ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e26	Representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Else-May Botten and Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has been licensed, have once again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 11 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Johannes Rindal, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e55	Johannes Rindal is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e67	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is asked by the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e72	For many years, there has been a desire from the Progress Party and the opposition in Stortingen to put in place better arrangements to honor our veterans. It hasn't been easy. It's been a long process. That's why I want to be the first to stress the joy that we've now been given different marks to honor the country's war veterans. It should basically be lacking, and there is no political disagreement about it either. It is true that in many other countries there are much larger and extensive marks to honor war veterans, and in many other countries the people have also been included in a special way. Now leave it. We have been made aware in the past 24 hours that for some reason the Prime Minister has chosen not to wish His Majesty the King's presence on the medal ceremony that took place on May 8th. It is regrettable – simply because the king is the country’s head of state, and is very strongly associated with symbolism. Many veterans who are out in the media today say that, after all, they're out in service for the king and the fatherland, not with labor party logos on the chest. It illustrates that this is not about party politics. It's about being in the service of a nation. Then it is also natural that the state is the one who honors and honors the veterans. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore very simple: Why did the Prime Minister not ask the King to be present? Why did not the Prime Minister, His Majesty, ask the King to participate in this very important mark?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e83	First, I would like to commend the representative Jensen for making it so clear that it is gratifying that we have now put in place many new arrangements that honour and express support for Norwegian soldiers and Norwegian veterans. But it's actually also more than that to enjoy. Not only have we put in place new days and new orders, we have also done things about concrete follow-up of the veterans – a separate action plan, better health services, better compensation and compensation schemes, a year's follow-up obligation for repatriated veterans, their own veterans and increased support for the veterans' organisations for their important work. So now a lot is done on many fronts, and more than ever before when it comes to following up veterans. Part of it has been that we have put in place a day of memory in the fall, where the royal house participated. We've got a vet's day in the spring, which for the first time was marked properly this year, and then we've reintroduced the War Cross with swords. The government made that decision a few years ago. The first allocation took place in 2009. What we've been busy about is getting to a division of labour, where we get expressed recognition for the veterans and support for the soldiers. However, there has also been a purpose for the accumulation and government – which is politically responsible, which takes the decisions to send people to Afghanistan, to send frigates to the Gulf of Aden or to send Norwegian pilots to Libya – to be very clear on our support and have the opportunity to express that support and recognition to Norwegian soldiers and Norwegian veterans. That's why we suggested that on the day of the vet, the head of defense would cover the medals, and that it would be a speech from the Stortinget, and one from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e92	I can only repeat the question, because I see that the Prime Minister will not answer. So a total accumulation is behind us, supporting our soldiers, who are in service for Norway. It does not stand in the way that His Majesty as head of state is involved in a solemn medallion. So I repeat my question: why didn't Prime Minister His Majesty the King ask to be present at this ceremony? Why did not the Prime Minister ask the King to participate? I would like to add one more question: Is it the case, as it appears in the media today, that the Prime Minister was warned against this by both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence? I would like an answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e97	It was the division of labour we agreed on this time – that it was the head of defence who was to cover the medals. It was also the same thing that happened last year, that it is the King of the Council of State who awards the medals, and that it is the head of defense who overreachs them. Then there was a speech from the Stortinget, and one from the government, at this event. So I have underlined today that I see that this has now created a lot of fighting. It didn't last year, but it did this year. There are some different events, some different frameworks around it, and it has contributed to a lot of fighting. I'm the first one to say that's a pity. For the whole point that we now get a vet's day, that we reintroduce the War Cross, that we get our own day of memory, is to create a united, united recognition for the veterans, and there, of course, the king has a place. The King is doing a fantastic job expressing support and recognition for soldiers and veterans. And then everyone now sees that the division of labour we had this year -- which is the same as we had last year -- is not good, and that's why we're doing it differently next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e104	There will be four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e107	The Prime Minister is concerned that a kind of agreement was reached on the division of labour between the Prime Minister and the King. In the dialogue with the majesty, it is not usually the case that the majesty requests to participate in various schemes. It's the opposite; it's the prime minister who asks the state to participate. The king's commitment to the veterans for many years would suggest that the king's place in such a mark is quite natural – and no one believes that the king should not play a role here. Even the Prime Minister has acknowledged today that the king should have played a role. So the question is, does the Prime Minister regret that he did not ask the King to participate in this selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e112	As I have underlined, it is therefore such that in retrospect I see clearly that this was wrong. For the purpose of introducing these days, it's just to give an overall recognition. And then there's become more attention to who covers the medals, the head of defense or the king, instead of getting attention around those who receive the medals, which are the main points. So we're going to do it differently next time, I'd like to underline it one more time. But I believe that, in addition to the king's playing a very central role – and to get recognition for it and space to play that role – it is also important that we in the government, and we in the Grand Duchy, take some of the most serious decisions we can make, namely to send young people into combat, in dangerous situations, are politically responsible for what we do in Afghanistan, in Libya and in other operations, and that we are also given the opportunity to express our support to the soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e120	I actually want to start by giving the Prime Minister credit for having turned this case around. For what the Prime Minister is quoted today, ‘this was completely wrong’, is very comprehensive for everything that was said by the government representatives yesterday. I also respect the fact that we do not refer from the talks that are going on between the head of state and the prime minister, for which there is a long practice, but we all know what was said, based on what was done later. I also think that the Prime Minister should go an apologies round with his Minister of Defense, because Grete Faremo was sent out yesterday, on radio, and had to say that this was the government's event, that is, the one that took place on May 8th, on the day of release and the day of the winter. It was wrong, and it was embarrassing that it was said, and it was obvious that this was not her opinion. So I think the prime minister should also go a little bit internally to clean this up. It would have been an advantage — and expressing self-criticism is nearby.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e129	First of all, I'm glad that what we're now discussing is themes that we couldn't have discussed a few months ago, because then there was no vet's day, there was no war shoes that neither the defense chief nor the king could distribute, and there was no commemorative day. Now we've got those things in place, and then we're going to discuss how we're going to manage those arrangements. That's good, and we're all concerned that they should be managed in the best possible way. But in line with the letter sent by the Minister of Defense to the Stortinget, we have been busy getting to a division of labour, we have been concerned that the Stortinget and the government will also express their recognition, and therefore we chose the division of labour we did this year. But it's quite obvious that we're going to find other work distributions next year, so we can avoid this fight. But anyway, we should be glad that we've got these tools to recognise the soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e137	It is important that this debate does not overshadow the allocation. It was a worthy and beautiful mark May 8th, which was worthy of those who really forged the honor that the nation has given them. That's why I'm glad the Prime Minister admits the wrong thing, because he said this was going wrong, this was going to be stupid. But there is reason to ask questions about whether the Prime Minister has understood the difficult situation he has seen His Majesty the King in. Because it is clear that when the Prime Minister takes up with the king that he does not want his participation, then it will be impossible for the king to say anything other than that he agrees with. So my question is, does the Prime Minister understand that he has seen the king in an impossible situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e144	Like the King, I'm concerned that he should be able to have dialogue with Prime Ministers. He's had it with prime ministers all over the year, and he's still going to have it, and the king is the first to be concerned that it happens in confidentiality. So am I, and I fully respect it. That's right, as the king says, there was a consensus that we added up to that division of operations. Then I have stated that the dispute that has now arisen underlines that we should choose another form next year, or on the next occasion, where the king is also present, that he is participating and presiding over the array of these medals awarded by the King in the Council of State. In addition to that, I do not think it is right – for the sake of that dialogue – to address the details of this. It is vital that everyone sees that we should develop these events into even better events in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e151	It is not the first time that the Prime Minister stumbles in relation to both parliamentary practices and constitutional practices, and a little new principles are created for both the functioning of the Constitutional Monarchy and parliamentary practices. That's why it's a little exciting to hear what the prime minister really has to do with our constitutional monarchy. If it is such that the Prime Minister considers that the role of the chief chief of defence, which the king has as the top general and one of the two four-star – as far as I know – the generals we have, should not be important to the king, what role does the prime minister see as having in a constitutional monarchy? What role does he think the king should play if the Prime Minister is to play the roles that the king has had as a symbol until now in the Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e156	As the country's head of state, the king has a very important role to play as a uniting symbol for the country by representing the country abroad and representing us here at home, and he does so in an excellent way in many areas. It's about the defense, but of course it's also about a lot of other areas of Norwegian society for which the king is head of state. That's good, that should be done by the king, and we should facilitate that. It's actually what we've been doing, and it's just giving the king new opportunities to do that role. The fact that we've set up a day of memory gives us an opportunity for the royal house to participate there – that's good, we're all happy about that. The fact that we have reinstated the Cross of War – and that is the government's decision – also allows the King in the Council of State to assign it. We have the audiences, and then we've come to the conclusion that it's very best that the king also makes the outreach of the War Cross on later occasions. All of this helps to give new opportunities, new platforms, for both the king and political Norway to highlight support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e161	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e164	I'm going to talk about something other than the king, about something that affects almost every single Northman in the course of life. Every third person in Norway suffers from cancer during life. 26 000 people are diagnosed every year. It means cancer affects us all, either because we get sick ourselves, or because someone in our family, or friends, gets sick. Last year, the Right 19 promoted concrete action on what we could do to improve the supply of cancer in Norway. Cannabis use in Norway is lower than in many other countries. In this area, time is not a matter of money; time is primarily a matter of life and health. Arne Barsnes waited five months before he got the diagnosis of cancer. He died – and a cancer specialist said he would be alive if the diagnosis had been made earlier. Anette Nilskog, the mother of two children from Stavanger, had to wait four weeks for diagnosis and another few weeks for treatment. So these aren't just single examples. The Health Inspectorate says that there is a high risk that diagnostic delays and mess lead to loss of life and health for patients in Norway. In Denmark, a 48-hour period has been introduced to diagnose cancer. Relatives who have lost their loved ones have launched a campaign to achieve this 48-hour deadline in Norway as well. We support it in the Right. It also supports the Director of the Health Authority, but the Minister of Health will look into the matter and have sent it to the Directorate of Health, who has already said that they believe this is a poor use of resources. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will he, in the same way that the Danish civil government ensured a 48-hour period for cancer diagnosis, ensure that there is a right for patients in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e177	Cancer is one of the most serious health problems we face in Norway today. Not least because we live longer and longer, more and more people are getting cancer. It's twice as bad when people have to wait to get a proper diagnosis, both because we know that it increases the dangers of cancer when time goes by, it reduces the possibility of successful treatment, and because it's a mental strain for people who may have cancer, to go and wait for a final diagnosis or wait for treatment. So it's obviously important to do something about it. Luckily, this has been a good thing over the years. We treat far more cancer patients than before, we have much better treatments. A few decades ago, half of those diagnosed with cancer were dead after five years, while today about two thirds of those diagnosed with cancer live after five years. This gradual improvement takes place every year. We're busy doing three things: one is continuing to expand cancer treatment to treat even more patients. The second is that we actually have bad numbers on how long people have to wait before they get a diagnosis. That's why we've asked the Health Directorate to provide good, transparent figures -- they'll come in a short time. Then we know more exactly how big or how small this problem is, it's a prerequisite for doing something about it. The third is to draw up guidelines for setting individual deadlines for the treatment of cancer, as well as the deadlines applicable in general. How tight the deadlines will be, we will get back to them, but at least it is so that we have asked for proposals for our own guidance deadlines for diagnosis and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e186	It is true that in the field of patient rights, the Workers' Party has had a tradition of being more of a brake block than a party that has gone ahead. The patient rights we have today are adopted by civil parties and strengthened under bourgeois governments. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the rights are clear and clear in an area where getting early diagnosis is a matter of life or death. The other thing that matters is that you really know what the waiting times are. So there are waiting times for cancer treatment, even if a department director in the Health Directorate said they would not publish the waiting times because it was not possible to show that we had waiting times for cancer treatment. My question is, then, in addition to giving a 48-hour patient's right to diagnosis: Do you want transparency about the actual waiting times in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e195	The question that Solberg's representative is raising, we're already doing something about it. We've asked for numbers. During June 2011 – next month – we will get for the first time complete, total waiting times for the treatment of colon cancer, lung cancer and breast cancer. That's weird, we haven't had this type of number before. We've had single numbers and single examples, but we haven't had complete overviews. I think that is an obvious weakness, which we are now doing something about. So it's almost obvious that we can publish good, whole numbers. Then we'll get an overview of how big the problem is. It is quite obvious that there are single examples of people waiting too long, but it is important to know how extensive that problem is. We have asked for proposals on how, if necessary, we can make deadlines beyond the deadlines in place, so that all those in need of health care are given an individual time limit for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e204	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e207	Experience from Denmark suggests that it is not until top political management is strongly involved in these kinds of issues that these types of schemes, both with diagnosis within 48 hours, diagnostic centres and clear rights, are put in place. If one does like this government and leaves it to the bureaucrats in the Health Directorate, it's never going to be a reality. What the Minister for Health says about waiting times is totally uninteresting for Norwegian cancer patients who are actually in a situation where they should have and wait for cancer treatment. If I get prostate cancer, it's not interesting for me to know how long a prostate cancer patient had to wait last year. That's the kind of number the government wants to publish. What the government refuses to publish, and as the health minister rejects, are the actual waiting times for cancer patients, the time each cancer patient can expect to wait, in order to choose treatment where there is the shortest waiting time. The Minister of Health said no. Why can cancer patients, like other patients in Norway, not be allowed to know what is expected waiting time in their area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e215	The most important thing we do is to treat more patients. That's what we're doing. We've stepped up and treated more patients than before and are going to treat even more cancer patients. That's the one thing we do. The other thing we do is we get better numbers. The Minister for Health will answer these questions later. Just how the figures are to be published, she gets to explain in detail, but it is vital that we now get for the first time proper, comprehensive figures on various cancers, how long people have to wait for diagnosis and treatment. The third thing we do – and that is a political wish – is to see if we can make even stronger and tighter rules on deadlines. So we're going on in these areas, both by expanding treatment capacity, by producing better figures and, in addition, by looking at whether we can create more stringent deadlines than we have today, with a general provision that those in need of health care should also set a date for treatment. The question is whether we should now set a limit for cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e226	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e229	Now the Danish model consists of two things. The first is a right to diagnosis within 48 hours and a right to have accomplished all that you need to get the final answer, in a month's time. In Norway, patients go month-on-month and wait in uncertain terms. From a professional point of view, it has even been suggested that up to 1500 people a year get cancer that becomes incurable because they have waited too long. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal that we should introduce the Danish model, which the Danish, bourgeois government has implemented with great luck, into Norway. It is a proposal that is being discussed this spring – now in June. This is not just a proposal, this is a proposal that is about people of flesh and blood. This proposal is good. Will the Prime Minister set aside the prestige and say to his party traps in the Chamber that they should support such a proposal when it is discussed in June?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e236	What we know is that there are too many cancer patients waiting too long, both for a diagnosis and for treatment. We'll do something about that. One thing we want to do with it is figure out how many actually there are waiting. That someone waits for months, we know, but we don't know if it's typical, if it's common, how many there are. That is why we must at least get it straight. The second thing we do is we make sure that more people can be treated faster. We are now in dialogue with the Health Directorate about, and in the case of how, we should set deadlines for processing. I think that is an important professional question, so I think we really need to have some professional dialogue – look at the Danish model, look at professional assessments of different models and then come back with the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e245	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e248	That's about. A year ago our health surveillance said that cancer treatment in Norwegian hospitals is too high a risk. They warned strongly. What they also said was that delays in diagnostics are the foremost risk factor. For those people who go and have not been diagnosed, but have been told that they may have cancer – that is a danger to it, they have symptoms of it – this period, not knowing it, is the worst. That's why it's incredibly good, what Denmark has done, to introduce the 48-hour diagnostics deadline. We know this professionally. This is what the State Health Authority knows. Other countries have decided, through professional assessments, a 48-hour diagnostic deadline. Why in the world does the government have to investigate this even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e253	Firstly, I would like to stress very strongly that we all know people who are in the situation that they are waiting for either a cancer diagnosis or cancer treatment. Both parts are very demanding situations to be in as a human being, and it's twice as bad that people have to wait, both because it can actually reduce treatment and increase the dangers, and because the waiting time itself is a heavy burden. So we want to do something about that. The most important thing we do about it is to increase treatment capacity – we are doing that – but also the quality of treatment. It's good to know that while it used to be that the majority died if they had a cancer diagnosis, it's now that 2/3 survives a cancer diagnosis and lives good lives many years after they've had a cancer diagnosis. That's the most important thing, and we have to get more of that. So I'm saying we're getting better numbers. Of course, it could have been done many years ago, by several governments. Then we also have to look at deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e264	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e267	Five months ago, the government party came to an important recognition. Together with the Christian People's Party, one firm stated that the non-profit sector has a self-esteem, and that it is a political task to ensure that this sector is preserved. We decided that ideal actors must give conditions other than purely commercial operators. And we pointed out in layers – the government party and the Christian People's Party – that it is urgent to establish more long-term and far-reaching framework conditions for the ideal actions. Last week, the number came for 2010. The evening post can show that there are 17 non-profit institutions that were laid down in 2010. HSH says if we don't see the developments now, turn around, the ideal sector will be gone within five to ten years. So there's a change going to be a hurry. What we see now is that it's the commercial players who win on today's regime. So we see the results of a red-green government, which has said that they don't want a grandmother on offer, but children's protection, the elderly and the homeless are offered. For the Christian People's Party it is especially important. The Christian People's Party expects a clarification and a new course in relation to the revised national budget. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the time now for a new course when it is necessary to secure a safe and good home for children, children with disabilities and the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e276	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Hareide that the ideal organisations and the non-profit sector are very important – it is an important part of the social capital in Norway, it is an important part of the Norwegian welfare society, that we have ideal and voluntary organisations that contribute in many different areas. Then, basically, there are at least two ways in which we can support the non-profit and voluntary sector: one through direct State aid/support – financial support – and the other through giving them special advantages when buying. I am concerned that in terms of the first scheme, that of providing direct support, it is the most targeted. That is why we have greatly increased support for the voluntary sector, including: by gradually stepping up – it's probably 1.2 or 1.4 billion. kr – in the case of compensation for VAT, which no other government has done before, and which means a significant increase in aid to the voluntary sector, directly to voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is that if there is a tender, for example: in a foster home, and a non-profit loses, it is usually because you have either a higher price — and then you will often choose the cheapest one, because then you can get more places — or because the quality is poorer. Nevertheless, we have said that we are busy using the access we have in the law, to reserve some bids only for non-profit providers. So we're going to do that in terms of e.g. foster home institutions. There we go out with a separate round where only non-profit institutions – non-commercial – can submit tenders for foster homes. If it gets there, it's great. If that's not enough, it will also be a separate round afterwards where commercial participants can also participate. We've done that now, and that's an example of how we're trying to make sure that we first make a round with the ideals and then maybe add up commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e285	It is important to note that when it comes to the bidding rounds we have today, there are many voluntary institutions that win the bidding rounds, but that still have to go down, either because there are too short periods or because there is too little coating. So I agree entirely with what the Labour Party's national meeting says in its question, where a government asks to provide an assessment of how non-profit organisations can get better framework conditions in supply processes. I totally agree with what the Labour Party's national meeting says here, because today's supply regime is helping to favor the commercial players. I have to ask the Prime Minister a question. Is he satisfied that we experienced in 2010 that 17 voluntary institutions were laid down and that we could risk everyone being gone within five to ten years? Is there a development that the Prime Minister is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e293	No, I want voluntary and non-profit organisations in Norway. That's why we're stepping up the direct support. I say there are two ways the state can support them: one is by giving appropriations – and we now grant more than before. The other thing we can do is say that when the state buys e.g. child protection services/federal homes do not receive the commercial permission to provide their services, we only reserve the ideals. As I say, we do it in some areas, but still I'm all concerned that the most important thing is that we get good deals for the children. So with regard to the round we are now announcing, where only the ideals can be offered, we say that if we don't get good enough offers from the ideals there, we also get to invite the commercial ones, because we have to make sure that we have good enough offers for the children – that must be the overall one, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e298	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e301	The Norwegian welfare model is that it is the ideal actors who have developed and started the welfare schemes in which the municipality and the state have come back, and they have lived side by side. It is the Norwegian model that is now under threat, because the ideals are threatened by closure because of the framework conditions they have. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear that it has a self-esteem to have ideal actors in the Norwegian welfare community, but it is a reality that, in fact, even those institutions that win bidding competitions still have to put down because of too low coatings. So in two of its resolutions, the National Assembly of the Labour Party says that these conditions need to be improved, and the government is asking to provide an assessment of how to get better conditions. And as the previous question asked, the majority on Stortinget have asked for the same thing. So the question is, when does the Storting get that assessment, and we get a case in the re-evaluated national budget that makes us get better terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e308	First, we've done things that improve the conditions of non-profits and non-profits, and we'll do more things. I know that several departments, including The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, is now working on several measures, and that's good. They'll be presented as soon as they're ready, I don't know exactly when it happens. What I'm trying to underline is that there are many reasons why some contracts, tenders, aren't extended. A reason is e.g. that we have now decided to use more foster homes. Then it's part of the old institutions that no longer have anything to do, simply because the children shouldn't be in institutions, they're going to be in foster homes. Then we have to shut down some of those institutions. It may be painful, but we can't let the institutions be more important than the children. So when we say yes to transferring children from institutions to foster homes, institutions are less needed, and that's often a problem. Another example is geographical redistribution, that we do things elsewhere in the country. Then we'll go somewhere else and start somewhere else. It can also be painful. So there's a lot of different reasons why some institutions are shutting down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e317	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e320	Nearly 200 children are in line for foster homes. The government shuts down institutions without having a real deal in place. Once again, we see that this government's aversion to private actors is stronger and targets children who need help. State Council Lighthouse stood in the hall last week talking about quality and quality of breathing in and out in a bid to be given to the young people who need it. For the Progress Party, children are more important than the system. The Progress Party believes that the private actors deliver the same quality as the other actors. Diversity and quality must be the main focus, and one must want all actors to be equalised. The Prime Minister himself now said that he favors ideal actors in front of private actors. Where was it of quality and diversity? Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister think that the 200 children in line for foster homes have time to wait for the government to see if the ideal actors have enough capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e329	Firstly, I am very much in favour of private actors in many areas, including in relation to e.g.: foster home. We're totally dependent on them. Second, I think we sometimes talk a little bit past each other. When we say private, we might mean two different things. One thing we can think of is private NPISHs – they're at least not municipal, they're private ideals. The other thing we can think of is private commercial. As I have said several times, I believe that both are important, but I believe that private ideas often have a self-esteem. That is why we have a code that allows us to sometimes reserve tendering for them. Now we're doing that for foster homes. But then we've said that if it doesn't fill up well enough with good enough quality, well, then we also invite in the commercial ones. The private and commercial foster homes currently constitute something like 80 pst. of the offer we are buying today, so there is no doubt that this government is using both ideal and commercial in the case of foster homes, because we need both to give a good enough offer to the children, and it is the children that are always crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e336	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e339	As long as the government adds up to a ranking of the offers, this will end up in a system debate. It is a pity, because this is an area where the child, the user or the patient must be at the centre and where the policy must be based on the needs of the user. The Prime Minister has so much been involved, and there is a perspective there that I want to raise, which is about the ability of users to choose, the ability of users to find the offer that is best for themselves. In hospitals, we think it is unproblematic. We have free hospital choice – at least as freely as we get it to, and have it as a goal. But within treatment, where there are major differences in offers, we suddenly have much more target management in terms of where the user is forced to go. For example, someone who was going to a child-rescue institution and wanted a small institution where the drug was not a problem was given. Not that. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e346	Firstly, I am a strong supporter of freedom of choice. For this reason, the Workers' Party has implemented freedom of choice for many years. It was the Workers' Party that started work on introducing free hospital choices. It was my previous government that introduced the fixedlegislation reform, which is free to choose. It was Gerhardsen, the Labour Party and SV Town Council here in Oslo, who introduced free home elections in Oslo. Real freedom of choice with regard to kindergartens came only when it was full kindergarten coverage. This may indicate that the most important contribution to freedom of choice is to get enough space, so that you can choose to have kindergarten or whatever else you want. So freedom of choice is what I am for. To bet on the community means more freedom of choice, and we have introduced it in a wide range of areas – this is point 1. Point 2 is that I now notice that there is a very interesting debate here, where I agree much more with the Christian People's Party than with the Right and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party and the government agree that we should try to facilitate ideals. We're too private and we're trying to make things right for them. We're discussing how we're gonna do it. The Christian People's Party and the government agree. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that we should not facilitate the ideals, but have a full bidding round with commercial and ideal side by side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e353	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e357	In January 2008, the Left, Right and Christian People's Party participated in pushing forward a rather ambitious climate agreement here in this Chamber, which was intended to cut emissions by 30 p.m. in 2020. Two thirds of this was going to happen domestically. The Prime Minister has confirmed this to me several times. The problem is that now it's been three and a half years, and nothing has happened. We're actually going in the wrong direction. Firstly, we see gas power both at Mongstad and Kårstø today go for full music without cleaning, where they both emit CO2 and don't pay for these emissions. In the 2011 budget, climate research was hard hit, and we have seen that the climate communication has been postponed. The only thing that has really affected climate change is the financial crisis. I don't want to blame the Prime Minister for that or say it's a national measure. The Prime Minister held a fantastic climate for his national meeting in 2007. At the national meeting this year, neither the word «climate» nor the word «environment» was mentioned once. He didn't spend a second on today's big challenge. The left is concerned about both the labyrinth's interest and the tenacity of the government. What I am asking the Prime Minister about today is: Can the Prime Minister confirm that the climate message will come to autumn? Can he confirm that there is no weakening of targets and schedules in relation to the climate agreement? And does he still agree that about two thirds of the cuts should be made domestically?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e369	I confirm that we are standing by the climate agreement, and part of that climate agreement is just that we are going to follow it up, present new messages and constantly evaluate, assess both objectives and instruments. So part of the climate agreement is that we continuously evaluate targets and instruments. We have to do that because there is a great deal of uncertainty about technology, about economics, about costs and the whole climate policy framework. This is why it is advisable to develop policies along the way. What we have announced is that the message will come to the harvest. It is clear that it is important when the message comes, but the most important thing is what is actually done. And so there's been a formidable increase in bets on, for example. public transport, rail. There has been a formidable increase in renewable energy investment. After all, Norway and Sweden — the Nordic region — will now have a large surplus of renewable energy and export large amounts of renewable energy, because we, among other things, want to do so. so massively rates on green certificates, which means that, at least in normal years, we are going to sell significant amounts of power to the rest of the world, which hopefully leads to lower emissions there, which I am in favour of. Then we've also stepped up climate research. However, in addition to what we do nationally, Norway does a lot internationally through, for example: The amount of effort we have on the forest, where we get the big reductions. It doesn't matter to the climate where the cuts happen. That's why we think it's important that we do a lot at home, but that the biggest contribution to emissions reduction is through what we do out there, not least through the EU's quota system and through what we do, among other things. in the case of the forest bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e378	I was not really very reassured by the Prime Minister's reply. In Soria Moria, Norway is said to be a leading country in climate and environment. In the evening post this week, there was a look up by State Secretary Lund, who said: ‘It doesn’t mean much what Norway is doing alone.’ We in the Left are anxious that Lund’s opinion is a ‘experimental rabbit’ in terms of what comes in the autumn’s notice and that domestic measures are stepped down. Before that, the Prime Minister was because we also have a moral responsibility and not only raised up an old Right-wing slogan about more again for the money, without the morals and the parts of it actually being included. Today, however, the Prime Minister is only going for ‘more money’ in terms of climate policy, I have to point out. What we're worried about is that Lund here becomes a ‘test rabbit’ for an approach that says that Norway doesn't have to do anything, because everything can be done abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e387	It is important to do things both in Norway and abroad. In fact, it is also important to do the cheapest measures and those that give the most effect first, because the climate problem is so enormous. It concerns all countries, and it concerns all sectors, and it is very, very demanding to get enough emissions. Then it's very important that the world put in the effort where we get the biggest cuts fastest. It is not that good climate policy is the policy that plagues us most. Good climate policy is the policy that gives the greatest cut, and then we have to put in the effort where we get the biggest cuts. That is why the size of the climate agreement is underpinned by the EU's quota system. It is absolute — without comparison — the most powerful means of reducing emissions in Europe. There we put a ceiling on the emissions, and then the companies just have to align themselves with that ceiling. So the companies that can cut cheap sell allowances to companies that have expensive cut costs. Then we get bigger and cheaper cut and a strong technology development. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e392	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e395	The Prime Minister boasts of the railway operation, and there is reason to do so. That's the cross-political agreement here on the Storting, and we just have to continue the offensive bet in the future. In addition, we need to bring down the car use, especially in and around our big cities. This has been a tab for the Left, both in government and now outside government. Now I noticed that at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party there was a good decision on public transport, and I am very happy that the Workers' Party is coming after. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does this mean that from now on we can see a much more offensive bet on public transport in particular, and expensive urban solutions, which are a huge challenge in our big cities, and can we already notice this in the 2012 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e402	It is very important to bet on public transport, and it is important for several reasons. It's important because it helps to improve the accessibility. We can't all drive a car, there will be too many queues, and none of us will get there. It is important for road safety and important for environmental reasons. Therefore, this government has approximately doubled railway investment. We have increased the investment on the railways, which is an important provision of public transport, especially around many of the major cities. We have increased the reward system for public transport in large cities, and we have generally seen the economy of municipalities and counties strengthened so that they can invest more in public transport. We are willing to go further in strengthening these mechanisms, look at what we can do to further strengthen public transport, for example. facilitate urban railways. What kind of instruments we're going to put in, I'm going to get back to, but more money is needed into the pot. I can't say too much about the state budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e407	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e410	I am very happy when I hear the Prime Minister stress that we need to put in place measures where we get the most benefit. I fully agree with that. Unfortunately, the government has pursued a policy that does not imply that principle in practice. In the February 16th Question Time, I raised a question about Alcoa, who wants to build a gas-based aluminium plant in Norway. Hydro, which is partly state-owned, is allowed to do it in Qatar with the government's blessing, but Alcoa is not allowed to do it in Norway because it will emit CO2. The CO2 clean technology, as the government knows, is not quite clear yet. In that Evening Post article, the government’s leading climate change officer in the Ministry of Finance, Kjetil Lund, says that we must not introduce measures that simply allow businesses to move abroad. So he argues against the policy that the government is in favour of. The question then is: how does the government ensure that we take action where they are the most sensible, when one at the same time refuses to establish itself in Norway and use Norwegian gas at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e425	The most important thing we do is just to use economic instruments, such as: to be part of the EU ETS. It ensures that businesses are able to reduce emissions by selling allowances while those with expensive emission cuts have to buy allowances. Then they're all occupied with reducing their costs, either by being able to sell allowances, or by being free to spend money on buying allowances. There is no doubt that the climate quota system in the EU, of which we are part, is the most powerful means of reducing emissions. In the case of aluminiumworks, gas power plants, etc., it is not that I sit and deal with it in Stortinget. People who want to do this have to search for – and deal with the direction that the government has drawn up. Otherwise, it is a challenge for me to deal with the Progress Party, because they have said that they will be in government with the Right, who want more cut in Norway than the climate agreement adds. The climate agreement adds up to approximately 15 million. tonnes reduction in Norway. The right was to cut over 20 million. tonnes in Norway. There is room for very few new plants in Norway now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e434	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e438	We had to go high on the track to get the government drawn in the right direction. The only party that was satisfied with the climate announcement the government presented was the Progress Party. So I understand that the Prime Minister and the Progress Party are in agreement here. What concerns the Right is that from the point of view of progress, the objectives of the climate agreement do not seem to be achievable. We have had four lost years in Norwegian climate work. The small momentum we can trace is due – as the Prime Minister points out – to policies designed in the EU and not by the Norwegian Government. The government's climate announcement comes first in the autumn. It will then be dealt with at Stortinget in 2012. Then it will have a budgetary impact from 2013. Then we have seven years left to achieve the climate goals that are in the climate agreement. The question to the Prime Minister is: does he know not only the goal of cutting emissions by 20 pst. at home, but also the target of doing so by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e445	I stand by the targets as they are formulated in the climate agreement and in the climate communication, I do. Then we'll have to submit a new message and then discuss whether we should adjust instruments, look at how we implement it. That we should have an ongoing evaluation, assessment, of how we follow up climate policy here in the country, is part of the climate agreement. If we had all the answers in 2007, we wouldn't need new flashbacks and new reviews of this. But it's not like there's a number of messages that decide. What determines is what we're actually doing. So we have seen a sharp increase in the investment in public transport. We have introduced the EU ETS, which contributes to significant reductions – about half of Norway’s emissions will be part of the EU ETS. We've done a lot to develop more environmentally friendly technology. Then we have followed up the climate agreement on the introduction of green certificates. This will lead to significant power generation in Norway and Sweden, probably so much that we need to export a lot of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e452	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e455	It is good that the Prime Minister is on the climate deal, as he said to the representative Trine Skei Grande, in terms of both objectives, timing and the fact that about two thirds of emissions reductions are to be made here in the country. We have a professional pick-up list, Climate Action, over 160 national measures. 30 of these measures are socio-economically viable, i.e. Norway AS makes money to introduce them. And that'll give you a decrease of 30 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. We know the Prime Minister believes in the quota system. If we estimate a future allowance price of NOK 350 per tonne, we can introduce measures that will reduce by $3 million. in addition, tonnes. Then we've reached half of what the climate agreement had as its goal. It's cheap. It's profitable. The Prime Minister has said that the most important thing is what we do, and not when. My question is, When will these measures come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e469	Well, many of the measures have already come, or are in the process of being implemented. Whether it is collective investment, renewable energy investment, new building regulations that impose very strict requirements on energy use in buildings, more focus on climate research or more on environmental technologies, all these measures are ongoing, implemented or imminent and are stepped up. So we're doing a lot of action. As far as climate change is concerned, we have had some assessment of it in the context of the national budget for the autumn. We will come up with a more thorough assessment of these measures in the Storing Communication, but I am probably afraid that the main picture there is that the cost of emissions cuts in Norway is significantly higher than what was used in the package of measures presented by Clif before the previous climate notification. It just shows that getting big enough cut in Norway is a challenging thing. It also shows that there is considerable uncertainty about economic development, for example: financial crisis, which has a significant impact on emissions cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e476	We go to the next main question, which is also going to be the last of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e479	Red-green politicians like to produce private providers of health and care services as cynical profit hunters. So at the same time, it's drawing a glamour of the public. We can sometimes get the impression that it's free to live in a public hospital, but we know that even a minimum pensioner has to pay about 80 pst. of their minimum public pension and are left with about NOK 2000 for clothing, footwear and babysitting. The whole of nine Health Ministers, most of them from the Workers' Party, have promised exclusiveness to all those who want it. But there are still 2,500 people who, against their will, are living with strangers. They are fighting about space for family portraits and a few personal assets from two different lives. This is a significant decrease in the quality of supply. Nevertheless, the municipality still requires full self-payment from both persons. The Advance Party and the Right have opted for a halving of the self-payment for those who live in double rooms against their will. Does the Prime Minister think that there can be a good solution, a solution that can help to end this unworthy double room problem, since none of the measures that his own ministers have taken have worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e488	The most important thing is to build more nursing homes and hospitals and, in addition, to bet on home-based services. In the case of lack of hospitalisation, there are two answers to that. One is building several hospitals. The second thing is actually to strengthen the home-based services, because we know that a lot of people want to live at home anymore. And we get more home help, more home care, it's twice as good: more people can stay at home longer, and we reduce the pressure on the nursing homes. We do both parts and are very well placed to meet our goals of several years of care and care, among other things. in order to ease the pressure on hospitals and because there is a lack of hospital facilities. Then we are expanding many new nursing homes and homes – largely in line with the plans we have put forward – and also helping to increase the number of single rooms. With regard to the issue of self-payment, there is a maximum today. I don't remember the exact percentage, but it's a percentage of income. So there's a maximum today. Municipalities are free to set lower self-payments than that, and the municipalities are of course also free to set lower self-payments if some live in double rooms against their wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e499	I note that the unworthy double room problem does not find its solution with this government. But when we get to it with our own payment: in 1989 the Progress Party received a bottom-up deduction of NOK 6 600, and since that we have had a significant price increase, but there has been no change in the bottom-up. The foot care, e.g., costed in 1989, gives you hardly four toes for today. Will the Prime Minister be involved in increasing the deduction on the own-payment basis, so that old sick and nursing people can have something more left for their personal consumption and we avoid that nursing homes appear to be a modern poor house?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e508	So it's a maximum today. It's, as the representative says, a free amount, a basic amount, you can subtract. I do not know when it was last adjusted, but it is of the type of rates that can of course be adjusted. I dare not stand here and now promise that it will be, but of course there is one theme that we can look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e513	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e517	I hope at least that the Prime Minister can agree that it is unworthy for the people who are living together in double room against their will, to have to share space in the final phase of life with people they don't know, and fight, as Hunter Gåsvatn said, about a few centimeters to get their family pictures hung up, and that these are conditions that you can't be familiar with in Norway. It's not like that, unfortunately, it's just these 2,500 that are involuntaryly housed together in double rooms. In Trondheim, in the red-green exhibition window, the rapporteur introduced a new concept called ‘continuance’. So they're asking for money from the state to build a single room, and then they're sitting in a single room, and they call it a densification room instead. Is the Prime Minister satisfied that a new concept has been created in Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e526	I'm just satisfied when we fully reach the goal that everyone should have a worthy residence, and that those who want it will get exclusive. Once again, this is an area where great progress has been made in recent years. The one-room coverage is significantly higher than it has been in the past, and we've come very far. There's every reason to enjoy. So I know that there's a skinny comfort for those who still experience that they don't get exclusive when they want to, and that's exactly why we've increased the grants for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes by 40 pst. It happened from New Year's, just to get a further boost in the development of nursing homes and homes, so we should be able to do something about the problem there is that someone still lives in double rooms when they want to stay in one room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e533	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e536	In fact, the preliminary KOSTRA figures show that the coverage of the single market has fallen in the last year. As is the case, more than 2,500 older people still live in double rooms in hospitals, and the workers' party-run Trondheim is the worst of the city municipalities. In addition to having 121 double rooms, they have introduced these so-called densification rooms, where they force older people – against their will – to live two people in a room designed for one person. One who lives in a nursing home in Trondheim today pays an average of 115,000 kroner a year in cash to live in a nursing home. Does the Prime Minister believe that it is reasonable that when a person is forced against his will to live with a wild stranger, he should pay the same self-esteem as a person in, for example. Bærum municipality, guaranteed to get exclusive in a nursing home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e543	The main picture is that we have received a significantly better offer, but that is not good enough. That is also why we have stepped up heavily and, at the latest, now from the turn of the year, increased subsidies for the development of nursing homes – I think it is about 900,000 kroner per hospital place, 40 pst. increase. As we increase the earmarked state grant to hospitals as much as we do, it is precisely in recognition that we see that the expansion must take place even faster both to meet an increasing need and to do what remains when it comes to wanting to enter. Different municipalities with different political colors struggle to get exclusive to everyone, and that is also why we increase support for all municipalities in terms of exclusive rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e548	Laila Bavøy – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e551	I don't know which reports the Prime Minister has read in the last few weeks, but at least I've read a Fafo report from April this year, which says that the service provision to older people over 80 years has been reduced, and that the growth in the number of new annual works has essentially fallen to the new young users. And a lot of people don't get the help they need. There is a great shortage of sick places in particular, and there are municipalities that have too little capacity and too little competence to provide the sick with a decent and good offer. The guarantee of dignity is broken every day in some places in the country — not everywhere; there are also good examples. But the picture is that it goes the wrong way. The fact that the Progress Party makes proposals and places them on the agenda, I think, is great. But isn't it a little embarrassing for the Prime Minister that it's just going the wrong way, and that, as an opposition, we need to find creative solutions to try to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e558	I have not read the Fafo report, but the government itself has explained that the strong increase we have had in the number of years of care and care, has also greatly contributed to improving the supply of those who are called young users, i.e. people under 67 years of age. There could be a multi-functional disabled person, it could be traffic damage, there could be others who need help. It is good that we have had more annual work in care – much more than before, a stronger increase. That's good. But once again, it's not that even though we've had a huge increase in the number of annual works, we're in goal. We're glad we have an increase, but we see that we need more. That's exactly why we've increased the earmarked grants, and we've increased the revenues of the municipalities considerably, so they can hire more. There is a significantly stronger expansion of this now than under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e565	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e577	There is one change in the set-up of the question list, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 8, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e592	‘In the Nordic countries, they say no to the guest student guarantee for students. These are students who want to go to high school that can offer sports lines that don't have Northland. These are applications for offers established in ordinary secondary schools. As a result, students in the Nordic countries do not receive the same offers as elsewhere in the country. What does the Council of State think about the treatment provided by the Nordic countries to their school students, and will the Council of State intervene to ensure that the county provides a guest student guarantee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e604	Youth who have undergone primary or equivalent training has the right to three years of secondary education. This right applies initially to the county where you are registered at the end of the application period. Youth applying for Vg1 shall indicate three alternative training programmes they wish in order of priority. They're entitled to one of these programs, but there's no room for one particular school. After studying Vg1, two years of secondary education in a programme area based on the education programme chosen but not entitled to the priority programme area. The programme areas offered for the second and third years depend on the offer made in the county. Thus, the counties are to a large extent required to meet the students in terms of their desire for secondary education, but they must also take into account national objectives and the need of society for higher education in all educational disciplines. I would also like to point to the scheme that some offers in higher education are country lines or nationwide offers. This is the offer that is just the basis for having in one or a few states. These offers are open to students to apply wherever they live, and applicants from all over the country are treated equally when they are admitted. The state finances the landlines, while the nationwide offers are financed by the county municipalities. In addition, counties may choose to buy places in other counties and/or to sell places to other counties. This is to a relatively large extent done, but the extent of this is up to the county authorities to decide for themselves. It is also up to the county councils themselves to agree on the guest student settlement in such cases. I think it is very positive that the county councils cooperate in various ways so that the students get the best and broadest offer possible. However, I will not impose any obligation on them to provide a guest student guarantee in addition to the arrangements that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e621	I would like to thank you for your answer. I guess that's what I expected. Then I will follow up with the minister. It is just as the Council of State says about how the legislation is. And that we cannot go into and intervene in democracy in the Nordic countries, I understand. But does the Council of State not see that there will be discrimination as it is now? Can the Council of State be open to lawmaking free schooling, so that we can avoid getting any difference between the states – some states are bad, and some states are better – so that there will be equality no matter where you live in the country? Will the Council of State now – hopefully – present a new law that will make everyone equal, regardless of their place of residence in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e630	I believe that free choice of schools across borders across the country would lead to some challenges that could be very demanding for the states to deal with — for example. in the case of capacity planning, and e.g. in relation to the students who, let's say, live in Oslo, but who only enter Finnmark. You can see a lot of problems related to it. Therefore, it is important that the states have some flexibility. I know that very many counties cooperate well to meet the students as far as possible. But I have no plans to present a bill on free school choice wherever you live, and a common characterization for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e635	Then I want to challenge a slightly softer model, as you don't want to use everything. We're a sports nation. We who are on the Storting, and people in the rest of the country can be proud of what our sportsmen perform all over the world, in all kinds of sports. The problem that I'm addressing concerns sports lines. Would it be possible for the Council of State not to look at the total free slip, so to make arrangements for sports lines, which are not available in each state, which make it easier for students living in the districts to move away so that they have equal opportunities to reach a sports career and do a good job for the nation of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e644	I don't understand what kind of other challenges it's going to give. I just think I want to make one call. I know that it is demanding for the counties to ensure that they have good breadth in the offer of advanced training in their county. And especially for a state like Nordland, which is a decentralised state, it is demanding both to try to meet the desire for students to live at home while they go to high school — it is quite essential to complete and thrive while going to school — and at the same time to have a good range of offers. I don't want to go further than to encourage the states to cooperate, so that the students' first choice can be met as far as possible. But this is a question that ultimately has to be decided locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e655	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Finance: ‘In the Questionnaire on 30 March, the Council of State did not grant deductions for the part of wages and salaries paid in cash to foreign seasonal workers. This is unreasonable and creates many practical problems. In order to be deductible, the cash part must be reported and reported to the authorities. The high season is fast approaching, and cash is a legal means of payment in Norway. Has the Council come to the conclusion that the cash part can be spent as long as it is under the law for NOK 10 000?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e664	As explained in the answer I gave on 30 March of this year, the adopted arrangement aims to reduce the use of cash means of payment. The reason for this is that we believe it is important to reduce several types of financial crime, not just tax evasion. The scheme also has a broader purpose than to provide the authorities with control over some items of deduction, such as: wages and salaries. The scheme has its background in a proposal from the Tax Avoidance Committee, NOU 2009:4 Measures against tax evasion. A majority of the sample would have a wider ban on the use of cash. A minority considered that the scheme now adopted with deduction was a sufficient measure to limit the use of cash by traders. In the solution now selected, cash is still legal tender in Norway. In this context, the payer can still choose to make a larger settlement in cash, but with the consequence that the right to deduct is lost. This was explained in more detail in the bill to which the Stortinget joined. It is based on both the Tax Act and the VAT Act that income deductions or deductions are to be made only when the payment is made via bank, etc. The exemption for payments less than NOK 10000 applies only when the total payment is below the amount limit. What is considered to be a payment for the application of the limit is also specified in the Law. For pay benefits, provision is made for all payments made for the same year to one person to be considered as a total payment for the purposes of applying the threshold. This is the law as the Storting has adopted it, and that is this Tax Act now relates to the follow-up of the scheme. A solution in line with what the representative asks for must, where appropriate, be achieved by amending the relevant provisions of the Tax Act and the VAT Act. As I explained in my reply on 30 March this year, I see that the scheme can pose some challenges, because established payment procedures need to be revised. As such adjustments have been implemented, I think the scheme will work well for most, including agricultural employers. However, I would like to ask the Tax Directorate to focus in the future on whether the scheme involves practical obstacles in the pay field that cannot be compensated by relatively simple measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e677	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the Minister of Finance will ask for it to be followed up. The deduction is good enough in addition to the NOK 10 000 that the Stortinget has decided, but this is the cash part that goes to non-residents, such as the rest of the world. may have to wait one month for an ID card and wait for it to be implemented in practice. As a result, too many of them have to get a small amount of cash just to survive. This isn't just about how many there are, or how big the problem is. It's a principle. We still have cash in Norway. If the Minister of Finance wants to liquidate cash completely, he should rather take that discussion than refuse to receive real expenditure. What I'm told about today is that now the arrangements are being developed where you borrow money, you pay back loans, and then you take the whole amount as a transfer via the bank. It must be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e686	I have no plans to liquidate cash as a legal means of payment. Rather, I have in a completely different case, a little further north of the country, said that cash is legal tender. That means that people can both put money into the bank and take money out in cash. Then I see that there may be practical problems, as the representative Gundersen here is in. Now the law has been passed, and that means that for the season we're going into this year, the law we've now passed will probably have to apply. But I'll keep the possibility open to make adjustments if it turns out there are insurmountable or very difficult practical problems. But I assume that after a certain drive-in, this system is going to work very well. I'll take a little reservation if it turns out there are very special problems that we haven't thought about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e693	Insurmountable problems it will hardly create. There are always solutions to these questions, but the question is whether those solutions are lucky. I note that the Farmer indicates that there will be more problems with black work than less. The case a little further north illustrated that cash is actually useful, especially for non-profit institutions, and I understand that the Council of State will not take that fight. We have a much tighter code than, for example, one. EU – with NOK 10 000 compared to EUR 10 000. I really just want to appeal to the common sense. I take it that the Council of State will at least look at this in advance of next year's season, and then I think we will have a change of legislation, so that the cash part can be spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e702	Only two short notes at the end. First of all, this is a matter that has been going on for a while. There's been an investigation, so you've had a reasonable amount of time to adapt. It is probably also true that many of those who now come from abroad and work, for example. in the agricultural industry, people who have a longer-term employment relationship — to use that term. I think it would have been possible to adapt in advance, but I will follow and apply common sense if it turns out that there are practical problems you have to solve in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e707	The size now goes to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e714	This question, from Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister of Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e717	I have asked the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In the United Nations on 4 May 2010, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Eidsdal strongly states that they become the tax of bankruptcy, and the rent tax is one of the reasons. He now needs to plummet the plant and reduce production in order to adapt to the land-interest tax limit. We see several similar examples. On the Little Power Days of the Guards, the State Council promised to look at the basic interest question. Right wants to raise the land-interest tax entry point to 10 MW to exploit the resources of the watercourse and the investments made. Does the Council of State support this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e726	Hydropower production is potentially a particularly high yield, so-called rent. This is because the production of hydropower is based on the exploitation of a scarce natural resource. Thus, a properly designed tax on interest on land will not affect the investment decisions of power companies. Then a project that is profitable before tax will also be profitable after tax. This suggests that land rates should be taxed as much as possible before using other so-called distorting taxes. Therefore, the primary interest rate tax on electricity plants is initially a neutral tax which is not intended to affect investment decisions. However, in the Land Interest Tax System for Power Plants there is a lower limit of 5500 kVA. Electricity plants below this limit do not pay rent taxes on land, but cross-border power stations pay rent taxes on the whole of their production. The primary interest rate tax is not independent of production and income, but is determined – a little technical – as a normal market value of the output of each power plant in the year of income less operating costs, concession fees, property taxes and depreciation. In addition, a deduction is made for a free income designed to prevent risk-free returns from being levied on land interest rates. If the free income is greater than the profit, land interest is not paid. Thus, for power stations with marginal profitability, the rent tax will not affect the company's post-tax values, and thus the rent tax will not prevent the development of profitable power plants. It is true that the lower limit of the base rate tax on electricity plants provides incentives to adjust performance in order to avoid land-based interest rate taxes, by building less works than what may be socio-economically optimal. Various proposals have been launched. Raising the limit will not solve these tax-motivated adjustments. On the contrary, the effects of such adaptations will be reinforced as a higher limit will lead to adjustments in larger power plants. I therefore do not support an increase in the lower limit in the rent tax on power plants. Bottom deductions have also been mentioned as an opportunity to address the challenges asked by the representative. So the concession authorities are going to balance the overall benefits and disadvantages of society. Optimisation of resource use will also be part of such a balancing process. In fact, in order to avoid tax-based dimensioning of power plants, the best proposal is to remove the lower limit of the rent tax. However, on the other hand, it could have led to the creation of land-based interest-rate tax-payers on small-scale power stations that are not currently subject to the land-based interest-rate tax. Thus, the government has no plans to change the existing limit of 5500 kVA or to introduce deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e745	I thank you for your answer. This question was asked to the Minister of Oil and Energy because he created expectations when he was on the Small Power Days at Værnes. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance would come and answer on his behalf, but hope he will also take these concerns back again. Then I see that there is no consistency between what the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Oil and Energy says about the consequences of a bottom-up deduction receiving a basic interest tax. In the Technical Weekend, the Minister of Oil and Energy pointed out that the fragmentation of power plants into small parts would be assessed in a concession management process and thus did not lead to a concession for a power plant that was split up in that way. Doesn't this also mean that you can implement measures like Right-wing measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e754	The reason why the Minister of Finance responds is that tax is a matter of concern to the Minister of Finance. However, in order to comment on what the queryer was about to do, it is true that if a power plant is adapted to the lower limit or split up in contravention of what will be optimal use of resources, the concession authorities will be able to assess whether there is a basis for granting concession under watercourse legislation. However, it is the individual power plant that is the unit of calculation of the basic interest income. The concept of ‘power plant’ is also further clarified in the Tax Act and its related regulations, including what should be considered as one or more power plants. Therefore, a hydropower plant may, in a fiscal sense, consist of several power plants, each of which is the unit of calculation for land interest rate taxes. That's a complicated question. There have been long discussions, but we've come to the conclusion that what's now the system, with a lower limit, is basically the best that this system can produce at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e763	I thank you for your answer. In the right, the small-scale industry is considered a pioneer in business development in the districts. Unfortunately, the red-green government has done very little to create a good framework for this industry. The green certificate system was well negotiated when the government took over in 2005. Everyone has seen the lifting break when it comes to green certificate transitions. It is very serious when the pioneers in the small power industry say that they are taxed as a whole and have to adapt production to a tax regime. What would the State Council do to improve the framework conditions for the small-scale industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e772	First, a small note that concerns the tax question, and that is that whether it is a land-interest tax or other tax, it creates that you have a free amount or a lower limit, what is called a threshold effect, which is a demanding challenge in other parts of the tax system as well. So I'm aware that what's happening here can create some challenges. As far as the last point is concerned, the Green Certificate Scheme is the most important thing to do now to encourage better exploitation, among other things. of small power plants. It will remain to see the impact, but I have great hopes that the scheme of green certificates is a good answer to the question the representative is raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e779	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e786	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Norwegian pavilion at Disney’s Epcot centre in Florida has been almost unchanged since it was established almost 25 years ago. This makes it appear to be very immature, and we are presented as a nation and people in a way that is not real. This is a very important exhibition venue for Norwegian travel, and eleven million visitors to the Centre each year. It will cost approx. Twenty million. I'll get the pavilion cleaned up. The Council of State will ensure that the State can contribute 5 million. kr for this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e795	Today, Norway has neither ownership nor responsibility for the Norwegian pavilion at the Epcot Centre. The Norwegian pavilion was sold to Disney in 1992, after which Norway continued to cooperate with Disney by supporting the pavilion by $200,000 each year until 2002. The question of further financial support for the Norwegian Epcot pavilion was raised again in 2006. Then Innovation Norway and the U.D. supported a pre-project, which was intended to define the need for funding in order to put in place a new Norwegian profiling film, with the aim of financing the project mainly by Norwegian business operators with an interest in the United States. The need for funding was estimated at 18 million. kr. After a few rounds of private actors, the conclusion was that 12 million were needed. kr from the State, and after consultation with leading international film producers and with the tourism industry, inter alia. through the Market Strategy Council of Travelers, it was decided not to support the project further in 2007. Since then, Innovation Norway has produced a new Norway profile film in digital HD format for use in its marketing work abroad. This film is offered to Disney for use in the pavilion free of charge. However, this is rejected because Disney only accepts its own film productions or productions made by a few certified film producers. As of today, there is no estimate of how much a new movie will cost to meet today's Disney requirements for digital HD recording. In 2007, the estimate was 18 million. kr without the digital HD recording requirement. Therefore, there is reason to expect that the project will have a clearly higher cost today. In close cooperation with Norwegian travel and a separate market group for the United States, Innovation Norway is making demanding priorities in the choice of marketing methods to promote Norway as a travel destination in the United States. The market group agrees that the means of marketing are best used through the further development of online marketing in social media and on the website visitnorway, through television and radio productions and other press-oriented work in Norway and the United States, and not least through targeted processing of tour operators travelling from the United States to Norway. We are currently examining an application for state funds for a new film and a general improvement of the pavilion, but have not yet clarified that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e808	I have to say that the surprise is great about the answer from the council here, and not least about the contrast to the answer that former Minister Odd Eriksen gave Ulf Leirstein in a letter of 24 April 2006, where he, to the question of the Epcot pavilion and the film, writes the following: ‘I agree with the representative of Leirstein that it is important to use instruments in Norway’s profiling work that show an up-to-date and correct picture of Norway.’ He wanted to start a pre-project. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council not follow up on what a former Minister of Industry of the Workers' Party has said? And further, does the Council not see that it is important, in an arena where 11 million visitors are present in a market where Norway is already profiled, and should it be further profiled that the film being presented is up-to-date and produces Norway properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e820	The reply to which the representative refers was given in the middle of the previous assessment which, in 2007, ended with a conclusion that it would not go in. I have personally met with people among the stakeholders here – Disney herself – who have argued strongly that we should make such a film. What I reacted to is that they have a very tight framework for free competition and the opportunity to reduce the price of such a production. In fact, the budget is about the size of the budget for a Norwegian feature film, which I know well from the Ministry of Culture. It seems to me that a very expensive production of such a limited platform. The film from Innovation Norway that we have offered should cover the purpose. We have to ask, do we get more money back using it here or elsewhere, because we have to spend taxpayers' money in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e827	I fully agree with the starting point of the Council of State that we are going to spend taxpayers' money in the best possible way. If you get with private actors, as you did the last time this was established, in 1988, and we're starting at 20 million. kr, the government will contribute approx. Five million. kr – i.e. a quarter. For comparison: In a few days in Berlin during the Green Week, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Innovation, Norway, spent 5.5 million. kr on the days during the exhibition. Then we can ask the question, how do we best use taxpayers' money? This concerns marketing in a market where we can get a significant tourist flow to Norway. The father is there to actually lose tourists, and the possibility of profiling us as a nation can also fall away, because if you make it serious about turning it into a Scandinavian state, we lose some of what we've been talking about before, just that Norway has to profile itself as a travel destination. Doesn't the Council of State see that angle? Then we also hope the Council of State will get ahead of the matter in the department, precisely in view of being able to look at a contribution to this film.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e832	There are two aspects to this matter. One is Norway profiling, which I think we agree is important and for which the U.D. is responsible. It is also the U.D. that has previously been responsible for most of the state's contributions to Epcot. So it's the travel life initiative, and there it is that Innovation Norway's priorities in cooperation with the tourism industry are that we spend 5.5 million. kr per year on total marketing in the United States. So even with that contribution of $5 million. NOK of maybe 20 million. It would have eaten up one year's marketing budget in the United States. I'm still willing to look at it. This is interesting, especially if it can trigger quite significant private funds that we would not otherwise have received, for Norway profiling or marketing in the United States. That's why we haven't concluded a no to this application. We're going to be in dialogue with the actors, see what the cost is going to be, see if there's an opportunity to travel this private money, and then see if this is a good use of the money for Norway profiling and for marketing against travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e843	‘Sunnmørsposten wrote on 3 May that the trade balls in More and Romesdal have grown in search arts for the coming academic year. Nevertheless, the situation is that if the trade unions are to be able to expand their supply, this will go beyond the continued supply in the county. The fact that the country does not finance this supply means that a person will be dependent on technological equipment before these courses, but also that the continuing training will have a smaller scope in the county. Will the Council of State no be in favour of state full funding of the trade unions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e850	As is well known, in the context of the administrative reform, the Stortinget decided to transfer the financial responsibility for the vocational schools to the county municipalities from 2010, i.e. last year. However, in line with this, specialised schools previously funded by the Ministry of Knowledge budget were transferred to the county councils’ framework grant through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’ budget from 2010 onwards. Funds for specialised schools above the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare were not transferred as a transitional measure to the county councils’ framework grant but were retained as a special grant scheme managed by the Directorate of Health. Through the 2011 government budget, the Stortinget decided to return to the Ministry of Knowledge the allocation to the former vocational schools that were under the cover. 6A in the Private School Act, to ensure stable frameworks and their further operation. The background was that these are schools with a national impact field that is economically vulnerable, and as such differs from the technical and health and social vocational school services. For the other specialised schools, the county councils are responsible for the recognition of vocational school provision in the counties, which takes account of both local, regional and national skills needs. The principles governing the distribution of funds to county councils relating to specialised schools have not changed with the transfer to county councils framework. The appropriations for one year are based on the number of students two years earlier, and there is no reduced framework for the vocational schools from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. So this is how the state finances the vocational education through the county councils. It's positive that there is also a record of increased search for colleges in line with what we see in the search for universities and colleges. Increased search for both specialised schools and universities and universities poses a challenge with regard to the dimensioning of offers. In this context, county councils must make their priorities within their frameworks in dealing with increased searches for vocational schools. I am responsible for developing the vocational school policy and supervising compliance with the Fachschulegesetz. A system of recognition for new post-secondary school provision has been established in the National Agency for Quality of Education – NOCUT. A new National Board of Vocational Education has been established and further efforts are being made to establish better statistics and a system of consultation between relevant actors in the field of vocational education. However, I see that there are still challenges related to the management and development of the vocational school field when grants for vocational school education are included in the framework grant to the county municipalities. The Forum for Vocational Schools, the Voksenbildningsförbundet, Norske Fag- og Friskolars Landsförbund and the Norwegian Association for Remote Education and Flexible Education express concern that county municipalities will manage all vocational school education both the county vocational schools they own and other private vocational school facilities. However, given the current framework of vocational education, priority is given to and between vocational schools as a matter of budgetary priority in the individual counties. At national level, changes in funding and frameworks related to specialised schools will be a budgetary issue which has to be assessed in the government’s proposals for the State budget and the subsequent treatment of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e869	The answer from the Council of State shows how meaningless this funding model actually is. For it is that when the government has chosen a follow-up strategy, e.g. in maritime education, with a clear objective of increasing the recruitment rate of maritime education, the number of applicants is followed up. It was a political objective. Nevertheless, one then finances the training cycle based on search dates two years back in time, and then choose a strategy to get the candidate number up while one underfinances the same educational cycle. It shows that a person who does not manage the supply of colleges can actually make sure that maritime education has the potential to grow in the future. It also appears in Sunnmørsposten on March 3. One sees that 60 pst. maritime companies have difficulties recruiting tenants. This is the responsibility of the Council of State – one has chosen a funding model that does not work. What's the Council of States going to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e876	It is the responsibility of the government and the Storting to determine who has a primary responsibility for the vocational schools. As I said, the county councils are responsible for that. It was transferred to the county municipalities from 2010 through decisions taken. So the state finances this through a -- let's call it -- piece-of-price financing, which is based on the number of students two years before. So there will always be something that comes after, and what was two years ago will be a starting point for funding – an unknown form of funding in other higher education. So here's the thing about the county councils also seeing the value in the colleges and being able to prioritize these. In More and Romesdal, there has been a challenge. It is clear that there is a great deal of interest in the maritime vocational schools, but it is also important that the county councils take care of the health professional schools. So we have and should have a wide range of courses in all counties. The state, on its side, is putting in exactly the same thing as we did before the reform, but of course, we have an ongoing dialogue with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on the challenges it faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e883	The difference between the provision of vocational education and all other tertiary education is just the funding model. Governments have a financial responsibility for all other tertiary education through the State budget. It shows the real challenge in this issue. Does the Council not see that it is completely inconsistent to bet on getting more people to choose maritime education and consequently increase the intake of maritime disciplines, while not financing places? This automatically means that these spectral spheres, e.g. have to operate with old technology instead of a technological development on the same lines as what the students meet when they get out of business. I think the Council of State sees this challenge. The question is, why won't the Council of State solve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e892	Obviously, unlike the representative, I have great faith in the responsibility and ability of the county councils to deal with these issues. There will be two channels that it is important to apply pressure. One is the priorities of the county. It is not that it necessarily has to go beyond higher education. It is a priority issue in the county if you want to increase in relation to the starting point you have. The state follows up two years after, on each admission two years before, with funding. It is not that this is necessarily something that should be deprioritized from the county. It's the county council that's responsible for that. The second channel is that, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, of course, in any budgetary context in Stortinget, I will ensure that there are frameworks that are in line with what is desirable vocational training provision. Then it's great that More and Romesdal County want a lot of maritime education. We will soon come up with an expanded strategy for this, I can assure the representative – MARKOM, in addition to the technical schools. We think it is very good that in this county you are so busy doing a good job even in the subject schools. I'll do my part of the job, and the county must do its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e907	This is also a question for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘The Fagerberg Committee has just delivered its report on Norwegian research. The selection was commissioned to look at the relationship between resource efforts and the results of publicly funded research. How do the State Councils of the Fagerberg Committee see conclusions and recommendations, and in what way will she involve the Storting in the further process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e916	The Expert Committee on Good Goal Achievement in Publicly Financed Research, the so-called Fagerberg Committee, handed over its investigation ‘A more open research system’ on Monday 2 May. I now want to put myself well into the sample recommendations. The selection setting will be sent at wide consultation to all key actors. The government aims to promote a notification of research to the Storting during the current majority period, most likely in the spring of 2013. Of course, the attitude of the sample and the input of the subsequent consultation round will be addressed in the message. Proposals from the sample which have budgetary implications must be dealt with in the ordinary budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e925	I understand that the Council of State cannot handle the individual proposals here and now, and it will be interesting to follow the consultation. But there has already been a public debate over the past week that has gone on since the sample presented its report, and several of the issues are known. So it'll be of interest to hear how the Council of State -- we'll say more in principle -- looks at some of the recommendations that the sample makes. For example, it will. be interesting to hear if the Council of State supports the recommendation of the Selection Board that more funds must be allocated through the competitive areas and that more research time and resources must be directed to the most productive researchers in the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e930	In respect of a sample that has spent 18 months on a very important matter, I would also like to hear the views of the various actors on the issues and proposals raised in the sample report. Proposals which have budgetary implications, as I said, will necessarily have to be dealt with in budgetary terms. But we have already given a signal in the budget for this year that the government believes it is important to strengthen the so-called 'free project support' arena in the Research Council. Here we see with pleasure that the sample follows up our drawing. So I'm waiting, as I said, for further evaluations in the consultation round and, of course, I'm coming back to the Stortinge in connection with the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e937	The Fagerberg Committee points out in its report several weaknesses in the Norwegian research system when compared with other countries with which it is natural to compare Norway. A number of these issues have also been well known over several years, more investigations and public debate. Among other things, the sample points out that there is little cooperation between the public research system and the business community in Norway compared to, for example, countries such as Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, etc. It might be interesting to hear if the Council of State has some concrete thoughts about what we can do to strengthen cooperation between industry and public research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e944	Already by a previous crossroads in research policy, this government has not only proposed but has instructed individual higher education institutions to have their own cooperation councils with industry, just to get closer contact with business. One of the things that the Fagerberg committee has not done is to assess the research that is also being done in business. They have concentrated on research in the university and higher education systems. So some of my evaluations in the future have to be something more complete than what the Fagerberg committee is making sense to. But they give important input to the part of research that has to do with universities and colleges in particular. My responsibility is greater than that. Of course, there will be a greater responsibility in the government's research report, where we will include both the institute sector and the relationship with business. But I fully agree with the representative that it is important that there are good channels and good communication between our research and education institutions and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e953	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The majority of the government lots will cease to be the fur animal industry. This will have a significant negative impact on parts of District Norway, where fur animal nutrition is an important part of a value chain, as well as on the maintenance of jobs. What will the Council of State do to ensure the survival of fur animal nutrition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e962	As is known, fur animal nutrition has been subject to particular negative attention in recent years following the detection of unsustainable conditions in parts of the industry. To fix this, several grips have been made in recent times. I have made demands on the industry, which has now introduced a mandatory certification scheme, including: there is a requirement for all breeders to have more than one veterinary visit per year. Food surveillance has carried out a number of unannounced surveillance activities and has used stronger instruments in relation to unacceptably operated fur breeders. The Food Authority regularly reports on its activities in this area. I would also like to point out that a new and stricter regulation on the keeping of fur animals has just been adopted, which imposes stricter requirements on supervision and care, documentation, housing conditions, feeding and irrigation and breeding. I believe that the new regulation will help improve animal welfare for fur animals. With all the other measures in place to keep fur animals, I believe we have taken a solid step forward. The industry, which has gained new, more stringent requirements for the keeping of fur animals and its own certification system, must now demonstrate that they are able to comply with the new provisions in order to ensure the welfare of the animals. It is essential for the existence of the industry. The holding of fur animals is controversial in parts of the population, and the National Assembly of the Workers Party has voted in favour of a controlled closure of the industry. However, the government’s policy is not modified by a decision at a party meeting. Fur animals will be mentioned in the forthcoming report on agricultural and food policy. I aim that this will provide clarification and predictability of the framework conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e977	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I agree with what the Council of State says. Fur animal nutrition is an important part of the survival potential of the District of Norway, and not least for the survival of agriculture. That's about. 300 farms around Norway, and I think all counties except Oslo, Akershus and Finnmark have some kind of fur animal nutrition. Often this is family use, and that means a lot to the economy. It is true that the National Labour Party meeting is for a guided liquidation, but I also know that another government party, SV, is totally opposed to this. Then the Central Party stands more or less alone as a government party to defend this industry. I think we have to do everything we can to keep this industry running. I think the industry is serious, it does what it can, and with the new rules that have come, I really don't think anything more can be done. They're serious, the ones that run today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e986	To a large extent, I agree with what Mr Bredvold here says. There's been important grips lately. I think we should have respect for, attention and concern for animal welfare in all animal husbandry, not least fur animal husbandry. This is why many measures have been taken in recent years, and the industry itself has taken a real hold on the situation. We have, as I said, stricter regulations, and a certification system has been established with several veterinary visits. Not least, it is also the case that one of them ensures that it avoids any mishap in the food industry. So it's at the same time that in all animal husbandry there's some damage. It must deal with it as it arises, in a proper manner and in line with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e991	I thank you once again for your answer. What's important is that we give the industry room for improvement when it needs to – not just say no right away, but give the industry a chance to survive. I believe that we have given, and I believe that with the rules that exist today, the industry will have the right to life. This is a cheap industry. There's a little money going on over the state budget. Norway is recognised for perhaps the world’s best products on the market. And there are, as I said, many and important jobs around the districts, where getting a job may be difficult. When you look at the opinion, it's true that there are quite a number of people who are opposed to this industry, but it's only 30 pst. 60 pst. says you're too industry when animal welfare's in the high-seat. And the animal welfare we all agree on, so I hope and believe that the Council of State, in line with the Advancement Party, is working what he can to make the industry survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1000	It is primarily dependent on each animal owner and keeper doing the job they are required to do — ensuring the welfare of animals, proper care, proper supervision and good operation. So it's like this, as it's also stressed, that the public authorities have a supervisory system. The Food Safety Authority is doing a large and comprehensive job in the field of fur animal nutrition, with both alerted and unannounced visits, and we see that action is taken in this respect. The new regulatory and regulatory framework will ensure better animal welfare in itself, but it must be followed up. I am convinced that this will produce good results, but at the same time we must be realistic. As I said in my previous post, it will be that in all animal husbandry there may happen accidentally and arise diseases. It also does so in the fur industry, and then we have to be prepared to deal with the situation. Accident and disease levels are no higher in fur animal husbandry than in other animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1011	«A former retailer was thrown out of his childhood home, Vestre Hakkloa, in Nordmarka. He's a third generation small-scale user, and he's been fighting for 13 years to take over small-scale users. The State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food expropriated the property for the benefit of men. Now, both the question of expropriation and the question of the determination of compensation are finally decided by the Supreme Court. What will the Council of State do now to enable the former retailer to finally acquire the property?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1018	The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has spent a lot of resources dealing with Jo Arne Ødegård's application for expropriation of the housekeeper's place Vestre Hakkloa from Carl Otto Løvenskiold. Not only the question of whether the application was to be accepted or not, there have also been several rounds in the legal system as well as the validity of the expropriation decisions in the case as well as the purchase price that Ødegård has to pay for the property. I believe that the department has adequately and properly taken care of the interests of Ødegård. I show you, among other things: that the department applied to the law because we thought the court had set the purchase price too high. I am pleased that the law agreed with us, and that it reduced the purchase price from SEK 7.5 million. to 3.5 million. kr. This is a very significant price reduction. After many years of working with Ødegård's expropriation request, the question of discretion is now finally settled. This means that with definitive effect it is decided that the wasteland must pay Carl Otto Løvenskiold 3.5 million. kr for the property. The case is now in the final phase, and the state may demand to be put in possession of Western Hakkloa. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food therefore wrote to the State Agriculture Administration on 14 April this year and asked that the matter be followed up in the usual way. What the State's agricultural administration probably has to clarify first is whether Ødegård wishes to take over the site under the conditions laid down. The conclusion of a case which the latter may raise several questions. The Advocate General will therefore assist in the practical follow-up and closure of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1027	Thank you for your answer and thank you for your commitment. This case has many aspects to it. Legally, as the Council of State was also concerned, at least two. That's the question of home to expropriate for the benefit of the farmer. The second is the pricing of the property – and the understanding is finally decided in the Supreme Court in this last round. But then it also has a political/ethical side. The Husmannsvesenet is to a large extent disbanded, and one wishes that the housekeepers will be the owners of the places where they were in, as in the Nordmarka. That's why one has had the will to give a legal authority to expropriate property for the benefit of the farmer. This matter has taken 13 years – with a great commitment and use of a lot of resources: How does the Council of State estimate that it has taken so long before one has come to the goal of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1036	The description given by the representative Rudihagen here, I share. It is a correct description of the challenges raised by the case, both legally and not least financially. It is also the case that, politically, one has wanted to liquidate the housing service — it has been liquidated — and to provide opportunities for those who have lived on such properties to take over. In this case, the state has followed up the obligations we believe to be right politically, and has ensured that the property can be taken over by Desert. We have also followed up the economic aspects of the case – there have been a number of issues in this regard, which have now been finalized. I hope, even though it has been a long time, that there is an opportunity for a wasteland to take over, and we are now waiting for his clarification on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1043	Once again, thank you for your commitment to this matter. I have followed this case through these 13 years, and I feel in many ways that it has been a great wrong against Jo Arne Ødegård, since he was thrown out of his childhood home 13 years ago. The judgment does well for what causes the pricing, or understandably, however, it is a challenge – of course – for Jo Arne Ødegård to pay 3.5 million. kr for this property. So my final question is, what possibilities does the Council of State see for itself to be able to transfer ownership to Jo Arne Odegård for another and lower price, almost as a sort of compensation for everything he's gone through in these years? Is there any reason for the state to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1050	I get the question. It is a great challenge to travel a purchase price at this level – also for such an interesting property, to use that term, as Western Hakkloa is. I will not comment on the case and its contents. We have implemented the measures we think are necessary and have received a result that we believe is desirable. So it's that you also have to have cleanliness in the further treatment for reasons of principle. Here, wasteland must now determine whether it is willing to purchase the property for the price fixed, and he must also pay the costs that lie here. I hope and believe that it is possible. We reduced the price significantly in this process, from 7.5 million. to 3.5 million. kr. It should hopefully be possible for him to take over. In addition to that, I think it is wrong for me to comment on something more in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1057	Question 8 has already been answered. That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-11.ana.ud2466e1072	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
