ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e111	The formerly exempted alternate of the Eastfold County, Erlend Wiborg, has again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen from 13 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ida Marie Holen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e134	Ida Marie Holen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e153	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e169	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e185	It is a unanimous vote on the svalbard budget that is available from the Committee. In order to establish what the committee is unanimous in agreeing to, let me first say a few words about the objectives of our swallowing policy, such as: is: a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and the enforcement of the Treaty of the maintenance of calm and stability in this important area of conservation of the unique wilderness nature of the area of maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group; The line we lead in Norwegian swallow-bard policy is fully agreed upon. As I said, the Committee fully agrees with the objectives of the swallowing policy that the government has included in the budget. I stress that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic area of foreign policy in the years to come, and that will be very important for us. This is an area that we're coming back to more and more. I refer you to the message we now have for processing. The Committee was pleased to note that the government, inter alia: has extended the scope of a number of laws relating to the area, inter alia: the port and water law, competition law and statistical law, to include Svalbard and surrounding areas. What we are now committed to, with the strengthening of helicopter preparedness on Svalbard from 2014, by now stationing two large helicopters on the island group to replace today's system with a large and small helicopter, is important. A new contract is considered for the service vessel Nordsyssel, when it expires in 2012. This is very important when we see what is happening around the Svalbard area, and with the responsibility we have in this area, it is important to strengthen these services. What I would also like to stress and note is that local democracy works in line with the intentions that were debated in 2002. Local government has developed well and has become important co-players of government. We make things work much better when local democracy too is now really getting up. There's a lot of things that have to be done on the environmental side, of course, in the Longyearbyen itself, and it's now a pleasure to see that you've set aside a total of 14.6 million. kr to a new sewage treatment plant in Longyearbyen. The budget line for the valbard budget for 2012 has been proposed for 293.5 million. kr. This is an increase of nearly 27 million. kr in relation to 2011. It should also be noted that a number of grants are received from others, including: from the Ministry of the Environment, from the Staten Kartverk, from the Norwegian Polar Institute, etc. It is also gratifying to note that the University Centre of Svalbard has now shown very good results. It's not insignificant sums you transfer to this center, a total of 105.3 million. kr for 2012. It's a unanimous setting for the svalbard budget. The Progress Party has a note on the coal power plant in Longyearbyen, which I expect the Advance Party to justify later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e225	We will be supported by the post of the representative Nordtun, and we have, as the representative said, a unanimous attitude. In addition, we have a separate note that takes into account the application sent by the University Centre and City Company Longyearbyen for project funding for the CO2 treatment of coal from the power plant in Longyearbyen. With the unique position Svalbard has, and with the historic tradition of coal-fired power plants, it is hardly any place more natural to start such a project and to demonstrate the entire CO2 value chain, from the coal-fired mine through combustion and clean-up in coal-fired power plants. Compared to other major projects on the mainland, such as: The Mongstad project, costs here are debatable. So our call is that the Ministry of Justice is trying to find room for this application, so that you can be part of the big EU project that is about to fall into place here. So we refer to our remark in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e238	I have just a brief comment, first of all, on the proposals of the Progress Party. I am quite sure that the whole Storting has the same goal and intention to achieve this, even if the setting does not bear the mark that other than the Advance Party has this as its goal. I just want to say that at least this has Right-wing support, but I'm pretty sure the others also have this as the big goal. The rapporteur has gone through the setting and the importance and importance of Norwegian presence on Svalbard in an excellent way and has given a thorough account of consensus policies in this area. I have just a brief additional comment, and that's that the locomotive on Svalbard, at a time when this group of islands is getting more and more international attention, is the coal industry and where the situation is that Svea Nord is gradually running out, and then it requires a clarification of what kind of policies the authorities, the accumulation and government, have for further involvement in the direction of the Great Norwegian Spitsberg Kullkompani. So from the Right, we expect the government to come up with its attitude on what kind of ambitions they have in this area. It is despite all the supporting locomotive for operation, residence and presence on the island group. It has been historically, and there is little to suggest that this locomotive can be replaced, at least not in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e245	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e261	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 5, 6 and 7 are dealt with together – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e301	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e312	I had hoped to see the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Chamber when we debate the foreign budget, but we hope that he will come later. We're laying behind a year of great upheavals, of crises and of hope. Millions of people have stood up in the fight for fundamental human rights, for dignity and for justice. They have stood up against corruption and dictatorship. From the vegetable square in Tunis, via the Tahrir Square in Cairo to the Tagheer Square in Sanaa, the popular uprisings have started and led to many-year-old dictators no longer having power. In other countries, the struggle for freedom continues. Today, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights announced that a moderate estimate is that the Syrian authorities have been behind the killing of 5,000 civilians since March, and the High Commissioner asks the Security Council to bring Bashar al-Assad before the International Criminal Court for the criminal repression of demonstrators. Nevertheless, there is hope. Not least, it made a deep impression to hear the Nobel lecture of peace-laureate Tawakkul Karman, or rather, appell, on Saturday. I do not think its signal effect to Arab leaders and the population can be overestimated enough. After the Duma elections in Russia on 4 December, we also see strong popular protests. In a country with few traditions to pick up the streets, about 150,000 people, perhaps even more, have now participated in protests against electoral fraud, corruption and lack of democracy. Even when the Committee visited the Churches in mid-October, the first reports came that something was about to happen. Then Putin and Medvedev had again made a position change. On social media, people no longer accepted that the ‘tariff’ between the President and the Prime Minister should be the current way of doing so. At the same time, we see that the European Union and several Member States are facing major economic challenges, in particular, relating to sovereign debt. This crisis has not been created by the EU but by national states that have survived — borrowed overcapacity — and have not been willing to make the necessary reforms of retirement age, tax systems and public services. Right considers committed cooperation and participation as Europe's way out of the crisis. We therefore still want full Norwegian EU membership. Political and economic integration in Europe includes Norway. It is in Norway’s clear interest to contribute to this process, not only economically, through today’s financial instruments, but also politically, through full participation in Europe. The 2012 draft budget shows, in our view, that the government is still not sufficiently prepared to prioritise in line with the principles of an overall increase on the basis of Norwegian foreign policy involvement, and that Norwegian efforts should be targeted where it is most important and relevant to the Norwegian community and where Norway has a real opportunity and ability to make a difference. There is a need for a greater degree of realism and a clear focus on achieving the objectives of Norwegian instruments, opportunities and objectives in foreign policy. Norway shall have a strong and principled voice for universal human rights in the international system. This should apply in particular to civil and political rights, and it is extremely important that we use this voice now as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. The upheavals in North Africa and the Middle East in 2011 show that work on human rights and democracy can benefit. We believe it is positive that the government promises a stake in this field, but records that high ambitions are not followed up with sufficient resources. So in our alternative draft budget, we are proposing 100 million. to strengthen support for the High Commissioner for Human Rights and for human rights and democracy as a follow-up to the Arab Spring, in particular towards organisations and civil society. The right supports a high level of funding for development and assistance. But it must be a development and assistance policy that focuses on results rather than government's symbolic targets on the percentage of GNI. Development policy should have far clearer geographical and thematic priorities than the government’s proposals set, and should have as a long-term objective the need for assistance to be made redundant. By spreading violently, the government reduces the impact of Norwegian development policy. Moreover, the Norwegian debate on development policy continues to focus too much on the level of aid appropriations, usually as a percentage of GNI, as a feature of a good poverty reduction policy. The aim of any development policy must be the greatest possible development, not the greatest possible assistance. Achieving the ultimate objective of development policy also requires the development of more precise performance targets and the strengthening of control. Norway must impose stricter requirements on the recipient country for Norwegian aid. In particular, demands must be made for the development of democracy, good governance and the fight against corruption. Right does not want to provide budget support, or other direct support, to public authorities in countries where development is in the wrong direction. A prerequisite for receiving Norwegian assistance must be clear signs of democratisation and respect for fundamental human rights. We are particularly concerned about developments in individual countries, such as Ethiopia and Uganda, and will reduce Norwegian support for these countries. Norway is currently providing assistance to some 114 countries, according to figures from Norad. Norwegian aid is also criticised for being too fragmented and for having too small projects to keep track of. Erik Solheim, in his 1999 book Closer, points out that a much stronger commitment especially to initial education for girls has brought enormous changes to poor countries. I fully agree with that. But it puts government's depriority of education in an even stranger light. The government has received legitimate criticism, not only from the Right, but also from many organisations, for lack of commitment to education. Since education was withdrawn in 2008 from the government’s list of priorities for development policy issues, we have seen a clear decrease in appropriations. According to Norad figures, in 2010 only 6 pst. of the total Norwegian aid resources used for education. There's a drop from a low level of 7 pst. in 2009. Health and social sector figures show the same trend; 9 pst. in 2009 and 7 pst. in 2010. At the same time, there has been a huge increase in aid funds channelled into energy and the environment. While this field got 9 pst. in 2009, the figure has increased to 16 pst. in 2010. Education, especially for girls, shall be a priority in development policy and Norway should take an international, political and economic lead role in ensuring education for all. Right will give its full support and recognition to our soldiers in duty out and at home and to those who are today veterans. Norwegian soldiers do a very good job, often under very difficult circumstances. Every time the committee travels – especially to allied countries – we get back to the soldiers our praiseworthy words about how they solve their mission and contribute with allies. Let me first make a comment on yesterday's reports from a Secretary of State and an official's visit to the Canadian Parliament. When we experience that number in the order of 200 billion. kr comes to the table in the Canadian Parliament before in the Norwegian Parliament, suggesting that the ministry has learned a little from the round we had in the UK in June 2010, when the Committee drew the Minister of Defence into an open consultation with about. 80 consecutive follow-up questions because the government had presented too poor a basis and too little information to the Stortinget in connection with the purchase of four training planes. I would like to stress that it is extremely important for the government to provide correct and up-to-date information for the Storting. Regardless of whether the current figure is an expression of a so-called overall, technical adjustment or a real increase in costs, the department's communication is once again under any criticism and it is appropriate to create significant concerns. The cost information was provided in a reply from an official who explicitly states that he must be careful because this is not public figures. The financial year 2012 is the last of the current long-term period. The resource availability and economic situation of defence through and at the end of this year will have a significant impact on the achievement of the objective of a greater balance between structure, tasks and resources, while at the same time providing the economic basis for the next long-term plan. In its alternative budgets for this long-term period, the right has proposed a total strengthening of defence by 2.1 billion. kr. Appropriations at this level are absolutely necessary to achieve the objective of a balanced defence. We'll strengthen the defense by 530 million. kr in the 2012 budget. The representative Ivar Kristiansen will get closer to it in his article. I want to use the last seconds of my speaking time to point to the proposal we are promoting in the budget setting, namely to restore an acute and flexible mobilizable response capacity with rapid response capability and presence in the larger cities – an effort force that is supposed to have both training for sharper missions and faster response time than today's Home Security effort forces. The government, with the full support of the Storting over several years, has implemented a number of positive measures relating to veterans, but it is important that we now finally eliminate the unequal treatment that is too equal to harm, and injured, before and after 1 January 2010. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e363	The President must remember the speaking time. It applies to all. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e368	I would like to address one of the last things the representative Eriksen Soreide mentioned, namely the right proposal to restore what was formerly called HV-016 departments, in the big cities. In the media, we've seen that some people from the old HV-016 environment think they could have made a difference on the island. This raises very important questions of principle about the division of responsibilities between justice and defence. My question to the Right is: Does the Right mean that the HV-016 department should have had tasks other than that of securing objects? And: How does the Right see that the division of responsibilities is going to be between justice and defence, for example. counter-terrorism, and what fundamental divisions do Right form the basis for that sharing of responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e377	Of course, there is no one, at least from the Right, who has said that we can certainly know if anything would have made a difference on the island or at the government quarter. It's way too early to say anything about it, and I expect that the 22nd July Commission and the committee that are now working in the Stortinget will be able to give more answers. What we've been concerned about is that, within the framework of the division of responsibilities between police and defence, we have to have sufficient preparedness and capacity that the police can call for in a given situation. Today it is the case that the FSK Special Command has a dedicated mission to help, especially after the HV-016 was dropped. But then the situation is that the FSK is located on Rena, and part of the experience after what happened on July 22nd is that one would have faced a worse situation if this had happened elsewhere than in the central eastern region. What we want to recover is an easily graspable, flexible resource that can have tasks that can help solve the police's mission if the police ask for it. This does not mean that the division of responsibilities between police and defence should be different from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e388	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, said in his speech that the government has a far too fragmented focus in its development policy, and that development aid goes to too many countries. This repeats also in the annotation form in the setting, where one refers to 113 countries. There's too many of them. I would like to ask: is such a strong criticism and such a diversion must well cover much more than one or two countries? Can the representative give an example of any regions in which Norway should not provide development assistance, as we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e395	If the representative Solhell had read our excellent budgetary remarks in their entirety, he would have seen that we have also proposed this year to cut off all support for Latin America. We have proposed cutting off to Asia – with the exception of Pakistan and Afghanistan, where we believe it is important that we continue to maintain a presence. Almost all countries around us are doing the opposite of what Norway is doing. They are trying to reduce the number of countries for which classical assistance is provided, and they are also concentrating their efforts more thematically. This is something we have been asking for a long time because we believe it is important that Norway makes a real difference and makes a real developmental gain in the countries where we are present. The fact that we are present in 114 countries – which are thus Norad numbers – is something that has raised criticism not only from the Right but also from researchers and others who believe that this means that we are spreading our efforts too much. It is also the case that the OECD operates with an even higher figure on the number of countries in which Norway is present. But if we take Norad's numbers into account, it's 114 countries -- a number far higher than our neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e402	Very good in the post! I have one question: why does the Right want to reduce customs protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e409	It was a very short and concise question, and it's going to get an answer. As the representative Schlagsvold Vedum remembers from the trip we were on in the United States, we were among others. in a think tank, where they presented a ‘Commitment to Development Index’, where 22 of the world’s most important donor countries rank according to how they provide assistance. Norway is second place, according to Sweden, by those providing assistance. So we're very high up, and we're very happy with that. At the same time, we are in the last place in terms of trade. So we are the country of the 22 countries that are the most important donor countries, with the least open trade with poor countries. Just because development policy is so much more than assistance, because it's trade, because it's knowledge transfer, because it's so much more than the classic money transfer, it's important that we do what we can to help poor countries actually manage to achieve sustainable development. Then trade is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e420	The budgets we are discussing today well underpin the government's foreign and defence policy priorities. At the same time, the budgets illustrate how well we are here in Norway. While most of our European neighbours are struggling with high debt and high unemployment and cuts in their budgets, both for defence and assistance, we can increase the appropriations. We keep the appropriations for development assistance on 1 pst. of GNI. That means 800 million. kr more next year than this year. It provides room for strong efforts in key areas such as climate and forest, climate change agriculture and food security, education, civil society and the UN Woman. Together with the Christian People's Party, we in Stortinget have strengthened these areas by an additional 100 million. kr through a re-prioritisation. In development policy, there is a sharp distinction here in the Chamber between the government parties and the Christian People's Party which will strengthen the efforts of the developing countries, on the one hand, and the Progress Party and the Right that will cut, on the other hand, strongly, in the allocations of the world's poor, on the other. Other speakers from the Labour Party will address the aid budget. I just want to comment on a couple more issues. The area where development is most uncertain in the future, and where the future is waving between a disappointing and serious setback or a historical time gap, is in the Middle East and in the Arab countries, especially in North Africa. The Palestinians are on the threshold of getting their own country. The Arab revolution can bring peace, freedom and democracy, especially to women, but we can also experience that the ideals and expectations of revolution disappear in religious fundamentalism with mandates in democratic elections. The young Peace Prize winner, Tawakkul Karman, from Yemen, repeated in the meeting with the Foreign and Defence Committee on Sunday the message that we had to support the revolution until it had achieved its objectives. We – the West – must not fail now. Then it is – I would call it – agreeing to see that the Progress Party also spends 150 million on regional allocation to the Middle East and North Africa. kr, 30 pst. of what is proposed. It would weaken our ability to contribute to a positive development in this region if this had been the result of today's budgetary procedure. I am surprised that the Right and Advance Party are not associated with the government parties and the Christian People's Party in a note that underlines that the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, is an important tool for promoting social justice through employment and decent working conditions worldwide, especially because these two parties so strongly emphasise that economic growth, jobs and trade are important in order to get development going. There's little disagreement about that. But then decent working conditions must also be an integral part of such a strategy. A Joint Committee stresses that there is a fundamental consensus among the political parties that the northern regions should be the main strategic area of Norway and that this must be reflected in the annual strategies, plans and budget proposals. We're going to follow this up by putting off 1.5 billion. SEK to North Sea action next year, SEK 190 million. kr more than this year. The Progress Party is proposing $40 million. kr less. The lot does not follow up the fine words of appropriations. The defence budget is historic in the sense that for the first time we reach the objectives of a long-term plan and create consistency between structure and resources. We have followed up on what was promised regarding appropriations. The defense has done its part of the job of improving efficiency; moving money from areas where they are no longer needed to areas that provide increased defence capabilities. The Chairman of the Committee, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, from the Right said in her speech that she felt that the appropriations had been too small. She also said earlier that they should come earlier in the period. The defence has undergone a major change. The political decisions were initiated by the previous Stoltenberg government. The conversion started under the Bondevik government, with a Minister of Defence from the Right. If there's something that the right should have learned from the four years, it's that conversion takes time, that results can wait, and that not everything goes as you think. There is an entire library of reports from the Riksrevision from the time that can help with memory, if necessary. It is not possible to release resources from one day to the next, perhaps not even from one year to the next. Conversion takes time if it is to be done properly. We deliver what we promised in the defence budget next year. It is significant that the biggest debate on the defence budget this year seems to have gone on about the appropriations for the Voluntary Sniper Service. They will now have one year to adapt to the new regulation on the allocation of funds. But we're not completely done with the conversion in the defense. Now the Air Force base structure stands for luck along with the phase-in of our new fighter aircraft. I would like to invite a broad cooperation here in Stortinget also on this part of the renewal of our defence, from yesterday's mobilization defence to tomorrow's defence. 2012 will represent a change in our efforts in Afghanistan. We will go more into the schoolroom and be less out in the field, leaving more of the responsibility to the Afghan forces. We have made excellent efforts in Afghanistan over these years, unfortunately with heavy losses. But we are now seeing the end of our military efforts in Afghanistan. We will continue with civil assistance to build Afghanistan into a society where citizens can have hope for a better future. The setting confirms that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. A Joint Committee supports the main lines of government, a foreign policy that respects and prioritises Norwegian interests and areas where Norway has a prerequisite for making a difference. But when we look at the budgetary options of the Right and the Advance Party, the willingness to put the necessary resources behind this foreign policy line is not equally present. The progress party underlines in its main comment: ‘the importance of obtaining the necessary resources for the interests of Norwegian citizens in the event of unforeseen events from Norwegian foreign stations and their location on the basis of assessments based on the needs of Norwegian citizens and Norwegian strategic and economic interests’. But the party cuts 10 pst. – 169.5 million. kr in the Ministry’s operating budget. Right cutters also roughly - 90 million. kr. This is not to give foreign stations the resources needed to carry out their important tasks. In the budget, there is money, but in the real world, it's about people, not millions – to use Right's new currency. It's about people in maybe 12-14 embassies who have to leave the foreign service, 12-14 embassies that have to be closed. I hope that during the debate we can get a priority list of which areas these parties believe we no longer need to be represented in, and as Norwegian citizens should then stay away because the EEAS will no longer be there to safeguard their interests in the event of unforeseen events. Example two: An overall committee points to the importance of an international legal order and the importance of international organisations for this purpose. In addition, the Party stresses in its main comment that: ‘one of the most important pillars of foreign policy is committed international cooperation — aimed at international decoupling, lasting peace, free world trade and respect for fundamental human rights’. But when it comes to the crowns, the allocations to the United Nations organizations were cut by 20 p.m., the party believes the UN organisations should deal with almost 1 billion. SEK – 926 million. kr – less. The appropriations for multilateral financial institutions will be cut by nearly 800 million. kr, 40 pst. – in the middle of the most serious financial crisis since the mid-war, where precisely these institutions need stronger muscles. And a third example: the item Peace, reconciliation and democracy is cut by 440 million. kr, 25 pst. by the government proposed. The Progress Party notes that ‘work on peace and reconciliation must be done in a more cost-effective way’. So peace must not become too expensive in the opinion of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is now an expert on quick fix solutions, and I hope that during the debate we can get the recipe for more cost-effective peacemaking. The fact that the Advance Party cuts deep into the development aid appropriations is not new. When you read the scepticism for aid in the party's notes, it's really strange that they're willing to grant almost $25 million. NOK to something they have so little faith in benefit. However, when they also cut deep targets they say are important, also in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and Norwegian citizens' interests abroad, this becomes simply unprofessional. The progress party cuts billions on national and international diplomacy, but they grant nearly 1 billion. kr more for bullets and powdered in the Defense. It seems that they have taken inspiration from the old butcher of Tramtheater: ‘The Simplest Is Pistol’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e476	After all, the representative Hansen has been at Stortinget for many years and is familiar with both legislation and how it works. It was interesting to hear his review of the Progress Party's policy, on which he had a greater focus than his own policy. Since the representative Hansen usually has a very principle approach, I intend to ask him the following: Does the representative of Hansen believe that it is acceptable for representatives of official Norway to go out with information that we are not familiar with here in the country during visits to the Canadian Parliament?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e483	Now I think we're going to know what's really been said over there, and what's really right about these numbers -- I guess the Minister of Defense will be able to find out about it. But the fact that things aren't public can also mean that you haven't finished calculating them at home. As far as I understand, the sizes presented in the Evening Post are associated with quite serious errors. There is a comparison of 2008 figure sizes and figures that we are trying to calculate in 2018–2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e488	We know exactly what was said in Canada, because there's a verbatim record. The representative Svein Roald Hansen said that we could go back to a «library» of reports from the National Audit Office on the state of defense. We do not have to go beyond the issues to be dealt with after our budget debate today. In the vote, the government parties state that they fully support the proposal for the defence budget to achieve all the key objectives of the long-term plan in 2012. On the other hand, in Document 1, the Riksrevision says, among other things. the development of the Army; ‘Even in 2010 is not in line with the plan laid down by the Defence and the Army still has significant personnel and material deficiencies, both for combat troops and support departments. Brigade Nord has not practiced in a complete way in 2010 and does not have – according to the army’s own military professional judgement – combative force on the desired level’. How does the representative assess the government's statement that all key objectives will be achieved, in the light of the findings of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e502	The Riksrevision's findings were valid in 2010. The budget for next year, where the targets will be met, is for 2012. Then we'll be waiting for the National Audit Office's 2012 report to see what might be the fasit. But that the Riksrevision has found things to put their finger on even in the period after 2005, is quite correct. It just illustrates that the conversion of such a large organization takes time and is demanding to get absolutely precise. Besides, getting a clean report from the National Audit Office is quite demanding regardless of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e507	I come back to the question that was asked by the representative Ellingsen, because I could not believe that an answer was given to that question. The question was not whether the figures in the Canadian Parliament were correct. The question was about an experienced parliamentarian and a long-standing member of the Norwegian Control Committee, it seems satisfactory in the relationship between government and big business that such information appears in the Canadian Parliament from the Norwegian Government before it is provided by the Norwegian Government Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e512	The question is whether what was said in the Canadian Parliament is different from what has been informed by the Storting on the same subject. If these are things that we should have been informed about, it's critical. But the question is whether it is not the same information that the Storting has received in the past. We know that over the New Year we will have a proposition with adjusted figures in order to make a decision on the purchase of the fighter planes, and then we will also get an overview of the lifetime costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e517	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e520	First to a manifest misunderstanding: the representative Svein Roald Hansen said that the Progress Party cut $40 million. kr in the northern areas. The right thing is we're adding 40 million. kr. So I just want to say that I think it is a pity that the Foreign Minister did not get the lead of the committee. These were important assessments, but I am sure he will have the opportunity to update on it later. The last disclosure of the price excesses in the purchase of new fighter aircraft is serious for the purchase of the aircraft, but it is also serious for the relationship between big business and government. On many difficult issues of foreign and defence policy, there is an open and good link between corruption and government. That's why this is, we feel, a violation of that practice, and it's especially to record that you choose that line when it comes to the flight purchase. Here the government must immediately take action to ensure that the Storting becomes part of the process, and not as it is now, where the Storing obviously has to be perceived as something serious that you do not want to inform. The year behind us has been marked by some major changes – such as in the Middle East and North Africa – economic turmoil, not least in the euro zone, and the beginning of something that is difficult to predict in Russia. It is then important to have a long-term policy for the promotion of democracy, human rights, free trade and strong national defence. The danger of increased protectionism is imminent, not least since a new WTO agreement seems unrealistic. In such a situation, it is important for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian consumers that we are able to keep existing markets open and seek to facilitate access in other markets. New free trade agreements are therefore essential and, as Russia enters the WTO, the possibilities for a free trade agreement are open there. Trade is good for wealth, growth and development. That is why we need to set up our policies so that it not only promotes Norwegian trade, but also encourages trade globally. We believe that a barrier to growth in many developing countries is the low share of trade between countries in the same region, and we therefore come up with concrete proposals to address this challenge. We must always have a defence that is capable of upholding our sovereignty. Government parties can point out that Norway spends more money on defence than other countries in Europe, and that we should therefore be satisfied. Our perception is that it is the nature and scope of the task that must be decisive for what goals we set ourselves, not what other European NATO countries are doing. Most of these are also difficult to compare with, as their seas cannot be compared with ours, and there is hardly any country that has had as much new seas in recent years as Norway. This makes our needs different from those of many others. A major weakness in the budget is that there is no discussion of what is actually the objectives of operational action. Some media surveys tell of a marine situation where most vessels are more or less permanently at berth. With so little operationality, the small increase in the budget that comes from the government does not help. It needs a completely different boost to get a relationship between what's the problems and what's actually delivering. We're strengthening the defence budget by nearly 1 billion. kr. The events of the last few days in Russia are a strong reminder that not everything is as stable as we may have thought. When authoritarian management no longer manages to deliver growth, and does not show the will to address corruption, the dissatisfaction emerges. No matter how this ends, it's a powerful warning to Putin. In meeting with the Russian authorities, Norway has to follow up the criticisms made by international electoral observers and state that we expect Russia to respect the agreements it has committed itself to. A weakened Russian leadership in the exercise of its foreign policy could create challenges that we have to deal with. Increased activity in the north creates both opportunities and challenges. New jobs and incomes are welcome. In this context, provision should be made in the form of a more modern infrastructure. In order to create lasting and dynamic relations to the east, it must be invested. Too little attention has been given to linking North Norway with its neighbouring countries by road, rail and modern border stations. People-to-people cooperation for organisations and politicians is well and good, but the great dynamic arises when investments and start-ups follow up in the wake of such contacts. Some of the increased activity in the Arctic is in the form of petroleum recovery. As a highly vulnerable area, it poses additional challenges in relation to both regulation and oil protection. It is important here that the work done in the Arctic Council turns into something concrete, and that something binding be put on the table for the next ministerial meeting. There is little evidence that oil exploration will pause while Arctic Council is working. That is why politicians must be at the forefront of development. Another area for which control is essential is the emission of ‘black carbon’ or soot. Local emissions affect the melting of the ice. A very large source of soot in the Arctic is the burning of gas in Russia. Incentives and alternatives must be created for the Russians to use the gas in a better way than to burn it. Today, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is working on this, but it has to be assessed whether this issue has to be raised to the Arctic Council and given greater political power than today. A good development policy is important for many reasons, not least to safeguard Norwegian interests. However, in order for development policy to lift people out of poverty and bring new countries into the globalised economy, policy must be effective. There's a lot to go on here. We need to be able to stimulate investment and trade in poor countries and thus create jobs that in turn generate income for both individuals and society – incomes that are once again ploughed into health, education and infrastructure. The Progress Party – partly alone, and partly together with the Right and Christian People's Party – has, with its proposals in both the financial position and this position, addressed this challenge, not only by facilitating imports into Norway but also by upgrading African countries to become better integrated into the world economy and contributing to more trade and investment across Africa. At a time when globalization is challenged by more nationalism and protectionism, there is a need for both political force and action that can work in the opposite direction. One should be careful to be easily able to deal with such a serious issue as development policy. But with all possible respect for my political competitors, it seems that the highest quality of Norwegian development policy is that we are able to achieve the 1 pst goal. That's a pretty straightforward measure. It may not be so easy to clean up the budget, and it turns out that it is not necessarily easy to use all the money either. But it is easy because it fails to set measurable requirements for where a beneficiary country will be after a few years of assistance, and it is easy because it is largely about measuring a certain amount of assistance towards a size of the Norwegian economy. And that's obvious when you actually get something like this. when it is possible to ensure that Namibia and Botswana can sell some lamb to Norway. But once the roof of the import is reached, it's full stop. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture says to the evening post on 29 November that this is not a double standard, because these two countries are not ‘among the poorest’. One might wonder if it is actually that it is okay to trade with developing countries as long as they are careful to be poor enough, but at the moment that trade with Norway and other countries becomes a success, and the country is moving out of poverty, then trade is not so interesting anymore. So it's not development policies, it's the care of poor clients, which are interesting by being poor, but not when they get to something that takes them out of poverty. So looking at Norwegian development policy in response to Norwegian agricultural policy should have a high age limit because of very unethical behaviour. When the focus is on achieving the 1 pst goal, you have to find channels for the assistance that can swallow large amounts of money, and such a channel is the UN and its sub-organisations. Here it's easy to get rid of billions of eager donors. Billions continue to flow every year from Norway to the United Nations, despite the fact that the Minister of Development says to the evening post on 17 November that we do not have sufficient transparency, and despite the fact that last year the government of the state budget wrote: «UN organisations are bureaucratic and have difficulties in delivering assistance effectively.» How are we going to explain this? Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo says to the Evening Post, also 17 November, that politicians are fully aware of the risk of corruption and, in fact, expect some to disappear, but consider that they have few alternatives to using UN organisations. That many politicians knew that the money was gone, and that it was okay, as Cosmo says, was unknown to me. But that explains why it's the way it is. Maybe it's time to think about something new. Perhaps it is time to set up development policies with instruments that do not reward corruption and inefficiency, but actually combat it. Maybe it's time to stop with unrealistic expectations of the United Nations system, and in time to make demands at all levels. Finally, I will be allowed to address the suggestions that we are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e561	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e567	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for a very interesting article, especially the part on development policy. Yesterday, Norad presented his fifth report on aid and conflict. That report places great emphasis on the importance of presence in countries during and after conflict, and not least the need for work on peace, reconciliation and democracy. The Advance Party's alternative budget is intended to cut support for this work by nearly 30 pst. Svein Roald Hansen quoted from the comments of the Progress Party that ‘work on peace and reconciliation must be done in a more cost-effective way’. I wonder if the representative, Mr Höglund, can explain how this is to be done, and why it seems so important to cut aid for peace, reconciliation and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e578	The Progress Party does not see the same need for Norway to profile itself in the area of peace. We've been clear about that all along. This was created by Norway and the political majority as a supporter of Norwegian foreign policy. We respect that. We don't have the same need. We see that others too can contribute in this area. We also see that Norway has engaged in many processes. Some have given results, others have not given the same degree of results. We have asked for a thorough evaluation of these processes. Something has been evaluated. We got an evaluation in relation to Sri Lanka. We have also asked for evaluation in other areas. We believe that the Norwegian peace exposure is not the great success as it is always highlighted as. In certain multilateral areas of negotiation, such as class bombs, etc., we have credited the government for its work and asked it to do so. But in other areas, and in more bilateral engagements, we have asked for a reduction in commitment, and it goes on more continents and more countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e589	I almost began to wonder what had happened during the writing of the article to the otherwise prudent and nuanced representative, Höglund, as I see him in many foreign policy contexts, because there was an incredibly strong and negative use of the type of ‘implementation of poor clients’ – as I am particularly aware – that he used in terms of the overall development policy. I really feel like following the trail to Svein Roald Hansen: How can you use 25 billion? kr on something that one looks so unbounded negative on?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e596	Our budget is not 25 billion. kr, it is significantly lower. We make quite thorough remarks, I would say, in our budgetary position, because we feel that the major cuts we are making in the field of development policy must be justified. If you read this in context, you'll see that we have a differentiated view of it. When the representative develops language usage particularly linked to where I believe Norwegian agricultural policy stands in the way of a good development policy, I am indignant. Then I'm told that old-fashioned protectionism prevents development where it seems to make sense, and that's not, as I see it, economic reasons for this. This is not about our cuts, it is about politics and how we deal with Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e605	I must unfortunately also follow that lead, because it disappoints me when the representative, Mr Höglund, with whom I have had good foreign and development policy discussions, goes to work so hard and accuses agriculture of being unethical, and that it really seems that all development policy has failed. One of the most meaningful things I can experience as a politician is looking at the numbers and developments that have been. I used to say that when I started in KrFU, I learned that 40,000 children die every day before they reach the age of five. Today, the figure is 25 000 – a great success. This shows that, among other things: Norwegian development policy, focus on aid, focus on trade, focus on debt, etc. share in lifting people out of poverty. It is about targeting assistance to the poorest countries and getting the most effective assistance out of the money. That's why I was a little surprised when I read the comment on the Progress Party, which is going on the Global Vaccine Alliance, GAVI, where one criticises that support, among other things. 15 countries are falling away because their gross domestic product per capita has increased so much that they are starting to recover. The fact that people and countries are doing their own thing is positive. Why is the Progress Party so disappointed that these countries are self-confident that they will continue to maintain support?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e614	I must first say that I do not believe that Norwegian agriculture is unethical. If there is something that is unethical, it is the policy that is being pursued. I'm not going to say that the farmers are. In describing what has happened in developing countries, we share it in many ways. But the reasons why it has become so, we may disagree. There are other things that have led to growth, other than traditional assistance. Otherwise, we are happy that the Christian People's Party is involved in much of the thinking of looking at how we can achieve a new and better development policy. We see that the Christian People's Party is drifting in that way. What is a problem when we give trade facilitations, tolerations — and the representative mentioned the example of GAVI — is that as soon as some countries disappear from being the poorest, they are pushed out. We believe that we need to look at this effect, so that we can take care of these countries and build them up in good development, so that they do not constantly sink back into poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e624	This is a year when I feel that many of the most decisive features of our time have been more visible around us than in a long time. The first is that even though we now experience a very strong financial crisis – the economic crisis – which is around us in Europe, and which is free of daily life for many people, there are long lines: the center of power of the world is being moved east. Both demographic and economic has been a trend over many decades, and everything we have of knowledge suggests that it will continue. China can pass the United States as the world’s largest economy in ten years, and Asia, both by virtue of its population and its accumulation of economic weight, is emerging. New countries, such as South Korea, Japan, India and Indonesia, are emerging in different ways with emphasis on the international scene – in addition to China. At the same time, the most important overseas band in the world — which has our North America-Europe — is gradually being moved to cross the Pacific in the future. Here are major challenges for Norwegian foreign policy. But it also gives the other amazing thing that has happened this year: a process of democratization that can be long-lasting and move towards lasting freedom and democracy has begun in the Middle East. In several countries, positive and important things have happened, in other countries dramatic things – things we do not know where the ends end – and in other countries, we see that there are wolves under the surface. This is also one of the long lines of evolution over many, many decades – that there are gradually more people who demand power over central decisions in their lives. Unfortunately, the third thing we've seen is in a more negative way. Even if one in Durban came as far as one could go in the field of climate policy, what we are experiencing now is that the world's lack of management is largely due to the dramatic challenges we face in the field of climate. But climate policy and the loss of natural disasters will also have to be managed much tougher by the world for decades to come than we have now. When I start this way, it's because this is the broad backbone of Norwegian foreign policy in the decades to come. I think we can draw some clear conclusions – first, that it must be right for Norway to pursue an even more active foreign policy in the future than before, and, secondly, that we are forced to have a broad policy that is great, for many of the major challenges that will affect us strongly are far from what is true of our immediate economic and security policy, short-term interests. Thirdly, we have to adjust the image far beyond our vicinity, for all three major challenges I have now mentioned, are really going to go far beyond where we have had much of our focus – in our continent and in the vicinity around us. I think this is a good budget to deal with just that direction. It is a strong priority for an active foreign policy for the Nordic countries – our important strategic environment. It is a good development and assistance policy – but not just assistance – it is a policy that must continue to bet on debt relief and a very important forestry effort. It is a policy for democracy, for human rights and for peace engagement internationally. Then there is also a policy we are willing to pay for. We've gone up to 1 pst. of GNI for assistance and continued to be there. I fully agree with those who say that quality objectives are important for all policy areas, but it is not that there is a better quality of cutting heavily in what one does rather. Using money in a better way is becoming better. Then there's a defense plan that we've been following up for years, which has made it a good sense in the defense that one actually gets it one is promised in advance. It's very important for a sector that hasn't always experienced it. The same can be said of the effort being made in the north, where knowledge and development around knowledge are nave and turn the north into an important and strategically interesting region, where jobs are also being developed. It is a good red-green foreign, development and defence budget we have delivered this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e644	We have already heard several times today about an additional cost in terms of the flight purchase – 90 billion. kr, which appeared in the Canadian Parliament. I would like to ask SV where their pain limit goes, and where they think that this money will be covered. Or does SV choose not to take a decision on this, but push it over to future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e651	No one should in any case have a pain limit associated with cork reputations or reports in a newspaper. That is why I look forward to obtaining evidence of what is going on, and I expect the Minister of Defence to take it up in his speech today, and that there will be information to the Stortinget and others about what is the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e657	Norway provides significant funds to multilateral organisations. Many of these organisations are very important for us to achieve our development policy objectives and objectives. But we also stand together as parties about the desire to evaluate these organizations. But where we no longer stand together, it's about wanting to use the numbers, the evaluations, to actually turn the support of the organisations that deliver the least, to those that deliver the most. For the Right, it's obvious that it means we're getting more back in terms of our development policy objectives. We have no obligations towards these organisations except to pay the membership quota. Can the Right expect SV’s support for twisting money from those who deliver the least to those who deliver the most in the case of multilateral organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e662	On the right, SV and everyone else can expect to use the knowledge we get about how our money is best spent, and how different multilateral organisations work. It may have an impact on Norwegian money use, but most importantly, it should have an impact on the impact we and others exercise on improving organisations that do not work well enough. We depend on a wide range of multilateral organisations. The main objective, the most important goal, must be that they must work well, and we must use not only economic but also other incentives and our influence to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e667	In these Christmas seasons I have enjoyed reading Solhjell's new book. In particular, I cost myself with the section on our common journey through the Holy Land. What I was very impressed with, however, was the dramatic announcement by the representative Solhjell in the book issuing, following a foreign policy opposition in Norway, and he believes that the bottleneck points to some quite different parties here in the hall than its own. Then I have to ask, what's happened in the last few years? For under Solhjell’s otherwise excellent leadership, it is precisely the fact that the opposition that has been in Norwegian foreign policy – in terms of NATO, in terms of EU/EEA, in terms of boycott by Israel, in terms of peace and war – has disappeared quite correctly, but the announcement must be directed to the SV’s own party organisation, because it is SV who has stopped being an opposition party in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e676	At first I thought the representative Højbrätten would reveal that I have made a mistake in a reference to the Bible in that part of the book he mentions, which he has pointed out to me. It will be fixed in the second version, I can promise from here. However, I clearly believe that when it comes to foreign policy as domestic policy, it is important that there are real policy options and different directions. We in SV still think it is important in important areas, even if we are in government, to raise the debate on different ways of looking at things – Afghanistan is an example of that, and the Middle East policy, it could have been other things. But I think it's strange that we now seem to have an opposition that doesn't even happen, if I understand them correctly, it seems important to have the role of a real opposition, but that it should be in government, and that SV should have it. I thought that the opposition should have greater ambitions, actually thinking different, for an important different direction in different fields. It is with foreign policy as with other things, where it is thought to be too equal, it is often thought to be too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e686	This year's defence budget and foreign budget are solid, and it is credible. I'll start with the defence budget first. It is solid because it provides important increases to measures that have been needed. This applies, inter alia, to: training of army and home protection, more sailing for our ships and large and necessary material purchases. The budget is credible because it meets the current defence long-term plan. It shows that the government stands by its promises, both at the processing here in the Stortinget and from the Soria Moria Declaration, and that it will be a credible partner for the Defence when we now enter into the planning for the next long term. The current long-term has been marked by a finalisation of the conversion to an intervention defence. Both the Army, the Home Guard and the Maritime Defense have undergone major changes. It has been demanding, but it has been absolutely necessary. As in the previous long-term programming period, the mission in Afghanistan has marked the entire defence and, of course, the annual budgets and priorities of the budget. Now, this is the job of stepping down, and the defense can put a stronger focus on the national tasks. With the huge deliveries especially the Army has been given in the last ten years, there is no time for new, heavy foreign missions. We have major tasks in our neighbourhood that have had to be given lower priority for a long time because of the mission in Afghanistan. These are now the time to prioritize when we will gradually find less resources for heavy tasks out there. There is talk of sailing and presence in the northern regions, of being a defence throughout the country through the different defence sectors, but not least of having a modern and good protection of homes that can also contribute to civil situations. Defence also needs time and space to consolidate its own organisation after a long period of conversion and reorganisation. As a representative of the Hedmark Armed Forces, I am well aware of the enormous change in defence. It has taken a lot of many, and I am therefore glad that in the three red-green parts of this budget we have managed to find room for an increase of well over 200 million. kr also in the year's budget, which shows that we are completing the long-term plan. As the representative Svein Roald Hansen was inside, there was only one change we made, and that was in relation to the Voluntary Sniper Service. For us in the Center Party, it has been important to strengthen the volunteer organisation as well. The second really heavy budgetary area in our budget is the development budget. I am pleased that the Central Party is part of a tripartite government that has over time shown its willingness to invest in development policy. There are four parties that together are carriers of Norwegian developmental policy tradition. That we've managed to get together in this year's budget, I'm glad, because there's a real dividing line on the Stortinge between the parties that think it's right to bet on offensive development policy, and the Right and Advance Party. The fact that they have eaten parts of the budget further through the budgetary work here at Stortinget is good. The recommendations of the majority of the population represent an even clearer focus on education, agriculture and the voluntary sector. This is fully in line with the priorities of the Central Party in the area of aid policy. By targeting development aid even more towards agriculture, we show that we take global food security seriously. The funds allocated to agriculture in this year’s budget are intended to contribute to the climate adaptation of agriculture in the south, which has been a requirement of developing countries in global climate negotiations. Resources have also been allocated to international agricultural research and owner-organisation. We need to increase food production in the world, and every country needs to produce as much food as possible in order to be able to feed not least its own population. But it doesn't just keep producing more food. It is also necessary to explore how to develop seeds suitable for different types of climate, to develop better storage and transport of food, in order to keep them up over time, and to organise themselves to ensure that they regain their legitimate share of the yield from agricultural production. The means given to agriculture over this aid project are intended to go for such purposes. We have increased the development funds for agriculture by 199 million. kr in the next year's budget. This is a significant lift, and it's a right lift. Looking back over the last few years, and not least at the situation we are seeing today with ever-increasing hunger problems — not least at the horns of Africa — it is necessary and right to ensure that several countries are able to have a good and safe food supply for their own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e712	I noticed the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum's unconditional delight in the use of money in development and assistance. Now, export revenue is essential for a country to develop, improve its economy and promote growth and prosperity. Exports of food, e.g. from Africa, is a future winner concept because the continent has almost unlimited possibilities for food production. It is possible I turn to the wrong party, but can the representative Battle Violence Vedum bring some good news for Africa here today to lighten up a little on the iron carpet and allow African producers to export a little more food, to delight Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e719	With the funds entered in this budget, some of the objectives are to increase production in African agriculture and make it less vulnerable to climate change, and to developing, inter alia, climate change. such as to increase yields on the areas. The main reason we are concerned about this is that food security in some countries, especially on the African continent, is so weak and that there has been a demand in climate negotiations for Western countries to also contribute to the development of agriculture in areas that are very vulnerable to climate change. For our own part, we import approx. 50 pst. Of what we eat, and we're going to do that in the future, too, if the government gets an impact on its policy. If we're going to be able to maintain a self-sufficiency rate of 50 pst, we're going to need greater imports of food into Norway, with an increasing population. So there's also going to be more imports of food into Norway – certainly also from African agriculture, and I see that positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e726	Perhaps it is possible to get some butter from African countries too! I will follow up where the previous question ends: Does the representative of the Battle of Vedum think that the world's poor country – in addition to the least developed countries – should have better opportunity than today to sell its products in Norway, including agricultural products? The representative will be aware that there has been a problem over many years that Western countries have over-produced and dumped their products on the world market at prices lower than those for which African producers can produce, and it has undermined their ability to produce agricultural products. Will the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum and his party contribute to rectifying this and opening up the Norwegian market for agricultural products from the world's poor country, beyond the MUL countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e735	Norwegian agricultural policy is not export-oriented. It is aimed at self-sufficiency of primary products for the Norwegian population – unfortunately, butter has failed right now, but it will be fixed for next year. That is how we have directed our policies – not by operating export subsidies by dumping goods in other countries and thus shutting down their markets. For this has been one of the main problems — for example: In Haiti, and elsewhere, liberalisation policies have been pursued and at the same time opened up to the dumping of agricultural products and overproduction, e.g. The United States, which has cut out their entire domestic production. All of our math thinking is about food security, food security in each country, and trade restrictions have to be applied. At the same time, however, measures to reduce food safety in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, need to be reduced. export subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e743	When I listened to Mr Vedum's speech on development policy, I remembered a line from one of my predecessors – Jon Lilletun – "A good budget has become even better." It could have been the title of the post of Mr Vedum's representative, and I signed it! What I'm about to know is whether this improvement is going to continue, or whether it's passing. A large majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the last period asked for education to become a greater share of the development budget and not a smaller share, as we have seen trends. Then we need an escalation – not only this year, but also in the years to come. How does the Center Party feel about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e753	If you look at the budgetary changes we have made in the Storting during the red-green period, you have mainly followed up these – on the part of the government – at next year's budget presentation. Many of the funds we put in last year are in this year. So it's essentially followed up by the government. I expect that next year, too, you'll see that you'll follow up on the additions we've done, as well as the priorities you've put in the notes. A broad majority of Europeans want an even stronger focus on education, agriculture and the voluntary sector, and this is probably something to be seen again in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e758	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e761	The budgetary position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy is not just a matter of decision-making. The reasons for the appropriations confirm the conclusion of key pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. Anyone who wants to look for practical policies and not just political speech always makes sense to check where the money goes. In this setting, the Stortinget confirms its support for Norway’s security policy anchoring in transatlantic cooperation and in NATO. Here, with the support of all parties, the participation of Norway in NATO, the investment and operation of our national defence and the international military operations in which Norway participates, are financed. in Afghanistan. I believe it is a great step forward that there is now a hundred percent consensus on this in the Norwegian Stortinget. European policy confirms that cooperation with the EU is based on the EEA Agreement. Autumn polls also confirm that the requirement for EU membership is weaker than ever. In the past, it was probably among the Christian People's Party's voters that it was 80 pst. which was against EU membership. Now the Norwegian population has come to terms with the same figures for the entire Norwegian population. Well, I guess you could say it's the way that reason goes. Key pillars of our neighbourhood policy are north-eastern actions and project cooperation with Russia. Together with our large neighbour in the east, we have the responsibility to manage high values in the Barents Sea, both the petroleum deposits and our renewable but vulnerable fishing resources. The Northern Region Chapter also provides for measures to develop democracy and human rights. The presidential election in Russia was a revealing test of the location of democratisation. Messages from election observers and the opposition on serious electoral fraud and mass arrests following demonstrations are discouraging news. For me, it will be diplomatic when the Foreign Minister says to the NTB that democracy in Russia is still at risk. And it becomes absolutely meaningless when, in commenting on the irregularities in the elections, the Foreign Minister says: ‘It raises the question of whether the choice meets common European requirements in order to be free and fair.’ In our opinion, the irregularities do not just raise questions. Unfortunately, the election reports break what we can call common European demands for fair elections. I expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs to pass this on to the Russian authorities without a trace, if he has not already done so. We must not allow the newly emerging real policy and interest policy to lead to Norway failing to speak clearly about this. Under the current government, year after year, we have learned that there is little room for the Storting to make changes in anything that comes here to Stortinget, and in particular to the state budget. However, during the discussion of the aid budgets by the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have, on the part of the Christian People's Party, stressed the need to be results-oriented, and in the autumn, we have achieved – by negotiating with the government parties – to move 100 million. kr for the 2012 budget. Thanks to good tone and constructive conversations, we have been able to increase the investment for several important development purposes that have not been sufficiently prioritised by the government. This is why the Stortinget decides today to increase Norway’s efforts for education in developing countries. We are strengthening measures for more sustainable and climate-resilient agriculture and greater food security in poor countries. We're adding to the appropriations both for civil society and for UN Women. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I will give the government parties a boost to the will to stand with us on these changes. They are far from as strong bets as the Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. During the committee's examination of the defence budget, we succeeded in reaching a broad agreement to protect support for the Voluntary Sniper Service for the following year. The cuts proposed by the government are now being transformed by an overall committee, which is also positive. Although big debates tend to focus on what divides, we should not underestimate what we stand together about. Nevertheless, much remains in relation to the more offensive and ambitious line proposed by the Christian People's Party in the fight for international development and poverty reduction. The Christian People's Party does not agree with the government's proposal to reduce aid's share of Norway's gross national income. So in our alternative state budget, we are proposing to increase the aid framework by 560 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. That's actually the minimum needed to maintain the aid rate at 1.02 pst. of GNI from this year to next year. It has been about what is ethical in aid policy. I would like to say that when Norway is at the top – the top of the world – in terms of wealth, it is not particularly impressive from an ethical point of view to cut our aid to the very poorest with between 6 and 7 billion. kr, as one of the lots here in the hall does today. In addition to using ethics as a basis for its policy, I find it rather scrupulous. We proposed to set up an investment fund of 10 billion. to promote economic development, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, which is the world's poorest continent. Right should be right – we got support from the Progress Party. We received support from the Right, unfortunately not from the government parties. We're surprised at that. We think they really agree with us, but that there are counterpowers in the government quarter that do not allow them to. Now it's a hypothesis, nothing more than that -- but it's based on some experience. In the view of the Christian People's Party, a comprehensive and better coordinated development policy must mean that we are doing more for the development of the private sector in developing countries, not the aid budget. Therefore, investment and trade are key instruments in development policy. If Norway had kept the aid rate at the same level as this year, we would have given civil society 150 million. Extra kroner. We would increase the regional allocation to Africa by 100 million. NOK and in addition spent 100 million. In particular, to ensure a better starting point for Africa’s newest country, South Sudan. In addition, the Christian People's Party would strengthen health systems in developing countries by 100 million. kr and greatly increased support for climate-resilient agriculture. I just have to say that the proposals of the Christian People's Party were voted down by the majority during the consideration of the financial position. It happened, even though the government’s political platform, Soria Moria II, says: ‘that the appropriations for development cooperation are to be kept above 1 per cent of GNI’. [[...]] In practice, only the Christian People's Party has proposed this during the treatment of the state budget this year. We had expected more of the government parties – and of the Right. With regard to the Progress Party, I will be very careful to make a sober mathematical observation, for more clearly than ever, we now see the following: the size of the assistance the Progress Party will provide is inversely proportional with the length of the party's budgetary remarks on assistance. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that Norway's policy towards developing countries as a whole contributes more effectively to combating poverty and developing under the climate conditions under which the countries of the south actually have to live. Many instruments are then important: private sector investment, easier trade, peaceful conflict resolution, climate adaptation, the promotion of democracy and human rights, the fight against corruption and the development of governance sets. Aid allocations are only part of this instrument package, but they are an important part, because the means of assistance actually provide the means of action to speed up work in all these areas. We need increased resources to support the Arab Spring! Our Arab brothers and sisters must be supported in their struggle for the freedom and human rights they have so long been deprived of. It is good that more is now being allocated to this. However, budgetary decisions also give cause for concern. If we had maintained a higher assistance framework, we could have covered this increased effort for human rights without reducing efforts for development and poverty reduction in the very poorest countries. As draftsman of the opinion of the opinion of the Committee on Prop. 39 S for 2011-2012 and Prop. 40 S for 2011–2012 I finally have a simple problem. I can recommend, on behalf of a unanimous committee, that the Stortinget give its consent to Norway participating in the forthcoming capital restockings of two international development funds. Over the next few years, Norway will contribute well over 2.3 billion. kr to the International Development Fund, IDA, administered by the World Bank. Norway will contribute 1.5 billion. kr to the African Development Fund. The more detailed decisions are set out in the Committee's recommendations in the configurations. Let me conclude by saying that the Christian People's Party will support the proposal made by the Right and the Advance Party in the Inner. 7 S, proposal No 2, which aims to restore the necessary capacities in the big cities, mobilizable capacities, to replace HV-016, which was closed last year. So this is proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e802	There is a lot we agree on, and that is what the representative also said, Højbräten, and he particularly underlined the parts of foreign policy, the defence policy of NATO and the EEA Agreement, which for us is so unusually important. Then it was also interesting to hear the contributions of the Høybrätten, and I think it was nice that he devoted so much of his contribution to aid policy, its content and even the ethics that Norway has to lead on such questions. He even made a framework criticism of the Committee on Budgets' budget proposals. I fully agree with the representative, Højbrätten, on this – fully agree. I look forward to further discussions with the Christian People's Party on the future budget for assistance. If you are going to go further on this: how does the High Commissioner see it, if there is a political situation in which they need to cooperate with the Progress Party on Aid Policy? Hasn't the Høybråten more to pick up from the three government parties in this regard, also in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e807	I have no problem saying, simply, that in development policy, the distance is much greater to parties on the right for us than it is to parties on the left for us. That's why, in addition to having a political situation in which these parties have a majority, the Christian People's Party has gone to the government parties and asked for support for changes in the development budget, and we're happy that we've got it. Historically, our results show that once we have been in government with a party on our right, that is to say, right, we have been impressed by our development policy, our ambitions and our targeting of development policy. That's the best answer I can give the representative Nordtun. Mixing the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party's development policy is kind of like mixing fire and water.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e814	The High Commissioner is using great power in the area of aid policy. I didn't intend to make this a very rhetorical debate, but there has been a lot of look-up – not least in the past – and this is a continuous process, which tells a little about the lack of assistance. A Ugandan clergyman says, ‘Help creates beggars.’ The evening post says, ‘15 billion in the fog home’, about the allocation to UNDP, and ‘aid does not help’ in combating corruption, among others. - This is a long series. My comment on unethical behaviour was the Ministry of Agriculture's attitude to receive more meat from Namibia and Botswana. Does the representative Højbräten not see that there are ethical dilemmas in relation to how we deal with imports of food from Africa – that there are development policies facing agricultural policy? That's what went on in ethics from my side, and I'm standing by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e821	I do not think there is any disagreement between the representative Höglund and me that there are dilemmas in the relationship between our development policy and our agricultural policy. These are dilemmas you have to solve. I think we can solve them with a more offensive policy to open up trade from the poor part of the world. It also appeared from my post. Then I have to tell the representative, Mr Höglund, that I also fully agree that we should constantly be looking for what has to happen to abuse, to corruption, to misuse aid – there we stand 100 pst. together. But what surprises me is that in the committee position after committee voting, it looks as if the only progress party is busy is to find out everything in the world's various publications about criticism of assistance, and then you put it in the vote. And then you're never going to celebrate what works, and what lifts the poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e828	A heart cause for the Christian People's Party is international distribution. I would like to refer to the representative, Højbräten, who says that they have made a budget settlement like they are 100 pst. satisfied with, etc., and that the Christian People's Party has very little to pick up on the right side of development policy, because there you will only cut billions of billions from the poorest. In today's debate, we have learned that the Progress Party will cut over 7 billion. kr, but also the right will cut almost 1 billion. kr. It's one of the few places they actually do a real cut. How will the representative describe the Right priority, when they want to cut about. 1 billion. For the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e836	I've already told you how to describe it. The only thing I have to say to the Right Defense is that they behave differently in cooperation with the Christian People's Party in terms of development policy, than they do when they are alone in opposition to the Storting. I hope that's going to be the situation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e841	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e844	The world is exposed to strong globalisation. We see that the market economy, but also the democracies, is spreading. There's more people eating saturation now than it was a few years ago. There are several who can vote in elections, and there are several who survive their first five years of life, as we have commented on earlier here. The foreign policy of Norway must be based primarily on human rights, on the fight for democracy, the market economy, the environment and respect for law and order. What we are seeing around the world now is that more and more countries are choosing democracy. Few go to dictatorship. What we have to remember is that from Norway got its very democratic constitution, it took almost a hundred years before Norway could call itself a proper democracy. Building democracy in a society takes a long time. I hope that the democracies we are now seeing grow, do not spend as long as Norway spent on becoming a proper, representative democracy. What we see around us is, for example, that a country such as Russia has now had problems making a proper democracy, yes, they have even acted on the concept of ‘Russian democracy’. I think I have referred here from the pulpit before my Russian party friend, who said that 'democracy' is one of the words you should not put forward. It's like putting ‘electric’ in front of a ‘chair’ – you get a completely different opinion. That's how I think it's healthy, when you experience electoral fraud, that people take to the streets, and that the pressure on leaders is increasing. That means that Russia is on the right track. We must also give the Arab countries time and opportunity to build democracy. I must admit that I became more optimistic after Saturday's Arab Peace Prize talks. What we know, based on our experience of building democracy, is that building democracy means building civil society. You have to build civil structures, you have to build everything that a democracy is built on. What we see now, for example, when Egypt goes to the polls, is that the civil structures that have been found work well when it comes to mobilizing elections, sail if they don't always work the way we want it to work. That is why we in the Left believe that it would have been important to build a much stronger cooperation with the Arab countries, in order to build democracy, civil structures, party cooperation, NGO cooperation and all that we did when democracies in the East began to grow. The Peace Prize winner said that what happens in the Arab Spring is similar to what happened in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Wall. We should listen to it, and we should do the same steps that we did when the wall fell. So until some of the changes left have on the two budgets we're now discussing. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees is constantly taking up the need for more countries to accept more quota refugees. We're celebrating our big polar heroes this year. We celebrate, among other things, The special role of the nation, both in relation to the UN High Commission and in relation to the role of Norway in relation to refugees. Therefore, the Left believes that it would have been quite logical that we had increased the reception of quota refugees by at least 500, which we are doing in our budget this year. We have three countries which are low-income countries but which do not have the customs freedom that we see that other countries have. That is why we have included in our budget the last three countries, Vietnam, Pakistan and Nigeria, among the low-income countries that should be allowed customs freedom into Norwegian markets. I want to boast of the government in terms of climate and energy cooperation in many developing countries. It is positive, much of what is happening in the forest area, seas whether it is demanding to make good mechanisms both in terms of corruption and in terms of the mechanisms to prevent the forest from only being removed elsewhere. What we wanted, was probably a slightly broader approach to energy in these countries, to build clean energy is an important factor in building wealth further on in the future. We should also focus more on bilateral channels in the area of assistance. Bilateral agreements lead to greater ownership of aid projects by poor countries. Norway is now moving away from the bilateral agreements and from more multilateral agreements, which we believe weakens the ownership of the poor countries into their own projects. We're on the level of other parties when we're critical of the twist from Africa to Latin America, so in our alternative budget, we turn the money from Latin American projects back to Africa. The focus on Latin America is purely ideological, while the opportunities and poverty we see in Africa should have been given greater attention in our aid budget. Then to the defense. The left has not very many major changes in the defence budget compared to the government. We're waiting for the long-term plan before we want to take a few big steps. But I want to comment on three points. Some are very small in money, and some are very large in money. I'll start with the least. Cutting in the Voluntary Shooter Service feels like cutting in the Left's soul. The left was built on the Voluntary Sniper Service, and going into and cutting into such an important part of the construction of Norway as a nation, in fact, and our identity, cut into the Left-Shela. We have, of course, put the money back in our alternative budget and it is positive that the government has turned this point around. So the slightly larger numbers and the slightly larger grips. We are also upset that the Canadian Parliament is standing in front of the Norwegian Parliament in the queue for new numbers on fighter aircraft. It should have been presented here first. It says a little about the spinal cord reflex when it seems more logical to brief the Canadian Parliament before briefing the Norwegian. It talks a little bit about the attitude. We're pretty upset about it. Today we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is based on building a unit that performs the tasks that HV-016 has previously performed. We got an answer from the Council yesterday to questions about this. We're going to ask more questions, because this is one of the points where I don't think we should wait until a Commission has presented its conclusions. I think it's obvious that it was revealed on 22 July that the tasks that HV-016 had, we had not transferred to the right authorities, so that someone could do the tasks today. That is why the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 2 to the Inn. 7S.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e880	The representative, Skei Grande, said that cutting off the appropriation for the Voluntary Sniper Service was like cutting off the Left's soul. What is behind the government's proposal is a shift in the grant scheme to all the voluntary organisations that receive funding from the defence budget, from giving a grant only to the organisation as such, to reducing what we can call the basic allocation, and then applying for funding for activities. This has its origin in a report from diffi. I also think the National Auditorate has been pointing out that it should be done. In spite of the spirit – does the representative believe that the Musketeer will not be able to adapt to such a support scheme? It is a very common support scheme in other contexts as well. That's the one. The second is: what budget will the Left vote for later today? You will vote in favour of proposal No. Two, we heard. The representative presented an alternative budget. It's not for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e889	With regard to the budget debate today, we are going to vote in favour of the budget of the government parties. We voted in favour of our primary role in the financial situation. So to the Voluntary Sniper Service. I'm open to the government changing the grant systems, but that doesn't mean that the Left always agrees with the way to do it. I believe that the way Svein Roald Hansen is now presenting is in direct violation of the wording of Soria Moria I. Now I don't have the government statement on the speaker's chair, but I remember quite accurately that under the item on volunteering in the government statement, it says that you want a twist away from having project support, and that you want more basic support, precisely because of the bureaucracy of volunteering. Just to get rid of all the paperwork in the voluntary sector, more basic appropriations and less budget appropriations are needed. I would encourage those responsible for the defence part of the budget to read the entire government statement. There is no pleasant reading always, but at this point I fully agree with the government's government statement, not the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e898	I have actually heard bad tongues say that the Left has sold his soul to the Right and the Advance Party, but now we know it's wrong. She is safe and secure with the Voluntary Sniper Service. But I should like to know what the Left thought about the Progress Party and the Right's development policy and they cut them now propose, in the light of the representative Højbråtens – from the Christian People's Party – quite harsh words against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e905	The high jump is quite right in that there will be a very big difference if the Right and Advance Party go alone, than if the Right and Advance Party have to cooperate with the Center. We have good experience in that in both the environment, assistance and a number of other things, the Right Policy becomes different when the Right must lean towards the centre, than if they had to lean towards the other edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e910	The representative Skei Grande joined the ranks of representatives who strongly argue for HV-016. I wonder: What is the readiness of Skei Grande that HV should have in the big cities? How fast are they going out? What should Home Protection be like if you want a faster response time for Home Protection than you have for the Army's Hunter Command/Defence Special Command? Do you want to have a professional shelter with professional soldiers? In line with the Left's soul, do you want to continue the Home Protection precisely as a popular defense and a mobilization defense, or is it going to be an elite defense? I think it's HV's job to be a public defense, and it's the task of the special forces to go into the kind of sharp operations that I think Skei Grande wants to use HV for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e919	We have no nostalgia associated with the term HV-016. What we have a concern for is linked to two points. It's the same thing that we talked about from the pulpit at the funeral, that this has organized a group of soldiers who have a lot of training, a lot of experience and a lot to do in the Norwegian defense. That is what is lost in this reorganisation. Secondly, we're concerned that they had some roles, for example. object protection in this city, as we absolutely marked that day, from this house, from this view, was not taken care of, that no one else had got this job. What we're concerned about is that someone should have that job. Who it is and how to organize this, we are open to. The nostalgia is not related to the term HV-016. The concerns are linked to the tasks they had, and the people they organized, and that it hasn't been done in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e926	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e930	I'd like to say that this is a very good debate. It is a political one, and it sets out the lines that show that the budget is an important political document. I have read the setting with great interest, and I will be allowed to praise the opposition's parties for very thorough comments, which I think are interesting and elaborated and with important input. Although there are remarks that have not gathered the majority, there are many good points there that we want to take with us. As the representative Højbrätten was in the house, this setting builds on some of the common good in Norwegian foreign policy. This is reflected in the treatment of broad programming messages on foreign and defence policy, but also when assessing the use of money, the importance of the north, Europe, the follow-up to the EEA Agreement, NATO membership, human rights, development and strategic positioning of Norway in a world of major changes. It is well worth saying that we experience reading this budget against the other country, another example of Norway being in a favourable position. Often the concept is that we are ‘privileged’, a little worn out, but we are in a favourable position, which gives us a room for action. It is, in my opinion, also a great responsibility in foreign policy. I notice that they say in the vote that the Reflex project has contributed to raising foreign policy debate outside this room too. I am pleased, and I believe that this project has contributed to stimulating debate throughout the country and especially among younger people. It's important. Otherwise, we recognize some main dividing lines in foreign and development policy, where the Progress Party points out – I will again underline – with well-substantiated claims and positions and really, for me, in a surprising number of areas, supported by the Right, while I agree with the representative Højbräten that a good budget improved following the changes made in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. Now the Development Minister will answer well in the area of development, but since some of these funds are below me, I would say, it is an honest thing to spend less money on development. And once again, it's argued by the opposition. But I think it's a good idea to have the claim that we're getting better at cutting, that we're getting more help using less. I'm quite open to spending money more wisely, learning from experience and putting them in where they deliver results, but almost that the reduction in itself opens up, I'm critical of, especially the Right note that you're kind of over-fused on a goal – just getting rid of the goal, the assistance gets smaller, it gets a little less volume, but it's better. I mean the 1 pst. goal is an important goal. It's hard to reach, and it also sets a level of ambition, and then we're going to distribute within it. Those who think that 1 pst. is too much in relation to the unresolved problems, I believe I am wrong. I would also like to say another thing: in this area, I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing the assistance, as it is given from Norway, more important than what it is expressed as from the government, than the strategic input factor for development. I see that if there is any government, by the Minister of Development, has done, it is to show the great picture of getting to development, having the right energy use and combating corruption, and of how many things to vote, in addition to what is given in aid from our country. We need to be strategic in aid, and we need to focus it on areas that can contribute to development, and we need to accept that there is a risk involved. So I'm wondering what's going on in the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Right Party and the Advance Party argue that they will cut down heavily on operations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because they can do so as a result of Norway not providing assistance to 113 countries but to a few. But what they're doing in this budget is cutting deep in that part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that doesn't provide assistance, but runs embassies, cutting into what we call the 02-area, i.e. areas that aren't within what the OECD sees as aid. That's where the Progress Party will cut down 169 million. NOK and Right 90 million. kr, while the operation of aid embassies is largely under heading 40. That's where they'll cut, too. But we cannot, like the Progress Party, cut both 169 million. kr and restore the embassy in Skopje, Macedonia. I remember – as you want in the setting – that it was probably also that you wanted to restore the Consulate General in Minneapolis. The impact of 169 million. I would like to estimate that there are 10 to 15 embassies in what we can call the Europe-USA area. I have not seen any suggestions about it. So I'll make some comments about some policy areas. On human rights: this is a priority of the government, which also receives a significant increase in the budget over that budget, and that is good reason for it. The Arab Spring has shown that work on democracy and human rights is beneficial. We are now witnessing great movements from the bottom of the country by country. The Government strengthens the work of democracy and human rights in this budget. We want to target the efforts in areas such as freedom of expression, human rights champions, observation of elections and democracy and the rule of law in the Middle East and North Africa. In total, it's set off over a 1⁄4 billion. NOK to this. In addition, we will use this to step up efforts against the death penalty, where Norway is strongly committed, and where we are targeting the World Congress against the Death Penalty in Madrid in 2013. We actively support the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and have concluded a three-year framework agreement here. We have also, as part of our governance in the UNDP, further supported this organisation by strengthening the rights perspective in terms of the cooperation between UNDP and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, so that this comes early in the development work. Here, we also need to find the balance between what Norway is doing multilaterally, with standards and standards in international organisations, and what we are doing bilaterally in those countries where we are active. As far as peace and reconciliation are concerned, I feel that there is support for it. The party of progress is skeptical and skeptical, and I respect that. But what surprises me in the comments, there are a number of speakers who have commented on this in the past, is that the Progress Party emphasises that Norway should only support countries with a high level of human rights, the rule of law and good values. I agree. Warning us against supporting processes where there are countries that are working against this, well -- I'm against giving support to people who are working against human rights, but if we are to get peace, development and reconciliation, it's usually between parties who disagree on this. And as former Prime Minister of Israel, Rabin, said: ‘You do not make peace with your friends, but with your enemies.’ So you have to engage in people that you don't necessarily want to be in the same political category as. I think it is Norway's courage to do this over time – under changing governments – that has given us the position we have. I find it strange that the opposition is going to boast in Norway that we are going to boast about the position in terms of peace and reconciliation – I think both the Minister for Development and I know that there is hard work, where there is a great risk of not achieving the ultimate goal. But again, Norway, in its position, duties to try. Finally to Russia. It's done selection. Let me say very clearly: these elections did not reach the standards that are European criteria for being free and fair elections. Not only elections contribute to this, but also the preparation of elections, the ability to register as candidates, the ability to access media in election campaigns and to do normal political work. I have wanted to say that it is nevertheless worth remembering that there is a great contrast between the Russia that has choices today and the Russia that 20-30 years ago was not close to it. Russia is in a transitional phase. The concern is: where will they be when that phase goes to the end – authoritarian democracy, only authoritarian or something in the direction of the democracy to which they are committed in accordance with European standards? The interesting thing is that the leaders of Russia experience the same thing as they do in other countries, namely that people from below tell us what they require of democracy and society. Social media contribute to it, not least young people contribute to it. If the average age in Tahrir Square was 23 years, I think it was also very low among the young people who were out on the streets of Russia this weekend. We are clearly telling our Russian colleagues about this. We did it as a principle in the OSCE last week, and we do it in the bilateral contacts we have, both at the level of office and at the political level. We have a human rights dialogue with Russia that gives us the opportunity to address this in a way that is heard and marked. Finally, I am pleased that we are very excited about foreign policy in this budget, a lot of good input that we also take with us from the opposition, in areas where they do not get a majority. I want us to have a broad and active debate on foreign policy, but that we can still appreciate that we agree on the broad outlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e965	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e968	First of all, when we talk about continuing diplomatic presence in Skopje, it is not necessarily an embassy. I will reject that. We support the government's view there, and Minneapolis has no intention of taking a rematch on it. The Foreign Minister described Russia and the situation there. We share that description -- Russia is something quite different than the Soviet Union. Also, positive things can be drawn out in this election, even though it was generally very negative. But how does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess the relationship with Norway? We saw, not least in North-West Russia, that the United Russia went back violently, and that a weakened government at home might act in a way that becomes more unpredictable. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we will meet new challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e975	I believe the description that we have never had such an extensive and good relationship with Russia as today is a momentary description. But I am not in any doubt for a moment that we have to follow this very closely, that the winds in Russia are blowing, that the balance of power between the regions and Moscow is a unstable size, and that there are quite strong nationalist statements precisely in our neighbouring regions of North-West Russia. Therefore, we must have great Russian knowledge, a great deal of soberness to what we observe, especially in an election year where there are profiled markers, among others. related to commercial interests. But I believe that Norway is well served – which I think we agree on in this room – long-term, predictable and consistent marking of Norwegian positions, authority and sovereignty. It's to recognize, and it gives us a speed of governance when we're going to deal with Russia. But we're going to have the starting point that we're going to come up with ideas and suggestions to develop this cooperation further, and that's the way we're going to work in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e980	I want to follow up the previous questioner. Looking at Norway’s efforts outside, there is no doubt that the risk to those out there doing a job on behalf of the nation is greatest in Afghanistan. If we then move to our northern regions, which are very important to the nation, and where the government and the Grand Duchy have the greatest ambitions, will I ask – in the extension of what the representative Höglund asked for – whether there is a great danger of a conflict between Norway and another nation elsewhere in the world than in the Northern Territories?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e987	I have not really stressed that we are at risk of a conflict between Norway and another nation. In Afghanistan, I believe we are not in conflict with a nation. So there we are involved in an internal conflict that is dangerous and it is armed. We have good neighbourhood relations with the countries around us, where we need to deal with conflicts of interest and conflict, even with our most related, and then we need to develop the means to manage it. Then we have pointed out that when we are working on missile defence in NATO, among other things, it is in order to be able to face future threats from long-range missiles in regions that we have never had to deal with in the past. It is about having a predictable defence, a predictable security policy. But it is not that Norway today points out nations with which we believe it is in danger of coming into that kind of conflict. Defence and security policy must nevertheless take that into account, so that we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e994	I am surprised to see how both the foreign minister and other representatives of the government parties are able to show a very large moral indignation over a cut in the aid budget of approx. 1 billion. kr from the right when, at the end of the financial year, there are 8 billion left. kr that the government is unable to use up. Well, basically, it's probably about whether we can raise 7 billion. kr instead of 8 billion. kr. But my question is about the UN Human Rights Council. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that he also wanted to take the recordings from the opposition where the opposition did not obtain a majority in the budget position. We have been a member of the Human Rights Council since 2009. Our membership lasts next year. On the opposition side, we have been very concerned about getting a thorough evaluation of both our work there and our efforts, and it is not a proposal that will be supported by the majority in the Chamber. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs nevertheless assure the Storting that a thorough review and evaluation of our work in the Human Rights Council will take place at the end of the period in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1001	There wasn't a bunch of moral indignant in my post. It was a political disagreement. There are others who express moral indignation better than I do in this room, and I leave it to them. Then I just want to reject what the representative Eriksen Soreide says about the money we can't spend. It's because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible in its payment that at the end of the year we always come into a situation where we wait to pay until we are sure that we can do so. So if Eriksen Soreide thinks we have some billions we could spend on something completely different, or let alone use, it's wrong. They will be useful, if necessary transferred, and this is the case in most budgetary cycles. I think we are now going to devote all our energies to implementing the last year as a member of the UN Human Rights Council and making a difference in the UN Human Rights Council. But then I can tell the representative and the committee leader that we're quite open to coming back with a thorough review of the experience as a member, what we've learned from it, what we can do better, and how we can work when we're not a member.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1010	I opened my main post by pointing to the situation in Syria, and there are reports from CNN right now that the al-Assad regime threatens with a bomb massacre unless the demonstrators surrender by night to Tuesday. This is something both Norwegian and other observers say that they fear can happen, that there is reason to take it seriously, and not least that there may be a repetition of the massacre of the father of al-Assad, Hafez al-Assad, in Hama in the 1980s, when very many people were killed. I also point out that the High Commissioner for Human Rights now estimates, moderately, that the number of civilians killed since March may be as many as 5,000 people, and that the regime does not show any signs of bending. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs both say something about the situation and characterise the regime as it is now, both in terms of human rights, in the light of history and in terms of what is now happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1019	A regime that cannot resolve its internal contradictions and organise politics in an inclusive way, and that must use military means against its people and kill them, has not earned the people's trust. Therefore, in October Norway said that this president could no longer be considered to have the confidence of the people and should go. Still, he has a responsibility when he is in power. Then you can ask, who really is responsible in Syria? How is this divided into the complex power structure such as the Baath Party, security services, etc. are they? I met politically, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Syrian opposition in my office last week and listened to their concerns, which was partly what the representative said, namely the fear of a massive attack on Homs, the city that is now surrounded by military vehicles. We share that concern. We are concerned that the Arab League must be in the leadership seat of the Syrian press – there is a marked change in position they now have than before – and not to play our cards in such a way that this will be a conflict between the West and Syria, which will provide the President with an additional card, but follow up the measures that are now being taken, and expect the UN Security Council to be reminded of something about Syria, which they to date have not made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1030	We got an important clarification in the Foreign Minister's posts. The choice in Russia does not meet European standards. There wasn't a bunch of moral indignation, but I realize there's a division of labour here in the hall at that point, so I shouldn't want it. But when the Foreign Minister says that it's much better than it was 20 years ago, no one disagrees. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that Russia is in a transitional phase; nor is it so difficult to disagree with it. But the question that boils down to is: Does the Foreign Minister think that the development of Russia in democracy and the implementation of elections is going from bad to better? Is there a positive development, or is there a negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1036	That's an interesting question. It depends on the time perspective, on the number of choices they have had, and on the evolution. This choice of switching power is something that has not yet been reflected in elections. I think that is a negative trend, but it is an internal issue in Russia. I believe that it is not a great deal of progress to track this choice in relation to the previous one. What we have now been documented online on the placement of additional ballot cards in ballot boxes is not very reliable. I would like to read thoroughly through the summaries made by the observers who have been present, before I compare them with the previous one. The important thing here is that Russia is able to develop a democracy that is supported by the people in elections – the elections here were not high – and that democracy is able to solve the challenges that the Russians are struggling with. It's a young democracy. It's a country that hasn't been through many of the political processes that have led to our democracy, so I guess we have hope that it's going in the right direction, but we have reason to be concerned after what we've seen in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1045	I also want to follow it up with Russia, because I think the Council of State is a little unclear on a point. In a previous reply, the Foreign Minister used the term ‘authoritarian democracy’ to refer to Russia. Then I want to ask the Council of State: what is authoritarian democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1052	We actually see that in some countries that organize elections, but where those with power have clear authoritarian features in the way they carry out their duties. I would like to say that what we are described as the Russian power vertical, namely that there is a concentration of power at the top, which conflicts with quite major problems related to corruption – very comprehensively described by the Russian President himself, Medvedev – are clear signs of authoritarian features. Other aspects of society are the use of power against demonstrators, limitations on the opposition's ability to make choices. It is therefore a country that arranges elections, which is judged against other democratic criteria, but which nevertheless has an authoritarian ice spot in management and in political culture – let us not forget it – see. the previous answer, namely traditions without strong democratic power-sharing principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1059	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1062	Many of our European neighbours are in a very difficult time and in a very demanding situation, where public budgets are cut heavily, and where we will have a long time to go. This also means that many countries find it difficult to maintain the level of aid budgets they have had. This has implications for the challenging work to be done internationally, including: working for the UN’s Millennium Goals, for work on peace and reconciliation, and for the commitment to energy and climate action. The Chairman of the Committee and the representative, Mr Høglund, criticised the government for being more concerned with reaching 1 pst. of GNI other than of the contents. That's wrong. But at a time when many countries are striving to get things going around, I think it is right that Norway holds a high level of the aid budget. Before the Committee began its examination of the budget, consultations were held, in which we got a lot of good input. In particular, on the basis of the recordings that several speakers have made, the government parties and the Christian People's Party sat down together to see if we should make some re-priorities within the framework of the budget. We agreed to that, and I want to thank the other three parties for the good cooperation. We chose to re-prioritize 100 million. kr. There are, in particular, two areas that we are raising, and that is education and agriculture. We strengthen the commitment to education through the Global Partnership for Education by 40 million. kr, and we are strengthening sustainable and climate-resilient agriculture by 40 million. kr. In addition, civil society receives 10 million. kr more and UN Women will receive another 10 million. kr. The last one I'm especially pleased with. The last few days have shown us how important women are to create social change. The UN Women’s Organisation is a key player in contributing to gender equality worldwide. What is most demanding in policy is to give priority to it. But as everyone here knows, it's part of the job. Each time the State budget is examined, the financial position proposes to cut aid from the Progress Party. It's a clear priority, but it's also a big cut. It can sometimes seem easy to move numbers, but you have to realize that it has consequences. A few of the proposals for the Progress Party are of great concern to me, especially given that they have ambitions to take up the government offices after 2013 and put their policies into practice. Norway has a long tradition of trying to contribute to a positive development in the Middle East, particularly in relation to the establishment of a Palestinian State. The Progress Party wants to cut aid to the Middle East and North Africa by 30 pst. The consequences of such a cut would be directly detrimental to the state-building project. If the Palestinian authorities were to be strongly supported, this would include, among other things: are not able to pay wages to public employees. That is what the last Palestinians need, especially at a time when Israel is holding back the Palestinians' own tax revenue. The Progress Party also wants a strong cut in the UN Organisation for the Palestinian Refugees, an organisation mandated to respect their fundamental rights, which stands for humanitarian aid, education and health care, and not least is important for many people in Gaza. In all the debates on assistance, the topic of corruption is addressed, and that is important. I want to clarify: Norway is going to have zero tolerance on corruption. Norway has implemented many anti-corruption measures, which have been reported by the Minister for Development here in the United Kingdom on several occasions. The progress party often spends a lot of time on this topic, but I think they have a little simple approach to the matter. It seems that they believe that corruption will end if Norway withdraws assistance from the country. My position on this is that it is important for Norway to be present and to combat corruption, not the opposite. Yesterday I was in a very interesting debate with Norad, where the representative Peter N. Myhre was present. He thought we should fillle more African leaders. He may think it will work in the fight against corruption, but I have more faith in other measures, such as helping countries to achieve a more open economy, state-building, good tax systems and democratic processes that will bring about long-term development. Finally, I would like to say that I am proud to belong to this side of Norwegian policy, and the majority here in Stortinget, who believe it is important that Norway takes a great deal of responsibility internationally and calls for the level of assistance. A world so hard hit by poverty and conflict needs countries to take responsibility, and the majority in the United Kingdom has shown that they are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1081	Let me first begin by sending a greeting and congratulations to all those who are out doing a job on behalf of the nation of Norway, with or without uniform, but who have an ambition to do as best they can within the mission they are given, and do a job of which there is great respect. They deserve every kind of reward from this pulpit. Let me also send a congratulations to the Voluntary Shooter Service, who, through an intense and active work on the Stortinget, has shown that things can be moved even if the Stortinget is robust and sometimes very conservative. So once again, there's respect for that race. Let me also send a thank you to the Canadian Parliament which has contributed to the understanding of the Norwegian fighter aircraft purchase, which I expect the Minister of Defence to come back to later. Since I am in the office of the Minister of Defence, let me also congratulate the new Minister of Defence and welcome him to his first defence debate here. Then to the budget as such: I record that the position rightly says that it is a bet. Yes, it is. I have no problem admitting that 0.65 pst. i plus, still is a plus, and in that way it'll probably give a big armstroke for next year. If it will represent a significant dramatic change in the positive direction, however, I am not quite sure. But anyway, when I read the defence budget, I think, what are the assumptions? What's the basic idea behind it? The crucial question is: what is governing the budget? Is it the Ministry of Finance that does this by saying: Here's your framework, Minister of Defence Espen Barth Eide? Or is it the needs, our national security policy needs, that govern? Is that the long-term plan, or is there no control at all – cf. National audit sometimes makes clear comments on the dynamics of big business, government and national audit? This is, with all possible respect, no attack on the employees of the Defence Force. It is more a challenge for the defence as an institution, because a large proportion of Norwegian taxpayers’ money is managed, and then it is important to achieve the objectives set. I am also aware, of course, that the long-term plan is governing, but the challenges are: Is the long-term plan good enough? Is the analysis tool good enough? Are we able to foresee the difficult things? The predictable thing is it's quite unproblematic, I think, budgeting for, but that's the unknown that's the hard part. And how do we handle it? Then it would have been tempting to ask: who is this who with his hand on his heart can say that you predicted the fall of the wall? Who predicted September 11th? Who predicted July 22nd? Who thought Norway would be more than 10 years old in Afghanistan? I don't think the most people here in the name of honesty can say, yes, I knew that. I knew all of this. In that case, I bend in the dust for that kind of knowledge, because it has at least not signed up. The point is that something is happening to our challenges, and how we have to deal with what we don't have direct control of ourselves. In addition, we depend on doing a job with our allies, within the UN system and in relation to NATO, and not least making sure that we are clear when it comes to safeguarding our own sovereignty, among other things. above the northern areas, which are pronounced as a main field of activity. The political job is to find the balance point here. For me, the northern regions are one of our major concerns. I'm afraid that in the situation they're in now, a Russian could contribute to a situation up there that might start with a small fishing conflict, if I can use that term, and which in worst cases escalates to something else, because you have Russian leaders who want to show muscles. Sometimes the largest equipment counts. I understand that also applies when it comes to defence and, not least, ‘deterrence’, which is a great concept. Then it is that if the Russian fleet sails off the Norwegian fleet, I am afraid that we have a challenge, with all sorts of respect. Let's hope we don't get there. Let me also say something about Afghanistan and once again give honor to all those who have been there and done an excellent job. As the chairman of the committee was before today: when the committee is out and traveling, Norwegian forces are given an incredible reward for the quality of their efforts. That's why I'm proud to be a little piece of it that makes it possible. When you're down there and you meet people, maybe the most Afghans themselves, you're fascinated and impressed by the joy and the capacity for life, given the conditions they have, that we can just watch on TV. I had almost said fortunately. Yet they have an intensity and a desire for positiveness that we can envy them many times. We've been there for more than ten years. We've lost human life down there. We've spent an awful lot of money down there, and now we're about to withdraw. One of my big concerns is, what happens when we pull out? My main concern is that Afghanistan is going from bad to worse. I totally agree that the transition is the great honor word; we're going to transfer power. But the question is, what do we do if we don't succeed in Afghanistan – if the situation goes from bad to worse? When I was on my last trip in Afghanistan in June, there was a comprehensive message from all the official teams: Do what you want, and we're ready when you pull out, but make sure we have the means to pay the army and the police. If this isn't going to escalate, because we have well-trained and well-equipped people, who are going to do anything other than what we need. That's one of my big concerns. There I hope that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are conscious of his responsibility. Since we have been there for so long and have done so much, we must make sure that it is not a vacuum, but that we are still ‘hands on’. Not surprisingly, I intend to say a little about a certain visit to the Canadian Parliament and a meeting held on 24 November this year. I also assume, as I said, that the Minister of Defence is going to say something about it. The undersigned had an interpellation in this Chamber on 27 October to Mr Faremo, Minister of Defence at that time, on the consequences of the purchase of the Norwegian fighter aircraft. The framework and the basis of the debate at that time was 145 billion. kr, which was the known number. My question at the time was, how do we finance this? What is the consequence for other weapons when the Air Force is going to make an investment that is the largest mainland Norway has ever made? There is no doubt that there are concerns in the Army, at least as I understand it. There are concerns in the Navy, and there are concerns in Homeland. When we're going to write a check on the size that the fighter planes will require of us, the question is, what does that mean for the others? We have also heard Svein Roald Hansen say something about the defense's ability to make self-saving. It has reached the ambition and the requirement that the defence was imposed. Yes, they have taken their share. But here the numbers are so large that I want to look at it as, I would almost say, a political violation if you expected the defense to cover a substantial part of a bill of 145 billion. kr – that's bad enough, but 230 br. kr is dramatic, to say it carefully. As if that were not enough, I am surprised, and I am provoked: if the record that I read from the Canadian Parliament yesterday is correct, where it says that Secretary of State Roger Ingebrichtsen and contreadmiral Røksund operate with an estimated 230 billion. So it's going to be 60 pst. In Norway, the number of problem drug users is higher than that of those known today. If that's the way the Minister of Defense is going to say that we have a different number, I'm going to ask questions in advance: why isn't the Storting familiar with it? If you have other numbers than the Big One is familiar with, why don't you inform the Big One? There are several ways to ensure dialogue and interaction with Stortinget. The government has not chosen that. A new methodology has been chosen here, so the information for the Norwegian big business via another parliament – creative, but I am not sure if it is particularly despicable. I will be surprised if not the statement by State Secretary Roger Ingebreichsen that this was a technical adjustment, a beautiful day will be experienced as very interesting reading on the National Auditor's table. Actually, I don't think you can operate like that. As I said, it is disrespectful, and I think it is an approach that is not acceptable. I therefore look forward with great interest to hearing what the Minister of Defence has to say, not to his defence, but to explaining the facts in the matter. Then I guess I can't leave this pulpit in such an important debate without saying anything about Homeland Protection. There are different opinions and perceptions of what Homeland Protection is going to do. Let me go back to last autumn when there was a genuine political debate here on HV-016s 'to be or not to be'. For the part of the Progress Party, the term ‘HV-016’ is not important. The name is immaterial, but what we want is forces that have capacity, capability and not least volume to stand in situations over a long period of time where the police need relief. At the same time, I think it is very important to ensure that the aid tool does not become larger than the primary tool. It is the police in Norway who have the responsibility to deal with any civil crisis — including terrorist attacks initially. But the defense will assist if necessary. Then the defense must have the capacity to do so. In this way, I look forward to also cleaning up the situation around the Home Office once and for all. As it is now, we end up with a lot of nice but highly frustrated people, and I don't think the Storting wants that. I don't even think the Minister of Defense really wants to do that. Here we have a job to do. In the end, sailing days in the north: Since the government claims that the northern regions are the most important strategic area for the future, I am surprised that the Marine does not use more than 25 pst. of its sailing time in the northern regions. If it's impressive, it's impressive from a different point of view than from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1113	Development policy is far more than aid, but paradoxically it is the assistance that receives most of the political attention in Norway. In addition, the interest appears to be most related to percentages and not to effect. With this article, I want to make visible what is the main right moment in development policy until, and also after, a possible government shift in 2013. Right wants to turn both focus and policy away from just heads and ears and over to goals and goals. The aim of the right is not to cut aid substantially, but the aim must be to make itself redundant by providing a basis for economic growth, prosperity and independence. It is important to emphasise coherence in development policy, i.e.: to contribute to the need for all Norwegian policies towards poor countries to move in the same direction – whether in terms of trade policy, assistance, education or health policy. The right-wing objectives of development policy are to contribute to increased democratisation, respect for human rights and to contribute to the sustainable eradication of poverty. The main objectives of the aid policy must be 'do no harm'. We need to recognise that, in some cases, traditional development policies and assistance have crossed central Norwegian objectives. The right will never accept that Norwegian-supported projects go across these key development policy objectives. Norway has a moral responsibility to promote freedom and social responsibility, democracy, environmental protection and human rights. There is a close link between democracy and respect for human rights. You don't get one without the other. Not only is democracy and respect for human rights important in itself, it also provides a good basis for societies where personal initiative can generate growth and prosperity. Norway should not be afraid of setting requirements for the country of destination. In particular, democratic development, good governance and anti-corruption must be required of the recipients. Right does not want to provide budget support or other direct support to public authorities in countries where development is in the wrong direction. A prerequisite for being a central beneficiary of Norwegian assistance must be clear signs of democratisation and respect for fundamental human rights. This also applies even if the recipient countries are central to achieving other important development goals. Norway must be clear about criticism of human rights violations also against countries where such offences may have major consequences, for example. for Norwegian economic interests. The right considers that Norwegian development policy should play a role with local policy authorities where possible, and encourage local ownership of priorities and projects funded by Norwegian funds. If aid funds override local wishes and priorities, there is a risk of weakening rather than strengthening responsibilities between the people and their representatives. Such a desire to build up under new democracies will require that we also accept decisions that we do not necessarily agree with, but a development that goes beyond universal human rights, we will always respond sharply to. It's economic growth that has lifted the vast majority of people out of poverty in the last 15 years. Therefore, it is a primary objective of the Right that our development policy should contribute to economic growth. Of course, that growth needs to be distributed. It's up to each country. An increasing proportion of the world's poor are in middle-income countries. This is primarily a distribution challenge, not a development problem. Democratisation and strengthening of civil society are more appropriate instruments to address this problem. An important and positive aspect of recent growth in the world economy is that a number of developing countries have undergone major modernisation and industrialisation. Extensive value creation is taking place in areas that were previously economically closest to the state. However, secure access to energy is a prerequisite for continued economic growth, and will contribute to raising millions out of poverty and reaching the UN's Millennium Goals on poverty reduction. Production and consumption are important for current well-being. Sustainable production and consumption are even more important to ensure the well-being of tomorrow. We need economic growth, but it has to be sustainable. Zero growth makes it impossible to combat poverty – the main threat to life. But growth at the cost of the environment makes it impossible to preserve the most important source of life – our natural heritage. Globalisation and international free trade are much stronger development engines than assistance, but this has had a limited impact on aid policy. Trust in assistance has remained high and the level of ambition has remained high. In parallel with significant aid efforts, Norway has maintained high customs barriers and defended a trade policy that creates effective barriers to the export opportunities of developing countries. This is a striking contradiction in Norwegian policy. Trade and economic growth are the strongest drivers of bringing people out of poverty permanently. Therefore, improving the ability of developing countries to participate in the global economy is a prerequisite for bringing people out of poverty. Oxfam calculated that if Africa increased its share of world exports by only 1 pst, it would generate increased revenues of about 70 billion. dollar. Right will focus on aid for Africa. It's where the majority of the world's poor is, and a lot of countries need assistance to evolve. Today, over half of the world’s countries receive Norwegian aid. It's too high a number. Although we never want a measure, it's natural to assume that a few years into a bourgeois period of government will be a place between 25 and 40. Thematically, the Right will contribute to our two main objectives. The main measures will be the removal of trade restrictions, health, education, clean energy and support for civil society and institution building. Budgetary support is also a good tool for countries with good parliamentary control. At the same time, it is a very poor tool for countries with poorly developed democracy and institutions. The right will completely eliminate the use of budgetary support for regimes that do not have good parliamentary control and/or move away from democratic principles. Budget support is also not an appropriate instrument in countries with low transparency and high corruption in the economy and in financial management. Most of the world's poor countries are agricultural. 75 pst. of the world's poor lives in rural areas. Exports of few raw materials or agricultural products are often the main source of income for poor developing countries in order to finance their development plans. Developing countries with a one-sided export structure are vulnerable when crops fail or world market prices fluctuate sharply. There is therefore a need to differentiate the economy and to have a broader export base. Here, the development of the agricultural sector with a view to greater local processing of goods and diversification of several products and industries will be central. According to the World Bank, 1 pst. the growth of the agricultural sector is about four times more effective in reducing poverty than growth in other sectors. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party on their commitment to moving funds to climate-resilient agriculture in negotiations with the government parties. The objective of the Higher Development Policy is as much development as possible — not as much assistance as possible. All instruments should be measured against the results achieved. One challenge is that it has traditionally been easier to measure effort than to measure results. A focus on results requires regular evaluation and a strong political and administrative willingness to draw the consequences of such evaluations. Therefore, the Right wants to carry out regular evaluations of Norwegian aid — multilateral, bilateral and humanitarian — carried out by UN organisations as well as small non-governmental organisations. It would be natural to implement a comprehensive re-allocation of funds between different actors, for example: Every five years. That is how we will encourage open debate, learning and innovation. However, performance orientation in development policy is not without dilemmas. Firstly, it is often difficult to measure results. Secondly, the outcome orientation is criticised for promoting small, concrete projects that are easy to measure — and demonstrable — rather than larger and more complex projects. Furthermore, an excessive focus on the effectiveness of aid may weaken other important aid policy objectives, such as local ownership and capacity building. It is easier and faster to build a school than to assist national authorities in planning, dimensionalising and building a national school system, but the long-term development impact is much greater in recent years. There is a significant need to respond to voters’ demands for information and transparency about the use of the assistance money. Right will provide increased knowledge and full transparency on the results of Norwegian development and assistance policies. We will therefore publish all information, from application to evaluation. Such transparency will also have the effect of improving projects and reducing corruption and facilitating the fight against them. In order to achieve its objectives, assistance must also develop more precise performance targets and strengthen control of the achievement of its objectives. On the right, a wide range of international participations will be set down to make recommendations on the criteria to be used to measure the impact of Norwegian development policies and how best to carry out evaluations. The right-hand priority. Our two main objectives are to promote democracy and human rights while Norwegian development policy contributes to bringing people out of poverty permanently.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1172	With the 2012 draft defence budget, the government invites Stortinget to final funding for the 2009-2012 long-term plan. The draft budget is 100 pst. of the increase in appropriations taken into account in the long-term plan — not 96 pst, as in the period 2002–04, or 98 pst, as in the period 2005–08, but 100 pst. I'm proud to be part of a government that makes such a proposal, but I'm also very happy to be part of a magnificence where there's such a broad dissension about the main features of defence policy. The framework is supported by the majority of the Committee, but all parties base the adopted structure. I am also very proud that the Defence delivers what is promised by modernisation, efficiency and visible operational deliveries. This budget will ensure enhanced operational capability in the Defence: The defence industries and HV will receive more money in 2012. Our ships will sail more. Our soldiers will practice more. The sharp end will have more people. We'll get material for more than 8 billion. kr. We're betting more than ever in the north. Defence in Norway is at the forefront of international affairs, both in terms of migration and in terms of budgetary levels. With many of our allies, the defence budgets go down while brutal changes stand at the door. Norway, for its part, has left behind much of the change that others are now forced to do, and as one of the very few countries in Europe, we have increased the appropriations allocated to the defence effectively every year for the whole long term. So we can build a new one, build it up and expand it. We have secured a solid basis for adapting to new security policy challenges without throwing the whole structure up for revision every four years. This is precisely creating a long-termity and predictability that is good to have, facing a Europe in crisis and a rapidly changing world. The fact that central allies are now cutting hard, makes it extra important to keep order in their own house and use resources as best they can. Over the period, we have taken clear and clear steps to shift resources from base and support structures to operational capabilities. When you carry out extensive transformations that we have now undergone, the gains do not come immediately. This is a question on which the representative Svein Roald Hansen was clearly involved. It costs before it starts to taste, and that's exactly why many countries have refused to take these necessary steps, because the gains come only gradually, perhaps beyond the next choice, while the costs come now. I am therefore very happy to say that the positive effects of the conversion are now materializing. We see increased operational capability in all defenses and HVs. Hard work to secure long-term gains has been prioritised over populist short-term. At the beginning of the period this cost, and it has been pointed out several times today, and from the Riksrevision, that the level of exercise in, for example, 2010 was significantly lower than we would like. But it was also announced. It was announced both in the long-term plan itself and in the annual budgets. We chose to take that cost. The objectives of the long-term plan concerned the level to be achieved by the end of 2012 – not something to be achieved in the middle of the period. It is precisely these grips, the impact display and a number of long-term investments that will give us a defence at the end of 2012 that will balance tasks, resources and structure – for the first time in many decades. This is simply the modernisation of the public sector on a very large scale. The completion of the long-term plan involves: A significant increase in activity from 2009 to 2012 in all defence sectors and HV. More practice, more practice, and more practice. Massive modernisation with investments in new materials, property, construction and installations has taken place. The operational centre of gravity has moved northwards. Other, including: The representative, Eriksen Soreide, has stressed the need for the Army to exercise at Brigade level. It's also quite right that it didn't do it in 2010. But it is a pleasure to note that it did so in 2011, and it will also do so – the so-called Rein exercise, with 4,000 participants – in 2012, precisely because these arrests have been carried out. There has also been talk about the Sea Defense sailing day, not least in the northern regions. It is therefore a pleasure to be able to say that while the sailing days for maritime defence were just under 1000 days in 2010, they will now be 1628 days, as planned. So this is a considerable improvement also in relation to sailing days. The budget of the Home Office is considerably strengthened, with an actual increase of 54 million. kr. Training and training are increasing, and HV will achieve the long-term objectives of the draft budget. 50 pst. by the territorial structure shall be exercised and the budget shall facilitate virtually the entire territorial structure to be trained during the two-year period 2011 to 2012. Home protection will have received a total of 700 million material. kr during the planning period. This is important and joyous, because – as many people have been involved – the very central importance of Homeland Security in security of preparedness and society has been further updated following the events of 22 July. The further development of strong, well-trained and accessible home protection, not least through the forces of intervention, will be a special priority for me as Minister of Defence. Coast Guard budgets have also increased over the planning period and the level of appropriations has increased by 49 million. kr. The coastguard is also getting an increase this year. As mentioned at the outset, I note that the opposition in the setting actually adheres to the main priorities laid down by the government. There are no proposals for major repriorities, but we find some additions. As you can see, this budget debate seems to be a mere battle of crowns. I would therefore like to remind you that the central objective of the long-term plan was to ensure sustainable development through a systematic and planned approach to the whole. The defence sector requires a firm governance, a clear vision and a fixed course. The opposition's previous resistance to the necessary structural curve would quickly eat up the additions they are now proposing, and more than that. The government provides a historical budget in the sense that what we promised to do is also implemented. At the same time, the real challenges we have with us. We have challenges, as described in the proposal, in relation to supplier delays, which means that we do not get material at the time we want. This applies, inter alia, to: Shield-class vessel. And even though the NH-90 helicopters have started coming, they're still heavily delayed. Nor is there any doubt that in 2012 we will have to work hard to address the administrative challenges that the sector continues to face. This is important in order for the Storting to ensure that the money is spent as efficiently as possible, in the light of the decisions taken. I want to give this work a very high priority, as it is still a long way to go until the situation is as it should be in this field. Then I'd like to say a few words about what's been a big topic today, cost calculations related to fighter aircraft acquisition. I would like to begin by saying that I agree with the representatives of Eriksen Soreide, Højlund, Høybrätten, Trine Skei Grande and several others that it is of course not supposed to be such as to bring new information into the Parliament of Canada or any other country until you bring it into the Grand Duchy. I want close and good cooperation with the Storting in this great and important acquisition, as in all other matters. But I will also be allowed to clarify that what has been said has not been about new calculations. The figure reported by the former Head of Expedition, Roksund, is the exact same cost calculation — exactly the same — as the Stortinget was known in 2008. What makes him use a different number is that he has chosen to use real dollars from the 2011 starting point, instead of the 2008 current value calculation. So it's not an adjusted estimate of what the cost is, it's another way of expressing the same number. The number that's turned up hasn't heard the Storting before. But this way of calculating, the Storting is well familiar with. It will be remembered that when my predecessor invited Stortinget – and got a connection – to the acquisition of training aircraft, an update was made of the investment cost for new fighter aircraft. What in its time was known as 42 billion. NOK, which was the present value in 2008, was in 2011 in real terms $61 billion. NOK, or more specifically 60,2 plus a small increase in the real cost. So it's exactly – and I say exactly – the same calculation that Roksund chose to express when he answered a question about how our calculations take place. I again stress that there should be no doubt that new numbers should come here first, and so do they. Because I plan to come here with an updated basis early in the spring. What we've heard so far is simply another way of expressing the same number based on a calculation that is in principle known. But I repeat the need for a close and good dialogue on these issues. I am proud of a defence that not only delivers conversion and operational capability at home but also reaps international recognition for its foreign contributions. There's every reason to continue the line that the government has laid down in this period, and we'll come back to that even after 2012, with the new long-term defence plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1250	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1253	I intend to challenge the Minister of Defense to join a hypothetical exercise. If the Minister of Defence could be so kind as to change and for a moment think of being Russian Minister of Defence, how worried would he be about the construction and presence of his neighbour in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1258	Now it is not my purpose for the Russian Minister of Defence to be as concerned as possible. I believe that having a good dialogue on that scale will contribute to good conditions. But we have now invested in Europe, perhaps the most modern navy, with considerable impact, much more modern than any neighbor – I stress some neighbors – has. We are in the process of acquiring a very competent fighter aircraft that is in absolute international special class, and we have just demonstrated through the efforts in Libya the ability of our already existing fighter aircraft. I'm adding that if any neighbors were to be interested in the military capability of the Defense, this is a matter you might notice. But I repeat that I hope that we will maintain a close and good relationship with my Russian colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1264	This was good news – everything is well maintained in the Norwegian defence. Problems don't exist, you have money for everything you need, and everything is very well. Now it is the case that the defense has received a lot of Christmas from the National Audit Office in recent years, and then my question is: Does this report from the Council of State mean that we can now expect an audit report from the Defence Agency for the financial year 2012 that is completely without any critical comments, and where the Riksrevision can proudly point out that everything is as it should be in the Norwegian defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1271	To Peter N. Myhre's question I would say that I think I should be very careful to suggest what the Riksrevision will write in a year. I think we should assume that, as I mentioned from the pulpit, we have major challenges, among other things. in relation to the management and turnover of existing investment funds, which I am going to take very seriously, and will underline, and would like to engage more in dialogue with the Stortinge on how we can meet, although we have not seen, for many years now, the large budget excesses that we, for example. known from 2004, where the National Audit Office simply did not approve the defence budget. This has not happened again. When it comes to meeting the long-term objectives of structure and operational capacity, I say with my heart: I think we're going to go out in full – or almost full – balance between structure, ambition and resources, as we described it, and that's what my goal is to achieve the long-term plan that the Stortinget has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1278	I think the statement made by the Minister of Defence about the new figures is quite confusing. I think it's just that the Storting can't stick with the swings. Why is it that contreadmiral Røksund says that these are not public numbers? At the same time, the Council of State today says that these numbers are known by the Storing. But the fact is that we had to summon Barth Eide's predecessor, Faremo, to the extraordinary open hearing to extract the number 145 billion. kr from her. So we've now come up with a situation where, on the one hand, the Council of State says that the number is known, but on the other hand, he concludes that the number we haven't heard before, but the way to calculate it we've heard before. What kind of numbers have we really become familiar with from the Biggest side before?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1283	I thank the representative Kristiansen for this question, which gives me an opportunity to clarify once more: the difference in current value and real dollars dry The Stortinget is familiar with both from all other major acquisitions and from this case, because as late as in our treatment of the acquisition of four training planes, and then informed that it was 42 billion. kr in present value 2008-krone, converted to 2011-krone and real value is above 60 billion. kr. As I said, the number Røksund has used in the United States, which I understood he almost calculated quickly to answer a question from a Canadian asker, not known before, but Røksund has not wanted to express that there is a new estimate of the costs. He's based on 145 billion. NOK, which we also used when we presented the fighter aircraft proposal in December 2008. I don't realize you've had to draw it out of the former state council, because it's in the fighter aircraft proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1288	As late as October 27th, the representative Ellingen had an interpellation here in Stortinget, and then it was the same figure picture as in June. So what's the explanation now is that the strange discount solution, with the interest rate base of 2 pst, and a real cost increase of 2 pst, i.e. projected numbers, makes it appear from October that there's an increase in real lifetime costs over 30 years of 90 billion. kr. Seemed to be the state council, despite the fact that you've invested $740 million. kr in a new accounting system in the Ministry of Defence, that this is a way of explaining and guiding the Storting? Or is this suitable for putting the Storting in embarrassment, that you don't know what you're talking about when it comes to this giant investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1298	Once again, I want to start by saying that I want us in the further work on fighter planes to have a close and good dialogue with all parties, and that the Storting knows at all times what the Storing decides, and that the government is at all times clear about what it is asking the Storing to decide. With respect to discounting and the way in which to calculate present value versus real dollars, there is, with all due respect, not something that has been found in the Ministry of Defence, but there are rules on how to obtain larger public acquisitions in Norway. What's going on with this acquisition is that the number of billions is so many that the results are all the same. But there was a thorough review of the committee's initiative in our calculation method, and that's why I'm referring to the fact that 42 billion is already known. kr and above 60 brd. kr in terms of the investment cost itself, i.e. the same money, expressed in two different ways in two different time horizons and in terms of the distinction between present value and real value. It may be demanding for someone each, but I'm going to make sure that we have a good dialogue on how to understand these numbers, and there's no news in this information from Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1305	I must thank the Council of State for a thorough review of the matter. Not that I'm going to take on my generation's burden and stand here on behalf of the future generation, but I'm going to be honest that when we deal with this matter in our big group, I was quite critical and skeptical, because there's a fast increase in expenses. And when I woke up to the evening post today, there were two things I bit me notice. The first was, of course, 90 billion. kr more, which seemed to me violent. The second was that it was not public in Norway yet. But based on what the Council of State now says, I'm trying to lower my shoulders a little bit, even though I'm constantly sitting with some uncertainty that there might be new information, whether there's something new that makes it more expensive. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State whether he has information now showing that it can be more expensive, or whether he has the opportunity to cancel it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1310	I thank the representative Rupstad for that question. I come to the Stortinget in our, estimated February, with updated figures for the recalculation of life. So I'm going to be a little careful in suggesting which way it goes. But to be careful, it's likely that it's getting better than worse, compared to the numbers we've used in the past. Our previous numbers have hit quite well. My main concern today is more about delays than on the cost picture. But I say this with all sorts of reservations that there will be new information, and that it is a patchwork of different conditions, among other things. the number of other countries buying how many aircraft. But I'm going to the Stortinget with a thorough review of it, and so it's my ambition that we all understand what we're talking about, because no matter what billions you spend, there's a lot of billions. It's the taxpayers' dollars, and they're going to be used in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1315	For this year, the government introduces 65 G as the maximum compensation for the damage caused by the defence veterans under the special compensation scheme for those injured before 1 January 2010. A prerequisite for triggering this maximum amount is to demonstrate causality under the same strict requirements as for objective liability. A simplified requirement of proof, which was the basis for the whole implementation of the scheme in due course, then has a maximum ceiling of 35 G for the veterans injured before 1 January. After all, it is a principle that recognises the weaknesses that exist, with everything from protocoling, access to logs, sanitary data, etc. Does the Minister for Defence think that such discrimination within a single system is in line with the principle of equal compensation for equal damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1322	I would first like to thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for the commitment and say that I am very pleased with the mention of the entire veteran issue in the position, because it is essentially very broad agreement on the main features of the big bet that the government has made for veterans in recent years. I believe that if 65 G were introduced with less stringent requirements for those who had been injured before 1 January 2010 and maintained strict requirements after 2010, that would not be non-discrimination. It would simply be easier to get compensation at the same level if you had been injured earlier. Here an overall assessment has been made that because it is more difficult to document old damage than new damage, one has been simpler, but at the same time set a lower limit of 35 G instead of 65 G. That's the decision that's been made, and I don't have the intention to change it in this round. But we always want to make a run to make our handling of the veterans as good as possible, and we are very close to doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1334	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1337	In 2008, Stortinget addressed the long-term defence plan for the years 2009-2012. The long-term plan is a very important document for our defence. We are now at the end of the period, and through the 2012 draft budget, a four-year long-term plan will be fully funded for the first time in several decades. The question is, where do we stand today? After three long-term plans with increasing achievement, the transition from a traditional mobilization defence to a modern response defence has been implemented. We have a defense that is relevant and that holds a high international standard. We safeguard our national interests and rights, and rights in the northern regions, and we participate in operations on behalf of the international community. We could not have done this without a competent crew and modern material. However, I see that the working situation of some in many cases can be burdensome, not least because of our involvement in Afghanistan. I also see that this has worn out the defence's total resources. I would nevertheless commend our soldiers who, despite the heavy burden, are presenting Norway in this demanding contribution. For that reason, it is also important to honor our veterans for the job they have done. As a nation, we have a responsibility to give our veterans the rights and the support and recognition they claim and not least deserve. We're following this up now. In this year's budget, we are committed to strengthening the specific compensation scheme for mental damage. We do this with a two-part division, which means that the victim can get 65 G at 100 pst. disability in the case of psychological injury where the same evidence requirements and evidence subject to the statutory objective responsibility of the Armed Forces Act § 12(b) are met. That is to say, ‘The general requirements for causality apply. There must be a probability balance that the service in an international operation is the cause of the psychological damage’. In addition, the original compensation scheme is continued by 35 G at 100 pst. disability, with the less restrictive conditions to be applied there. I am pleased that we have managed to arrive at such an improved system, assuming and expecting that the damage to the veterans who could be covered by this system will be met in a respectful and decent manner. Another special area I want to mention is the Voluntary Sniper Service. Here, a Joint Committee has come up with a solution that the DFS should be guaranteed the same allocation it received in 2011, i.e.: 31.2 million. kr. That's good, because DFS has a very important role in Norwegian society, among other things. by operating the firing range used for the training of the Home and Police, the training of young and adults in weapons, the completion of large-scale pilot tests for large-scale fighters and the maintenance of the annual Sniper Committee, to mention something. But DFS also needs to adapt to a new era and that defence delivery is no longer the same. Therefore, from the Labour Party, we assume that the DFS will use the next year for the necessary conversion in the light of the new guidelines for the granting of operational and activity support to the Ministry of Defence budget. So a little bit more general about the defence budget. This year's budget adds up to an increase in activity in all defence sectors, which is good. The budget is therefore a good starting point for the work we are going to do in the context of the new long-term plan that we are going to discuss in spring 2012. There is also a great deal of agreement on the priorities in the 2012 budget, although the Right and Advance Party have a little more money than we do. The challenge in the coming years will be to maintain and improve our response response. We are already seeing that the investment in combat aircraft will require additional appropriations in the coming years. New investments such as the renewal of the submarine weapon must also be in place. This will require a lot of us. At our allies we see great reductions in the defence budgets, which will also require us to take greater responsibility for our own security than before. Norway is in a privileged situation. Therefore, we still need to ensure predictable framework conditions for the defence and maintain the long-term integrity of how we get the most defence out of invested crowns. We must work for integrated cooperation solutions in the Nordic countries and in NATO. At the same time, we also have to keep order in our own house. That is why I hope for cross-political agreement on these issues also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1368	The government has once again put forward a proposal to set aside 27 billion. kr for aid and development aid to the poor countries of the world. In 2010, the world’s donor country spent 850 billion dollars. D on aid to the Third World. Since many have been concerned about it: the Progress Party proposes a little less use of money in this area. Some have called for the ethical aspects of the proposals of the Progress Party. Well, if the draft budget of the Progress Party is adopted, Norway's contribution will be in line with what it was under the Bondevik II Government. Per capita, with the assistance budget of the Progress Party, we will be at the top of the European countries. Norway is No. 12 on the list of the world's donor country. Our 27-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr represents approx. 3 pst. of what the Western world is spending on development and assistance. Several billion of our development budgets go to forest action – a little on the side of what can be said to be development. Forest measures deprive many people of jobs and income. This could mean that other measures to promote growth and development are even more necessary in forest management. Most of the countries receiving Norwegian aid are characterised by corruption. Corruption makes economic growth and development of wealth and well-being difficult. See Tanzania: Norway has been providing help to Tanzania for 50 years. Norway has given the country 23 billion. kr for these 50 years. Of course, this has had an effect. But that's not the weird thing. Poverty is overwhelming in Tanzania. The country lags behind every year that goes. People live in log cabins, tents, or wavehouses, or they just sleep on the pavement, under the open sky. Where has it become of the 23 billion? Are they used over and over again to promote growth and prosperity? No, unfortunately, much has probably gone away without reaching those who need it the most. Corruption is measured on a scale from 1 to 10, where 10 means the absence of corruption and 1 means that corruption is overwhelming. According to Transparency International, Tanzania had a corruption factor of 3 in 2008. Recently, the Transparency International report came for 2011, and Tanzania is still at 3.0. So it's not getting any better. A little bit better, on the other hand, it's been in Mozambique. From 2008 to 2011, the country went from 2.7 to 2.8 – in three years. This is the country presented as an example of anti-corruption in the Norad report that became publicly known yesterday. The report says a lot about the beneficial effect of Norwegian anti-corruption measures, but the results are therefore barely measurable. Another example: Nepal has expandable hydropower equivalent to half of the U.S. nuclear power generation. Only one poor percent is outbuilt, and today Nepal imports electricity from India. The reason is obvious: no one dares to invest their savings in a country as corrupt as Nepal. The most likely thing is that a power plant, after it has been built, is confiscated by local or central authorities. Nepal is today one of Asia's poorest countries. However, Nepal has expandable hydropower that could make it Asia’s richest — perhaps the world’s largest exporter of renewable energy. But it all stops because of corruption in the country. Nevertheless, Norway continues its activities as if nothing had happened and as if everything were all right. This has to end. Today, Norwegian tax money goes to pointless and useless measures because they are used in a way that strengthens the position of corrupt authorities. Norwegian u-help is more suitable for protecting corruption than for combating it. It is high time that Norway made tougher demands on the recipient countries. Much of Norwegian aid goes straight to the income side of the state budgets of the developing countries — the so-called budget support. But I'm afraid that much of the budget support goes right back to Europe, ordering more BMWs and more champagne for corrupt regimes in the poorest of the poorer countries. How long are we going to keep doing this for, like, 50 years, or 100 years? I believe that Norway should stop budget support for countries that do not show progress in combating corruption. I've used Tanzania as an example in the past. I call on the government to allow the other measures to continue, but to stop budget support. This means that the corrupt authorities notice that they are losing on corruption, rather than being rewarded for corruption, as today. This means that the authorities will serve to expose corrupt officials and women down the system, put an end to it, and score better on the Transparency International indices. The authorities in some developing countries may have to be phillierised a little, otherwise it remains as it is. The previously mentioned report from Norad uses two pages to explain that Norway uses 1 pst. of its gross domestic product on unhelp. It seems that spending as much money as possible is a goal in itself. A few days ago, the State Council gave Solheim 1 billion. kr to Brazil. In the media, this was justified by the fact that the Council of State is so impressed by the results of Brazil. So he's one step closer to the goal, to get used up all the 27 billion that the Storting has granted for the current year. This is in stark contrast to the fact that Brazil is currently adopting a law that makes it easier to cut down rainforests in the country. It's hard to understand the logic of this. I thought the Norwegian government was busy preserving the rainforest. Then it becomes difficult to understand that the government spontaneously cancels out 1 billion. kr to a Brazilian government that has the bulwark opposite strategy. The Progress Party believes that Norway is engaging too much, with too many activities in too many countries. Norway is experiencing unhelp in over 100 countries — over half of the world’s country. Rather, we should focus on a few countries – get to know these countries well and provide them with proper help. Then the government, the Council of State, the Department and the Norad should follow closely each country and project. After each year, they should go beyond each individual allocation and see if there are any results to track. If it works, if it works well, there will be no results, we'll stop the projects. However, there is no overall independent evaluation of Norwegian u-help. There's reason to criticize this, because it's about so much money, and because we don't know enough about what's being achieved with the money we have. The Progress Party has therefore presented a proposal that will be considered in the new year to provide an independent evaluation of Norwegian aid and development aid. The annual reports from Norad are important, but the credibility of the more critical conditions surrounding Norwegian u-help is not good enough. African countries have become political independents, but are still economically dependent on the Western world. Using the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, as a means of giving developing countries access to these countries with their export products is better unhelp than pumping money. A unanimous opinion among those I've talked to on visits to Africa is that what Africa needs is infrastructure. They need roads, motorways, electricity supply networks, energy production and – not least – ports to participate in international trade. Another important theme is property registers. In most African countries, there are no real estate registers or competing property registers. The Foreign Affairs Committee visited Ghana this summer, a country that is a successful example of good development in Africa. But Ghana, with the exception of the central parts of the capital Accra, has no property register. When someone tries to establish production, most of the time someone claims that the area where the production plant is established belongs to them. As a result, insoluble conflicts arise where there are several joints on one and the same property. This is shelf product. Norway should be able to do something here, helping countries in need of legal certainty, ownership and transparency in this area. The aid policy of the Progress Party is to provide assistance to poor countries. But we will attach strict demands to aid. The recipient countries need to develop democracy, human rights, the market economy and free trade, so that countries gradually free themselves from the dependence on financial subsidies. Secondly, we must be very hardy in our demands to combat corruption. Then we have to focus on developing infrastructure. If roads and energy supply are in place, the other comes in turn and in order. Assistance shall not be a permanent solution but a temporary aid for self-help, freedom and economic independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1404	The weekend we've been behind has been an eventful one. Three brave women from Africa and the Middle East have been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The youngest of the year's Peace Prize winners were born in the same year as when the president of her homeland, Yemen, took over power. 32 years of power and no legitimacy among their own people – it tells how wrong democracy is in Yemen. The situation is not very good in neighbouring countries either. Tunisia's retired leader was in power for over three decades. It was the same thing in Egypt. Worst was Libya, and in Syria we have a very dramatic situation. We have a commitment to democracy building in the Middle East. The Peace Prize winner, Tawakkul Karman, said in his lecture: Unfortunately, I must sadly say that Yemen's peaceful and popular youth revolution did not receive as much international understanding, support or attention as the other revolutions in the region. She has a point. This is in stark contrast to our commitment to e.g. Libya. The situation in Yemen is not comparable to that in Libya, but Karman’s call for attention cannot be overlooked either. I expect the government to follow closely what is happening in Yemen, and to convey undisguisedly to the authorities that power belongs to the people, and that the people cannot be punished for wanting their democratic rights. The same is true of Syria, and there's a hurry. Karman was aware that both women and Islam are part of the solution in Yemen. It's something to bring with it. Religion has an essential place in human existence and in our world. It's a size we must respect. It can and must be used – as the Peace Prize winner said – as part of the solution. However, what we should be aware of and have a crystal-clear line in relation to is that religion should not be used or abused to keep women, children and minorities down. As the other Peace Prize winner, Johnson Sirleaf, said in his speech during the Nobel dinner: the human rights are granted by the world community to individuals. They cannot be deprived of individuals, either by individuals or by governments. Egypt after Hosni Mubarak undergoes a necessary political process on its way to – hopefully – a democracy. The Islamic parties are on the march. Once again, I will recognise the place of religion in Egyptian society, but I will ask the world community to be careful that religious forces do not restrict the freedom or rights of women, children and minorities in Egypt. I have visited the Tahrir site this fall. It was fascinating to see young people, adults, women and children standing there and showing their commitment to a new Egypt – proud and expectant. However, the political and democratic traditions of Egypt are in their infancy. Presidential candidate Amr Moussa showed almost no concern for the strong progress of Islamist forces in Egypt, in a brief conversation I had with him the other day. However, I am not reassured. Let me spend a few seconds in the Balkans. It is far too quiet around the Balkans in Europe. It is also quiet in the Balkans. But it's only on the surface. Under the surface, it simmers. The communities, especially in Bosnia-Herzegovina, are divided. There is too much distrust between the Bosnians and the Serbs in the Republic. The Dayton Agreement, which once gave us peace, is now a problem. It's too rigid and it's played its part. I am afraid of the world community and Europe is repeating its mistakes. We wait too long - wait till everything explodes. We have to try to avoid repeating our mistakes. The Balkans, and Bosnia-Herzegovina, need help, ask for it. We have to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1432	At the Newseum in Washington, my favorite press image is attached. It's Kevin Carter's picture, which I think we've all seen – the image of a mob waiting patiently for a little kid to die. The picture was taken during the famine in Sudan in 1993. Crawled and unable to help himself, the defenseless child lies on the stomach of the dry red ground. The photographer took the picture, chased away the grab and went. Contrasts with Norway can almost not be greater. While there is still famine on Africa's horns, while disabled children in slum areas around the world are deprived of a future, we live in Norway in a very well-functioning country. While women are subjected to sexualized violence in a refugee camp, the teenage pregnancies of us are the lowest in the world. In Afghanistan, the most dangerous thing you can do is get pregnant. In Chad, girls are remarried at the age of 11–12 years. Despite many visible results in recent years, there is still a lot to do, and women are an important, priority area for us. The world is cruelly unfair. The question is just what we choose to do with it. Well, one of the things we can choose to do is to maintain our development aid. Although Norwegian development aid does not change everything in the world alone, there is no doubt that emergency aid and various types of development assistance — given in the right way and with the right requirements for the recipient countries — are important. An evaluation of recent Norwegian industrial aid shows that Norwegian support for business development has created 110 000 jobs directly and indirectly over the past 10–15 years. Norfund has evolved into one of the most interesting organisations in developing countries in its field. The Norwegian role in initiating and providing assistance to microcredit is also highlighted in particular in the evaluation report. Norad can also refer to results in mobilising Norwegian enterprises and contributing to activities. Nutritional development assistance is important. Norwegian business support has mobilised Norwegian business to take an interest in business opportunities in developing countries. In particular, small businesses create necessary and badly needed jobs in countries. Norfund’s results are one of many evidences that risks in developing countries have been overestimated compared to Western economies. At the same time, it is paradoxical that the State pension fund does not invest in developing countries where the return is high. Therefore, it is important that we consider whether the State pension fund should invest more in developing countries and in how it should be done. The Progress Party is not consistent in development policy, on the one hand, when it is for industrial aid, and on the other hand, at the same time it is making a big contribution to the external service budget. Our foreign stations are, of course, very important links and promoters of industrial development, and they are meeting places between different Norwegian companies and local economic operators in developing countries. So to the Middle East: While the newly elected leader of Israel's friends, the Jørund Rytman of the Advance Party, is most concerned about what words are used to describe Israel's detention of Palestinian tax money, the Workers' Party is committed to supporting the positive developments that have taken place in the Palestinian territories. The progress party cut in support of the Middle East and North Africa by 150 million. kr mainly goes beyond the Palestinian Territory. The consequence is, of course, that Israel’s security is weakened. The State-building project has had wide international support and has been characterised as successful by both the World Bank and the IMF. The Progress Party's alternative policy in the Middle East will lead to new social collapse, increased conflict and further radicalisation. There is no one worthy of it – and certainly not Israel. Finally, I would like to say something about Eriksen Soreide's first article. There the representative Eriksen Soreide said something quite interesting. She said that the Right's prerequisite for assistance is that the country shows clear signs of development and respect for fundamental human rights and democracy. It's a change of Right Policy. What does that mean in practice? Which countries should we withdraw with that justification, and with the consequences that that gives — less dialogue, fewer useful contacts? What impact does this have on other areas? Does this mean that the Right now will also provide more stringent advice to Norwegian businesses and further demands not to invest in countries that violate fundamental human rights? I hope the Right can clarify its positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1453	It's a little bad that the Minister of Defense isn't here, but I'm now keeping my post anyway. After the Minister of Defence spoke about how well everything is in the Norwegian defence, I wonder if he and I have the same reality. I've got 5 minutes to talk about the defense, and I'll follow up on the representative Ellingsen, and I'll ask, what kind of defense do we want, and who's going to decide? Is that the government, the head of defense, or is it the Stortinge? I talk a lot to people out there, and the older generation, who still remember the used rifle tactics of the 1930s, ask me if we know what we're doing, and they appreciate that hopefully they won't experience again the situation that they experienced then. For what we have in Norway is almost a parody of defence, and this is quite contrary to what the Minister of Defence himself said. In the Navy we have five frigates, and only one and a half of them are manned. I'm afraid it may be difficult to sail half, so that means that Norway actually has one operational frigate. With regard to the manning of the submarines, the situation is, if possible, even worse as long as we have one chief engineer to serve all of our submarines. The MTBs aren't going to be done, so we don't have them either. In the case of Air Force: the F-35 aircraft are running out more and more in time and are becoming more expensive. But it's never so bad that it's not good for anything – because we don't have aircraft technicians either. The material is old and expired on date. The security of our Air Force crews is falling, literally. Helicopters used in Afghanistan are scarcely capable of transporting soldiers and at least not of entering sharp missions. In addition, people are being robbed of their personnel. The army has severe disqualifications in the sectors where technical training is required, and without technical staff, the defense is failing. Department order must end at the age of 35. We have a home security that no longer works optimally, and the head of defense wants to reduce further. Competence disappears from the Defense – and what is left? The competence in which the defense has invested so much resources – men and women who can do much, and who were initially willing to fight for people and fathers – is looking for themselves in the private sector. It's not weird, you ask me, when the last new thing is that you're talking about lowering both the pay and the grade levels. There won't be much predictability of that. The taper will be what should defend us against an outside enemy. We might be hoping for help from allies, but will they come? We know that when there is inner unrest in a country, you need an external enemy to gather. In Russia, there's a growing inner turmoil, it should worry us seriously. What do we really have to defend ourselves with? Is it that if we hadn't made commitments in NATO, we wouldn't have had any own defense anymore? The reality is that with the operational forces we have abroad, and with the lack of capacity in Norway, there is very little left. The party of progress has been fighting every year to strengthen the defence, be in the forefront. Now it is unfortunately only to admit that the defense has never been weaker. Of course, it's not because of the men and women who do and have made a formidable effort both here at home and around the world. This is about the policy being pursued. It's about a defense minister and a defense chief who seems to be driving our entire defense right into the ditch. It came to my mind the other day when I could read that former Secretary of Defense Faremo had almost tricked the Stortinge to think that you had the overview of the veterans and who had served where and when, and who had gone wrong with damage or psychological reactions afterwards. So it turns out it's not right. But I have great hopes for the new Minister of Defense, that he will take action and correct deficiencies and, not least, that he will inform the Storting in an appropriate way – as it is called – when it is needed. I was skeptical when the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee were merged into one, and I'm afraid that if this continues, there won't be many years left until we just have a foreign committee again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1476	With the government's motion for a defence budget of 40,5 billion. kr is fully funded for the current long-term defence plan. The 2009-2012 Long-term Plan would ensure a modern, effective and flexible response defence – a defence that is relevant to the security challenges we face, both at home and outside. 2012 is the last year of the plan, with the proposal for a real budget increase of 283 million. comply with the proposed increases in appropriations as foreseen by the plan. In addition, the defence sector itself has followed the long-term plan, including: with significant internal efficiencies and significant organisational changes. It can be said that both parties to the agreement have thus complied with the assurances given when the plan was adopted by Stortinget in 2008. After what I have read in my weeks here at Stortinget, it is actually not everyday that a government follows up and grants the funds necessary to operate the defence that was actually adopted. We've done as we said, and we've completed the bulk of a transition that's taken the Defense out of the deep and persistent structural crisis it was in at the turn of the millennium. I'm actually proud, like the Minister of Defense, to belong to a government that delivers and to share in ensuring a more lasting balance in defence. The opposition criticises us for boasting about this, and the debate attempts from the opposition to create an image of a defense in crisis. Yes, there are still challenges in defence, but we also have to point out what is positive. That we have followed up the economy in the long-term plan is, in my view, something I can be satisfied with, without being accused of boasting. This has been very positive in our new response defense in recent years. Today, we have a relevant defence that holds a high international standard. We uphold our national and international rights, our rights in the northern regions, and we participate in operations on behalf of the international community. We could not have done this without a competent crew and modern material. Not least on the material side, there have been very positive events in recent years. I mention new frigates, new MTBs/coastal corvettes, new transport aircraft, strategic transport aircraft capacity, new coastguard and frigate helicopters, upgraded F16, new fighter aircraft, new military equipment, new standard weapons, new armored personnel vehicle, new Archer artillery system and the creation of own satellite capacity – as some examples. These investments mean that we have a very modern response defense. We have been able to follow the long-term defence plan with increased appropriations, while the challenge for many of our allies is major cuts in the defence budgets. Those who are in Defense, or see for themselves a future in Defense in the coming years, will work in an organization where the material will be new, modern and with very high-tech solutions. A technological golden age is in store, which is very important for recruiting new, professional and vulnerable, with a high level of motivation and competence – because there are still challenges, not least on the personnel side. Personnel and competences will therefore be given a great deal of attention in the coming years, especially in the areas of management and governance. In 2012, emphasis will be placed on actions that contribute to the maintenance and further development of the personnel, including the increase in the proportion of women in defence. The wear in the Army has been great because of Afghanistan. The staff shall have great regard for the performance of this demanding task. Here, too, it is important that the experience and competences acquired are safeguarded for the future. I think we need to make sure that we change the departmental order system so that we don't pull out people at their best age, when they're on top, and that it's obvious that the defense needs it. The branch framework with a maximum of nine years' employment should also be reviewed. We need to ensure that the Defence gets the necessary experience and competence, secure horizontal career paths, while ensuring that the Defence Craftsmen can have a lifelong career. That's what our modern defense needs. It will be exciting to see if the peer review that is coming will address these fundamental challenges. All in all, it must be said that there is no great disagreement about the defence budget of the year. The opposition with the Right and the Advance Party spends a little more money where we also bet, but they have no major repriorities. It is good and not least right that there is much common agreement on our defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1491	I will in no way make any attempt to talk down the efforts of the Defence and our strength and the development of the Norwegian defence. But I think you're going to take a very hard time when you're operating with a gross budget, which the last speaker was talking about, at 40,5 billion. kr, where the reality is that we have to drop to less than 36 billion. kr, without any reduction for the Defence as such. There is no doubt that our defense branches, where they are used in the most sharp assignments, have completed a fantastic and rewarding job out there. In Norway, it has been reported that peak efforts are being made, quality at a maximum level, exemplary management for others, etc. This indicates that there is a lot of good in the defense. But it's not like that, when we read the hearing documents from the command's own organizations, and when we meet soldiers around the country, that reality has the same brilliant beauty as what we hear from the position representatives and the councils give the impression of today. When one establishes as the bearing truth that the long-term plan is met by 100 pst. So I don't think 96 pst, or whatever, I think the truth might be in the middle. When the National Auditor also points out this time that a large proportion of the Armed Forces' revenues go through a so-called efficiency gain, I understand that some results of the efforts on communications consultants can be read out of the Ministry of Defence's budget. Using Defence Buildings as an example, where their requirement is to streamline with 0.5 pst., which is again recorded as income, neither Defence Building, National Auditor nor Department is able to make visible how the efficiency requirement has been met. They are also unable to quantify savings. I'm just reminding you that it's 315 million. kr in the next year’s budget for efficiency gains. When you add these amounts and multiply by four, you get into an amount of nearly one billion. kr. So I think the reality we meet out when we meet people in green clothes, maybe it's a little bit different than the picture that's being applied for here today. Let me also say that I think it is reassuring when the representative Svein Roald Hansen suggests that we need to get a wide-ranging deal in terms of fighting aircraft purchases. It's a news that I think is quite reassuring. I think the whole development of the matter bears the stamp of this. The leftover impression so far throughout this process back to the turn of the year 2008/2009 does not bear the impression that we have neither a government nor a collapse that is full of height when it comes to explaining what the final invoice will end up on, and how the defense will be able to finance the cost of operating and getting new planes on the wings in the future. Let me also say that even if we can show that we are doing better in budgetary terms than our neighbours and most other countries in a time of financial crisis, we will meet a period in the future where we are likely to lend much less than before to others in terms of assistance to provide our own help and security. We need to exercise authority, monitoring and control in our own direction to a much greater extent than before. Then we're asked if we can settle down by the percentage of 100, which is referred to here, at a time when we see that the defence's share of gross domestic product has a falling trend. We see that other budgets, such as the Ministry of Culture's budget, are growing more than the Ministry of Defence's budget. We are also in a time when I see and hope and expect the Minister of Defence to see to it that we have an extract from Afghanistan that goes along with our alliance partners. We went in together, and the whole foundation has been based on that we're also going out together, when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1508	I will continue where my co-representative Kristiansen ended, with fighter planes. In Norway, we have a tradition that, in major cases, we debate – opposition and position – and criticise, and this gives us the best possible basis for decision-making. When it comes to it, we have the tradition of bringing together in Stortinget when it's heavy and important decisions that will bind future expansion for several periods. I hope that in the case of fighter aircraft it will be such a process – it is good that there is a critical debate, because it is a heavy and demanding decision – but that the day we may make a decision is the widest possible majority in this Chamber. The debate today has been very calm. There has been a very quiet budget harvest in Stortinget at all. There are no markings outside here; there have almost been no demonstrations outside the Stortinge throughout the harvest during our budgetary procedure. Although there's a very high degree of peace inside the hall here, we all feel a concern about what's happening in our nearest neighbouring country, and what's happening in the euro zone. Just getting questions about the euro surviving in 2012 would have been unimaginable last year. The whole euro is fading, and the EU has made some of its fundamental problems visible. In the last year, they have had 17 emergency meetings, and they have had five major action packages to save the euro, but it still falters. And there are ordinary people who pay the price. In parts of Europe, for example: in Spain, almost every other youth you meet in the street, without a job. One of the drugs that our European friends are now meeting is that we are doing further tightening, i.e. that more people are going to be out of work tomorrow, but that hopefully you can create a growth in the economy again in the long term. But in the year we go into, the probability that there will be more unemployed is greater than that there will be fewer unemployed. I am a little surprised that, at the beginning of its speech, the chairman of the Committee was so scrupulous when it came to acquitting the euro. It is not the euro that is the problem, but the leader was very clear, while her conservative party traps in the United Kingdom clearly have a completely different view. A currency has been created without having a common fiscal policy, without having strong enough instruments to deal with a crisis. Now we are in the midst of the crisis, and the EU has demonstrated through a meeting after a meeting that they have not been able to get the use of tools in place. The reason is that there is no popular support for closer integration in Europe. The reason for some of the problems is that the euro was introduced without a large public opinion wanting to have it. Therefore, a common fiscal policy and strong enough governance instruments could not be put in place. The people didn't want it. But now, the major democratic problem is that Europe’s leaders are forced to implement stronger fiscal policies, stronger integration, even though the EU’s accession has never been lower. We are experiencing a democratic crisis in Europe. It is a European harvest – the will of the people is being less and less listened to. The European elite has launched a boat that is now almost impossible to stop. It surprises me that there is not a little more humility in those who have always been sworn followers of the EU, sworn followers of the euro, when the crisis is as deep as it is. Then there are slightly different lines of Norwegian foreign policy that do not always come out as well, and they also go through the government. One of the dividing lines is our view of EU membership. Then I just had to find a look from the end of the last period where the leader of the European movement, who was then called Svein Roald Hansen, said that during 2011 there would be a new life in the Norwegian membership debate, Iceland would become a member, and Norway would then become a member. I wonder whether the representative Hansen still believes that the year 2011 will be the big year when the Norwegian EU debate will be revived, and that we will again be faced with new rounds of membership of the Union. I don't think so. People don't think so. Fortunately, the Norwegian people have saved Norway twice from membership, and I think they are going to do it again, even though we have representatives like Hansen, who want the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1525	There have been two major global conferences in the last two weeks on the broad picture of development policy. One is the Durban Conference on Climate Change, which has been widely discussed. Less specifically, South Korea's event was called the Busan Conference on Aid Efficiency. It was an important conference, and it was a conference that emphatically confirmed a global trend, namely that the red-green development policy in Norway is receiving much more international support. There are many examples of this. Our resolute focus on results was confirmed by the Busan Conference, our opinion that it is the developing countries and the developing countries themselves that have been confirmed by the Busan Conference. The line that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been at the forefront of, not least, reaching out to the new, rapidly growing economies, such as China, India, Indonesia and others, was confirmed by the Busan Conference. And, perhaps most importantly, the fact that aid is only a strategic tool for achieving development policy objectives was the focus itself. And that's the whole new thing, for the previous conferences, in Paris and elsewhere, were about assistance. Now assistance was seen as a strategic tool to achieve more and better private investment, better governance with corruption and to get back money stolen from poor countries, to get better energy investment, which is the basis for health, education and all other important things, to get better tax systems, so that developing countries can develop themselves – in short, helping as a small but important strategic tool for the broad development policy picture. It is a message that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I have presented in Stortinget for the last six years with great systematics, and it is a pleasure to see that this is now a global agenda. So our experience is that assistance works best when it connects to politics. Let me call that the three p's. It's money, people and politics. This is when it works – when you have a political vision, a political message, when you have people in political positions, but not least in the civil service and also in non-governmental organisations, and when you spend money to achieve these goals. That's when Norway succeeds, that's when we contribute most to development in the world. Let me therefore mention some such initiatives that Norway has taken in recent years and that are important. Perhaps the most visible is the initiative to conserve and use in a renewable way the world’s rainforests. From this year on, Brazil is the largest beneficiary of Norwegian aid. This is because this program is so successful that Brazil's deforestation sinks year after year. Regardless of everyone's predictions of a negative nature -- not least, some of them have come from this room -- the deforestation in the Amazon is now the lowest ever. Brazil believes, in spite of the decision in its Congress, that it will continue to go down next year. There we have done what I thought not least the Progress Party should have the same, namely given results-based assistance. So it's not the purpose of Brazil that's measured, but what Brazil achieves from results. And no one is questioning the results. They are unique — best of all rainforest countries, most likely the best of all countries, in combating climate change. Norway has fulfilled its part of the agreement, namely to pay Brazil what we have promised Brazil that they will receive when they achieve the results we agreed on. This is a way of providing assistance that I think we should use in several areas, not in fewer areas. But then we have to pay out when the results are achieved. Then we have taken the initiative to promote broad energy cooperation with many countries. We discussed with Ellen Johnson Sirleaf when she was here now, upgrading hydropower plants outside of Monrovia, and we are taking a number of similar initiatives to look at how we can strengthen first and foremost the sun, wind and perhaps the very most water as renewable energy sources in developing countries. In South Africa, I signed an agreement with the South African Minister of Energy on this, and Scatec Solar seems to be entering South Africa, as an important provider of solar energy. Fleet for Norwegian business and important development policy. In South Africa, I also signed an agreement with Prime Minister Meles and others on Norwegian support for Ethiopia's low-carbon strategy. It is primarily for agriculture. It's the most ambitious strategy developed by developing countries. Ethiopia says that they will increase their emissions from urbanisation and industry when they become a middle-income country. At the same time, they shall reduce accordingly much in agriculture, forestry and other areas. There shall be an intermediate country but not an increase in emissions. If they do, it's a fantastic result that no other country has yet succeeded, but the more important it is. I would particularly like to stress to the Right that I signed this agreement with Chris Huhne. He's a liberal democrat, but from the British Conservative government. Norway and the United Kingdom are the two main supporters of this unique programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1544	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1548	We have heard earlier in the debate that Norway has a broad portfolio – not least land portfolio – in its aid exposure. There are 114 countries that have been mentioned – there are at least a lot of them. Many have suggested concentration and that we should follow up other neighbouring countries that have clearly concentrated this more. Is this also an ambition for the Minister for Development? How does he imagine that we should come up with an aid that is directed more like a spearhead, and not as fragmented as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1555	I want to be honest here. No, this isn't my ambition. The reason is this: if you see, for example: in the 40 countries receiving least assistance from Norway, the total amount for the 40 countries is 120 million. kr. These are typically small Norwegian mission organisations operating in a country where we are not otherwise involved. It's student exchange with countries with which we don't have any assistance programs. It is research cooperation with countries with which we do not otherwise provide assistance. So it is mainly civil society in Norway in contact with developing countries. If the Storting wants what the Storting systematically says: more emphasis on civil society, it will be very stupid to cut out some of the most important things in the civil society component. It's very small amounts, but it's one of the most important things we see in meeting between Norway and developing countries. So I don't want to cut into it. But I would like to make available to the Biggest a list of which countries and what projects this is, so that the Biggest can assess whether this is something you want to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1562	We're going to Brazil. I have to admit that I know this matter about this billion just from the media. If it's a hundred percent correctly represented, I can't go well for it. So the Minister of Aid and Development says that Brazil's deforestation is lower than ever, but that means deforestation continues. That means there's now less rainforest in Brazil than ever. That's what it means in Norwegian. Now the law work has come so far to liberalize everything that has to do with deforestation in Brazil, that it is now just the president's veto that can stop it, and no one is waiting to happen. So my question is, how does the Council of State think that this billion that he gave away at the end of last week, is going to do something positive for Brazil's forests?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1573	This is the Norwegian response to Brazil on a programme that has been repeatedly anchored in the Stortinget, and on which at least all the other six parties on the Stortinget have agreed, and on which I thought the Progress Party also agreed – at least they have previously expressed a positive view – that we have a concrete agreement with Brazil on how to reduce their deforestation. This is measured by satellite photography, and it's international so-called verification – that is, confirmation that the numbers are correct. Then we pay out in line with the reduced deforestation – completely in line with what the Storting has foreseen. The results are formidable. Deforestation in Brazil has gone down to 30 pst. of what it was. Of course, deforestation in Brazil cannot stop from one day to the other. It is often poor people who chop down some trees to feed themselves, their wives and their children. No one can send in an army and stop them from doing so, but you can create a political program to give them income to do something else. There is no single country that has done more to combat climate change than Brazil. Let's give them honey instead of teasing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1580	In Solheim's autobiography from 1999 onwards, he writes: «Hafez Assad has been in power in Syria for nearly thirty years, not a little bit of a poor boy who is again alawitt, from a religious minority. This is unfortunately unattainable by being a kind grandfather only.’ Now the son rules at least as brutally and ruthlessly. Let me do another quote: «In spite of this brutality, I believe Syria has an unworthy reputation in the West. No politician in the Middle East can survive by turning the other cheek to." In the light of the Minister for Foreign Affairs' quotations previously related to Syria: How does the Minister for Development assess the cohesion between the Minister for Development himself and the Minister for Foreign Affairs at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1595	This was an attempt at a political analysis of a regime ten years ago. I would prefer the Foreign Minister to comment on Norwegian Syria policy today. An experience both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I have is that it's very clever to have some kind of division of labour, that someone takes a primary responsibility for one thing, and that others take a primary responsibility for other things – and every time you try to put this up against each other, it's just customs. So all the questions about Syria, I think the Foreign Minister can answer with great force and weight. So this was an attempt at an analysis -- I've forgotten everything, I just have to admit -- of the situation in Syria at the time, a brutal regime, but a regime where a religious minority has retained power. That is, as I see it, the great challenge in Syria today, too, to avoid the democratization that we all want happening in such a way that it does not contribute to ethnic conflict in Syria itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1602	I think the Minister for Development is wise to push the Minister for Foreign Affairs in front of him and let him deal with Norway-Syria and the relations we have. Let me move on to another point, which is definitely part of the developing minister's sphere, namely budget support. On repeated occasions, the right has called for the underlying criteria for the use of budgetary support. We have seen in recent Uganda disappear from budget support, the support for Malawi is frozen. Is it, at present, criteria for human rights, democracy, parliamentary control, anti-corruption work, as the Right wishes, or is it the Council of State itself that has political control over which countries should have and should not have budgetary support?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1609	I think here, too, that we have to realize that politics in the world is so complicated that at the end of the day there will be a political balance in each case if we want to cut aid, just like there is a political assessment of how much we want to go up in aid, and what we want to do with private investment. We can't get the world into a formula in such a way that it's possible to set up an exact code for this. We have cut the aid to Uganda, to which reference was made here, in the light of a concern about developments there. We have stopped aid to Malawi, also in a kind of solidarity with the United Kingdom, because we thought it was completely unreasonable the way the United Kingdom was treated in Malawi. We want to be with a country with which we otherwise have a very good cooperation in Malawi. But getting this into a mathematical formula, where you're going to be able to let this go up and down, is impossible. Budget support, which was something we started with under the Bondevik government, is a good form – albeit a tiny form in the Norwegian aid budget, just a few percent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1618	The evening post announced with bold type on December 8 that now it was 8 billion. kr remaining in the budget that would have to be used within five days. The source of this turned out to be an internal e-mail in the Ministry of State and the Directorate of State where it said: Ten days left to pay 12 billion. kr. The committee chairman has now given the impression that you are not able to spend this money. I would like the Council of State to answer the Storting whether he thinks he has a reassuring management of what remains of the development budget, and whether this is about making up the money at the end of the year, as you know from some agencies, or whether it is actually bills that are due now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1625	I have to say that I really wish it was so good that we had 8 billion. NOK that was not used and that we had at our disposal. It would have been a dream situation. But the reason why we get this kind of payment at the end of the year is just that we have a thorough process. For example, we're adding. major emphasis on combating corruption in all programmes and have a thorough review of them. That's why these payments work all year round, and then they pay off at the end of the year. Let me give you an example: take the one billion dollars that we talked about here to Brazil -- it's being paid out now. Transfers are something that both the Højbråten and I want to get as low as possible. The transfer of money to other ministries will be at the end of the year, and the transfer of significant amounts to IDA, i.e. to the World Bank, will come at the end of the year. So it's about large, scheduled payments coming at the end of the year. If we can't do it properly at the end of the year, it's better to do it over the New Year, because the most important thing is that the money is always used properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1632	I want to go back to the Brazilian billion. What has happened, and as the Council of State confirms here today, is that it is still being deforestationed in Brazil. That is, the total volume of the tropical rainforest in Brazil is now less than ever. This is what the Brazilian government wants to do. They want further progress in the deforestation of Brazil by implementing legislative changes to facilitate the authorisation of large deforestation projects. It's being met by a Norwegian state council that shows up and suddenly has 1 billion. kr, which is presented as a gift to a government that has the behaviour I just described. How does the Council of State think that the government of Brazil is imagining that this billion is justified?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1640	Just seven years ago, Brazil deforestation some twenty thousand square kilometres per year — now it has come down to 6,000. We hope to get it further down. The whole world, everyone, recognizes this as a fantastic, unique result. To believe that it may be possible to complete deforestation in one year: it can possibly only be done in the most brutal form of the police state – which I don't think the Progress Party wants – to send the police out and stop farmers who knock down forests on some square meters to support their family according to whether they have kveg or soya. It is not possible to do this in any better way than Brazil does, and they do it much, much better than any other country. Let's recognize that. It is not the case that the government of Brazil wants to deforestation more. They have a systematic plan to deforestation less, but it is a legislative proposal in Parliament that has been criticised – rightly – by a good deal, but it is such that Norwegian money to Brazil comes from results. If deforestation goes up, there will be less money from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1647	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1652	Our defence must be adapted to what is a realistic assessment of Norway’s security policy challenges. The reduction of the gap between east and west in Europe — with several EU and NATO Member States — has made our continent safer overall in the last 20 years. However, I cannot fail to stop at the pleasure of Mr Vedum's representative that some euro-area over-exploitation has also grown to the euro-zone. It is too small to count against the large peace project that the EU has represented, where nations have been made to cooperate across past and historical divisions. It might have been to hope – for some of us – that we could live long enough to hear the Central Party, at least on some occasions, expressing joy at the peace project that the EU has represented, whether you like this Cooperation Forum or not. We must maintain a long-term perspective on defence. The country's defence capabilities are building up over time and are not escalating rapidly if new and more specific threats we do not know today are to be reported. Experience has shown that in countries which mutually introduce the rule of law and democracy, contradictions and tensions in favour of cooperation and trade also disappear. As long as large and populous countries in former Eastern Europe do not show signs of decisive progress towards the development of real democracies, we will have a security policy uncertainty that must also affect our defence planning. From such a perspective, the elections in Russia on 4 December were not only a setback for the development of democracy there, but also have international significance in terms of the uncertainty it imposes on the security policy climate in the international community. Both Russian and non-governmental organisations that had the opportunity to follow the elections, and not least the OECD election observation force, where some colleagues here in Stortinget followed in the first place, documented extensive violations of the rules and procedures to ensure free and fair elections. It makes a strong impression when you look at the polls that are counted, but you may not know if they have been in the polling room. There is therefore reason in this apartment to recall that developments in Russia may present significant challenges in the future. It is an authoritarian system, which has so far been maintained by providing economic growth, but with less economic growth there may be political instability, which will also affect Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1661	I want with my post to put an even more positive search light on Home Protection – or, let's say, what's left of Home Protection – and what the future of Home Protection might look like. When I started my professional career in Defense, the defense was a good and secure job. The career opportunities were fine, and you were both proud and happy that you were part of the Defense. When I later became a member of the Defence Committee, in 2001, there were 83 000 HV soldiers and nearly 20 Homeland districts. Today, these two numbers are, so to speak, halved. In addition, fewer days of exercise for the soldiers, and weapons, or parts of the weapons, have been withdrawn. In addition, there is no ammunition out there among the soldiers anymore. We got a good example of this this summer, when we had a crisis situation and Home Protection was called out on a mission. It is possible that the number – 83 000 men – was somewhat high, but in my opinion no other weapon can provide as much preparedness and local knowledge as the individual civil protection soldier, in relation to the costs it incurs in the budget. Just this with local knowledge is important, and something on which the Home Office is based. The fact that the soldiers are getting fewer, the districts are larger and the exercises are smaller reduces the impact of Homeland Protection, unfortunately. Home security has a major role to play in both military and civilian crisis situations. The latter was given to us, among others. experience in the East during the flood in 1995. Local knowledge was there, and the Home Office pushed out where the potential damage could be, or was, and repaired, or reduced, these. The same applies, of course, also in a war situation, where local knowledge can play a very important role. I also believe that the presence of the Home Guard – such as. HV-05 with its main area south of Hedmark – giving people a ownership relationship with the Defence and Homeland Protection. Now HV-05 on Kongsvinger is gone – it was joined up with another district for a few years. The same applies, as I said, to other districts. We, as big-scale politicians, are responsible for the necessary security and defence of the whole country, including our maritime areas. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that Home Protection needs to be strengthened more than what is put in place, and that exercises, among other things. must be provided with increased funds. We all need to aim to give home protection throughout the country opportunities to have equipment and exercises, but also opportunities to carry out their administrative tasks and not least plan development. Finally, I must be allowed to warn against the plans available for the defence, including HV-04.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1674	Unfortunately, in Norway it is more important to count the amount of money we give in aid than to look at the results. In 2010, the Riksrevision had a review of how this money was used. It was found that there was total slaughter of both planning, follow-up and prevention of corruption. Given that this is a talk of almost 30 billion. Tax bills, I think it's very regrettable that you haven't done anything more to look at the results. In 2009, economist Dambisa Moyo published a book called ‘Dead Aid’. She said that aid is the cause of Africa's problem, not the solution. Assistance has turned the attention of African politicians away from the population and from the aid industry and the donor countries. Assistance is easy money, which leads to little responsibility. I think it's very bad that Africa is so stigmatized in Norway. There has been a one-sided production of this continent for a number of years, and I record that also representatives here, among other things. The representative, Gustavsen, is engaged in some form of aid spornography, which unfortunately has returned to the Norwegian population. One is left with the impression that Africa is a continent characterized by hungry children, poverty, distress and nothing else. Africa is so much more. It's also a modern society, it's skyscrapers – it's a different picture than what the Norwegian people are left with. That is the picture that Norwegian politicians and media have unfortunately given to the population. The outside discussion is whether the aid has had some effect, whether it has given rise to economic growth. The expression ‘trade, not Aid’ is the answer, but in Norway it is 21 pst. Of our aid to Africa, while we have 2 pst. imports from the same continent. There is so much money in this system that they can hardly be used up. I wish the Council of State Solheim could find out if it is such that he has plans for the use of all this money, 8 billion. NOK, which they said was not used up, or if there will be money left unused, when you have gone through these projects. I also find it strange that Brazil, one of the fastest growing economies in the world, is one of the countries receiving most Norwegian aid. It has become so that an entire aid industry — or the beneficiaries of need — is more concerned with getting money than perhaps focusing on the results we are concerned with. Finally, I really hope that Norwegian aid policy can get an independent evaluation, and not just reports from Norad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1691	The President has strong doubts as to whether the concept of ‘aid spornography’ falls within what can be called a parliamentary expression. One should look for other expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1694	This has been a good debate, which has confirmed the broad consensus of foreign policy and defence policy, which has clarified some disagreements, divisions, in terms of development policy. Let me first take to heart the reproof from the representative, Höglund, because I accused the Progress Party of reducing instead of adding 40 million. kr to the northern areas. That's where I blinked. That's enough of minus to take off, so it was a little silly to criticize a plus. The Minister of Defence has cleared up the confusion from Canada regarding cost calculations for F-35. I hope Jan Arild Ellingsen the next time he gets such a message, perhaps is a little bit more careful with the use of words. In today's Evening Post he claims that the government "exercises a covert operation, a warfare against the Stortinget". I believe that the representative, Mr Vedum, really misses an EU debate. He neglects no opportunity to raise the question. However, it is not the fundamental problems of the European Union that come first. What has been first and foremost seen is that countries have failed to comply with the stabilisation pact, have led to irresponsible economic policies, have borrowed money and been indebted to far more than that. That's the problem. They had nothing to do with it when the crisis came. Then he is happy that Norway was saved «from membership». We are in the process of saying everything – through the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement, etc. I hope the representative Schlagsvold Vedum will recognize it when the research-based report comes in the New Year. I'm asking him to read it carefully. We are more integrated into EU cooperation than the United Kingdom. Then I would say to Karin S. Woldseth's description of a defense in strong decay that there is no anchoring in reality. It is even lacking in the comments of the Progress Party. Had it been so bad, at least it didn't have 900 million. have been close to what was needed to remedy the situation. We are in the process of getting a defence that is of the most modern in Europe. Ivar Kristiansen commented on my invitation to a broad cooperation on the basic structure of the Air Force. I'm glad. Of course, it also includes what is the important element in it: the purchase of the aircraft. Finally to Homeland. We decided in the last period a structure on the Home Guard, with an effort force, a reinforcement force, and a follow-up force. I believe that structure should be established. Then, in his professional advice, the head of defense has proposed some adjustments for the Home Office and has also some suggestions on how to get military units in place faster in larger cities, like Oslo, if the police ask for help in situations like the one we got this summer. I think we're going to use the time we now have to review the defense chief's proposal and then come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1711	I am pleased that the Solheim Council is so honest that he confirms that at present there are no rules for the use of budget support other than the political stance of the Council of State. I can assure the Council of State and possibly others that it will change with a civil election in 2013. We want democracy, respect for human rights, parliamentary control, good governance and anti-corruption work to underpin the use of budgetary support. Budgetary support is not suitable as an instrument for countries which are going in the wrong direction in terms of democracy and which also do not have parliamentary control, nor can it see that it is a political control mechanism with what the money is spent on. I would also like to say that in countries where corruption is great, budget support unfortunately contributes to giving more temptations. Let me ask a question to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who, in his first post, brought a packing, almost, to Norwegian citizens that they should guard against going to land without a Norwegian embassy. We're so lucky that as a population we travel mostly everywhere, at all times. We will never as a nation, no matter what kind of budget you use, have the opportunity to have an embassy presence anywhere. Does the representative Svein Roald Hansen still believe that Norwegian citizens are not going to places without a Norwegian embassy? So to what was said about the ILO. Right wants a decent global working life. No one can take away that desire and work for it, but we believe that the ILO is not the best way to achieve it. There are so many reports on the basis that the ILO as an organisation does not match well enough, neither with the resource situation we have today, nor with our own goals for global work. This means that we will try to spend money in this field on other organisations and other measures. So to Laila Gustavsen and criteria for human rights in a democracy: it is quite clear that we want democracy and respect for human rights to play a completely different role in Norwegian aid than it does today. The representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide is going to go into it clearly in his article. Let me say at the end, especially with regard to the representative, Mr Vedum, who quite rightly does not allow any occasion to go away with criticism of Europe. What happened to the euro's takeover was first and foremost that one had a unique opportunity to borrow money, as a state, at a lower interest rate than one had in the past. It showed that very many countries were not responsible enough to conduct a responsible fiscal policy, and this again led to the situation today. It's not the fault of the euro, it's bad financial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1726	Let me first say that I think it was timely that it was noted to the representative of Listhaug's scornful mention of Norwegian development policy that there are some words that are not appropriate. I would like to say, for my part, that the word 'aid industry' would like the representatives of the Progress Party here in the Chamber to come up to the pulpit and explain what is. It can't be the Council of State, his department or his directorate. Is it then Norway's Red Cross, which collects millions of dollars in the Norwegian population for development projects? Is it the Church's Emergency Aid, which does the same, or the Power Foundation, which is perhaps one of the largest self-financed enterprises within Norwegian development aid at all, or the Save Children? It could have been good for more than the undersigned to get an answer. Then we have had a bonfire for the new Minister of Defence in the budget debate here today. Governments have a very solid background for their new work, and I wish him every success in it. At the same time, I would like to say that there is a expectation from Stortinget that the Council of State will come here first, when he has new information on major and important issues that the Stortinget has dealt with, will treat or have undergone treatment. There are constitutional forms of it, which means that we can accept it at any point in time. It is also expected that, once the Stortinget has passed the law, matters will be decided after the consent of the Stortinget has been obtained, such as: changes in the organisation of the Home Office, such consent is obtained before the decision is taken and implemented, not afterwards, as happened with HV-016. I would also like to stress that there is a lot left to wish for in terms of the way the budget proposal is designed. There is very little in the budget proposal about the operational capability of the defence, the availability of strengths or the ability to deliver. Over several years, considerable efforts have been made to make the budget more specific in terms of the results to be measured. The budget has only one statement of which units will be in place at the end of the planning period. Little or nothing is said about the technical or operational status of these units. For example, operations may be measured by the number of sailing days, flying hours and exercise days. For Storting, it is quite important to be able to say something about: What is the reality of development in terms of the operational capability of the defence? It is then necessary to set certain minimum requirements and it must be possible to follow up and measure them and it must be possible to make compilations of the expected result. Such evidence is missing in the budget proposal. I have great faith that the new Minister of Defence will ensure that the next time the Grand Duchy receives a budget proposal, it will be far better on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1737	Many European countries experience major economic difficulties. Greece, Spain, Italy and some other countries have borrowed overcapacity, survived and failed to implement the necessary reforms of pension systems, tax systems and public welfare systems. That is the origin of the crisis, and that is where we need to find the long-term solution of the crisis. A single currency without a common fiscal policy makes great demands on the politicians of the Member States. Accountability in budgetary policy is a necessary prerequisite for a well-functioning monetary union. Unfortunately, several European countries have opted to exploit the creditworthiness of other countries without being able to use the debt itself. However, the United Kingdom is proof that it is not necessary to be part of a monetary union in order to end up in economic ruin. In the United Kingdom, too, politicians have been committed to making economic growth possible the use of an increasingly high level of debt, thus preventing the collapse of public finances. When the growth failed, the collapse was a fact. In other words, the crisis — both in some euro area countries and in the United Kingdom — is created by national politicians and must be addressed and resolved by national politicians. The EU contribution is to prevent this from happening again, by introducing stricter requirements for monetary union participants and measures to safeguard the banking sector. At the same time, robust efforts are being made to ensure liquidity, thus buying time for reform and restructuring in countries such as Italy and Spain. Many people seem to think that the EU is doing too little too late to deal with the financial difficulties. But you can flip the reasoning on your head. The EU is a political arena that contributes to common responses to common challenges. It is precisely in the wake of financial crises and economic difficulties that we see the need for community and political action across borders. That is why this is the time to defend the most important political community in our part of the world – not to talk it down, as the representative of Battle Violence Vedum does. The alternative to cooperation is isolation, protectionism and alone at a time when our continent more than anything else needs the opposite, namely cooperation, community and trade for mutual joy and benefit. Although we have chosen to stand outside the main political community in our part of the world, Norway is nevertheless fully integrated into the internal market in Europe. That means that the economic consequences of membership of the political union in the European Union have already been achieved through our membership of the economic union. Participation in the economic Union — which Norway has through the EEA Agreement — is important for the future. EU countries are our second most important trading partners, and we have a self-interest in Europe being strengthened out of the crisis, and that foreign Norway is not further marginalised in the processes now taking place in the EU. Norway’s link is indeed a link that requires an active European policy to defend Norwegian interests and seek to make a difference on its own continent. We have a lot to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1754	It is also my request to the new Minister of Defence that he contributes to a significant degree of transparency around the Ministry's budget. To some extent, we have seen a tightening in which previously known information has been classified. When the Right wants to increase the defence budget by 530 million. It is not in order to over-comply with the long-term plan, but it is in order to meet it, so that at least we can have quantifiable, comparable figures and sizes to measure the impact of what kind of effort we get from the budget resources given. Like others, I am also pleased that the Voluntary Sniper Service has been corrected. If it were appropriate for the Minister of Defense to comment on Afghanistan's extractions in 2013, I would appreciate it very much. Without it having anything to do with this, I registered with interest that his predecessors in the department criticized Norwegian soldiers who liked the very bad order to release fighting Taliban soldiers who were taken prisoner, free. They were directly criticised by the Minister of Defense for the lack of involvement in the human rights of the Taliban soldiers by men and women in uniform. I assume that when you advertise excerpts in 2013, it's harmonised with our alliance partners, because if it doesn't, it'll be a sort of contradiction. On the one hand, we will not even give the Afghan authorities responsibility for dealing with their own prisoners, while on the other hand, we believe that they are entitled to assume responsibility for an entire province in 2013. If the Minister of Defence is able to comment on this significant international issue, which concerns both Norway and our allies, I would certainly appreciate it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1762	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, and I would also like to join in what both the representative Højbräten and the representative Kristiansen say about the information base of the Stortinget on the defence budgets and other decisions taken in that area. The size has on several occasions used the possibilities of the Storting to call state councils into open and closed forums to account for the figures provided, or the lack of such. I just want to have also said – to repeat what I said in my main post – that the Storting will not hesitate to do it again if, for example, it does. in relation to the long-term plan, the acquisition of aeroplanes or in other contexts is not a sufficient basis for decision in the Storting. Some words about a topic that has been highlighted by some representatives here today, namely the departmental order system. The government parties voted against a proposal from the Right to have a comprehensive review of the order system last year, but I record that there is now a work going on. That's very good. I would therefore like to say that it is important to find solutions that enable us to maintain the competence of the Defence Agency further. Today, the age limit of the PPO is 35 years, but the average for those ending is 26-27 years. This means that we lose valuable competence early. We have to be able to keep part of them – not all – but part of them. We need to be able to uncouple the pay and grade systems, and not least it must be possible to make a horizontal career. I was directly challenged by the representative Gustavsen on the question of countries where development is in the wrong direction. If I can get the attention of the representative to page 23 of the budget position, we will mention there quite fully which countries we are thinking about in particular. We are thinking in particular of countries like Uganda, Eritrea and, the government's own favorite, Meles Zenawi in Ethiopia, where we believe that progress is clearly in the wrong direction, and where we are critical of a large amount of assistance being given. Some of the budget support has been removed, but there are still some large amounts of assistance. It is given, for example: not money from the post of human rights, which we also criticise. In addition, we express support for what the government has done to stop the budget support for Malawi precisely with the justification given by Erik Solheim – that development is going in the wrong direction. In the end, both the Christian People's Party and the Left have been challenged by the Workers' Party on how the Right behaves when the party is in or outside government with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Both have said that we behave differently when we are in government with them, than when we are outside, when it comes to the question of assistance. But now it's once that seagoing when we're alone at home, we're doing it very well. We now have a percentage of about 0.95 pst in our budget. of GNI, which is actually higher than what we had in all the four budgets of the Bondevik II government. So we do the jam well at home too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1775	I will first comment on a few things that the representative Kristiansen raised. Internal efficiency improvement accounts. I would very much like to contribute. We have very specific requirements, and this is measured all the way down to each of the heads, both by us and by the National Auditorate in close cooperation with us. I would like to come back to the committee and to the representative Kristiansen to find an appropriate form on how to get to Stortinget with it. But this is a very good thing, which is not only good in defence, but also quite unique, I think, when it comes to modernising the public sector in order to get more effect out of each krona, and I would like to share the happy insight with the representative Kristiansen. When it comes to issues of withdrawal from Afghanistan, I am once again pleased with the question. Norway will be in Afghanistan with military forces until the last day. As long as NATO is there, we'll be there. What the representative may have noticed is that I've said that we're going to wind up engagement in the province of Faryab, because we think it'll be ready for transition by the summer of 2012, and that we can thereby discharge the commitment we've had there by the summer of 2013. But then we will move our presence to Mazar-e Sharif and continue the mission at a reasonably high level – less than now, but perhaps with an estimated few hundred soldiers until NATO is finished. Of course, this is something we do in close cooperation with our allies. I then take with me the comments on openness and insight into numbers. I'm a little bit unsure about what you want more of, but I want to give it, of course. I believe that, as in previous years, we report with concrete measures of operational capability down to daily sailing hours, air hours, etc., and that this is in line with the tradition of both the Ministry of Defence budget and other budgets. I'd like to take a closer look at it -- at least I'm a strong fan of openness. I would like to mention that I basically agree with Eriksen Soreide's statement on competence. We have just launched a major investigation into competence management in the defence sector, with a view to both departmental command and how to manage the entire competence. The defence is today a very modern organisation and even more modern in terms of material and structure than, for example: training courses and staff care, and we will take that. Finally, Karin S. Woldseth's various claims: Many of them are directly crazy. We don't have 1.5 frigate crews, we have 3.5. Our fighter planes are definitely in top international class, as they showed in Libya, and something that our NATO allies are still reporting. Helicopters in Afghanistan have a very high response time and have a better uptime than they had at Bardufoss. The state of defence is not only good, but it is also in constant improvement. I am not familiar with those claims at all, but as has been said, they do not agree with the comments of the Progress Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1788	There has been a good debate, but I have some comments in the end. To Skovholt Gitmark: Of course, there is no regulation for budget support. The most important thing we do is to have close dialogue with the partners in the countries we provide budget support and a close dialogue with the Minister of Finance. What I have doubts about is whether it is possible to establish detailed rules on when the situation in a country is such that it is necessary to withdraw budget support. But let me stress that we have made about budget support for sector support in Burundi. We stopped it in Malawi, and we stopped it in Uganda. In reality, there are only four places we now – I take it after memory – that are operating with budget support. It's in Tanzania, Mozambique, Zambia and the Palestinian territories. I don't think the Right does want to cut the budget support for any of these four areas, and then there's a purely theoretical exercise we're doing now – whether it's possible to create a theoretical code for a theoretical situation – not a practical debate – in any of the places we provide budget support. But if Right wants to cut budget support in Tanzania, Zambia or one of these four areas, then let's have a discussion about it. To the Progress Party: I have repeatedly called for – and I repeat it now – the positive vision of the Progress Party. The progress party wants to spend almost 20,000 million. kr on assistance. It's not a small amount of money. Today's debate is the first time I've heard the Progress Party mention a country that you want to give assistance to – not just countries that you don't want to give assistance to – and that was Ghana. It's great, but there was an interesting cat out of the bag, because we have to expect to know from the Progress Party, as a responsible party, where they will spend so much money. Can we get a list of the countries that are of such a nature and are so all right that they should get money? So if you take a single problem, you're going to have 20 billion. kr divided by, let's say, 0.5 billion. kr per country, become 40 countries. Could we get the list of the 40 countries where the Progress Party wants to spend money, so that we don't have a debate that every time something wrong happens in some country, it's not where to use them, but you're going to theoretically use them somewhere – in cyberspace, right? I don't know. But it has to be possible, when you're going to spend almost 20,000 million. kr of taxpayers’ money – of Norwegian people’s money – to tell where to use it positively, and for what good purposes, because I never hear anything positive about assistance, just negative. Finally, I would like to say that the most politically interesting thing in today's debate is the more sunny alliance between the Red-Green and Christian People's Party. It is the two pillars of ideological Norwegian aid on which Norwegian development policy is based. It is the Church and the labour movement and the many voluntary organizations that have kept it up, which are an extension of the solidarity ideals of the labour movement. It is this alliance that has brought the assistance up to 1 pst., and we are also essentially agreeing on how to use the money. I have noticed Dagfinn Højbråten's statement that cooperation with the right-hand side is like cooperation between fire and water. If fire and water are mixed, something very rarely comes out of it constructively and positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1801	I am pleased with the interest shown by the Minister of Assistance in relation to the assistance budget of the Progress Party. It's probably easier to describe which countries we want to reduce than to frame up all of those we want to continue to engage in. We have already mentioned, and this is also evident from the remarks in the budget position, the Palestinian territories, North Africa and Latin America, which are, in other words, areas we want to give less priority to, but in the case of the poorest countries in Asia and Africa, the Progress Party is on the heels. When I asked to speak, it is probably primarily because the Council of State was so busy with the Busan conference in Korea earlier this month. The Busan Conference in Korea was a follow-up to the Paris Conference in 2005. The Paris Conference in 2005 set 13 objectives to achieve effective assistance. The OECD evaluated this in 2010 and concluded that of the 13 objectives, only one has been achieved. The other 12 measures have failed. This is State Council Solheim so excited that he shines like a sun on the pulpit in Stortinget when he talks about the Busan conference. That's what I think is strong, when it turns out that the process that's been going from Paris to Busan has been so weak. But you're probably doing 1 pst. of GNI, and that's obviously the only goal that matters to this government. That's the goal they set out with two pages of the Norad report that was presented yesterday – the goal of spending 27 billion on it. kr which amounts to 1 pst. of Norway’s gross national income, which is the aid budget for 2011. It also seems that it should be exactly the same as the government wants to measure in terms of the business in 2012, i.e. the budget we are dealing with now. I would urge a certain degree of control over the Busan Conference and the process that lies both before and after it on aid efficiency, since the results so far are welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1810	I am not familiar with the description that the representative Høybråten gave earlier, that I had spoken abusively. For me as a sunmer, industry is a honorary word. In fact, it is not wrong to make money – nor on assistance. As far as the aid industry is concerned, it includes a lot of different things, including: voluntary organisations, resulting from the support they receive from different countries, organisations and collected funds. In the world, there are about 38 000 aid organisations, and it is estimated that 850 billion were used. kr for assistance in 2010. So calling it something other than an industry I would say is wrong. It is estimated that millions of people are getting their wages from the aid industry, and I think that is why we can use that word properly. In addition, there are many both here at home in different organisations, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in the UN, and in other countries working in the bureaucracy, with tasks related to the aid industry. Then I register that I have still not received a response from the State Council of Solheim on how much money, of these 8 billion. kr mentioned in the Evening Post, which is planned to be used either at the end of the year or at the beginning of the following year. Does that include all the money, or are the appropriations too large to be used? Then I just want to end by stressing: there is too little focus on the results of the assistance, and too much focus on how much money you give. I think that's an advantage you could be able to turn the trill around, so that's the results that count.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1823	First to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who claims that I am far from reality. Well, that's not entirely true given that information both the representative Hansen and I have received when we've been to both the north and the west. I'm sorry I said 1.5 instead of 3.5, but it doesn't do well enough anyway. We still have – in reality – two unmanned frigates, which cannot function. I would like to ask the representative Hansen: Where am I wrong – is this about the crew on the frigates or on the submarines? Or is there a lack of technical staff? Is the army flying or technical crew involved? Is it wrong when I say it's professionalism due to reorganization, structural changes and unforeseeable? Or am I wrong about the conditions for NAD in Afghanistan? I would like to hear the representative, Hansen, reply. To the Minister of Defence: when it comes to not being in our remarks, it's quite right. We're adding 970 million to our defense budget. kr. More particularly, it is not realistic to believe that the defense is able to handle within a year. That's why we're not adding more this year. But if we keep adding 1 billion. kr in the year, perhaps eventually you can get an operational and well-functioning defence. But I'm very, very pleased with what the Minister of Defense said in his second post, about competence, and that you now want a comprehensive review of the competence of Defence, because that's where we lack an overview. It is clear that all the defence employees are terribly tired of reorganisations and restructurings, and an incredibly important resource for defence is personnel. Therefore, we must not forget them when we now buy an incredible amount of new equipment. So we have to keep the skills that are in the defense, and not least recruit new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1834	I took the floor to make a few comments. First of all, to Sylvi Listhaug and the word that is now gossiped, but which may be translated as black paint, that is, I stood and painted black in Africa: I fully agree that there are different conditions in different African countries, but I disagree very much with the strategy of the Progress Party. That's about 45 pst. of our overall assistance goes to Africa. So if there had been some propensity in the Advance Party, you'd rather have re-prioritized on the African continent, instead of halving the aid we're now giving to Africa. From 1 January to about 1 May, in the light of the progress of the Party, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee calls it, the proposals promoted by the Party in the context of the State Budget, which together amounted to 100 billion, have been calculated. More than what had been included in the budget, it might be said that the Progress Party lacks bloating skills when it comes to it. Nor is it new that the Progress Party and the Right are united – in a way – not fighting for employee rights internationally. I belong to those who can think that's some reason why the Right Party and the Advance Party stand together to cut off the support for the ILO and drop down on the ILO as an organization. On the contrary, I believe that this is an example of an organisation that is not perfectly operated, but which is very important when it comes to developing internationally equal standards on employee rights, working against child labour, for striked and at all times working for tidy working conditions around the world. Then I register that Listhaug is from Sunnmøre, and that means she can obviously calm down too – the aid industry is a honorary word. At least it wasn't perceived that way in her first post, it was on the contrary put in a very negative context. Then I thank Eriksen Soreide for the preparation. I think it was more precise than what Eriksen Soreide said in his first post. But I think it is quite important to say that there is sometimes a need to twist the assistance and, of course, also to hold back assistance. In the case of Eritrea in particular, there are sanctions in the UN Security Council that of course apply. It's one kind of thing. But it's important that we maybe turn the aid instead of cutting completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1847	Let me start by saying that I think it has been a good debate, an exciting debate. I cannot fail to give a comment to the councillor Solheim, who talked about fire and water. In my understanding of some things, fire and water are essential to man's existence, and so evil it can't be. Of course, there was a third party missing, but I expect the Council of State to be aware of that. Then I also record that the representative Gustavsen needs to conduct the techniques of rule from this pulpit when she defines the concept of 'admissibility'. Is it a special right that the Workers' Party has? Is the propriety of the Workers' Party the right one? Or is it acceptable that others can allow themselves to have a different meaning and a different understanding of it? I'll let the answer hang in the air. I perceive that the representative Gustavsen here is saying that there is only one type of right-wing party, and they belong to one of the government parties and no one else at all, and he had to forbid the Progress Party from claiming such a right! With that as a back carpet, I'm going to go over to talk about what I was really going to talk about, and that's the defense. I will throw the Minister of Defence a cube of 5.5 for a good conduct in this debate. I think he's been good, I think he's been clear, and I don't think at all that he's been clarifying the challenges of communicating with Stortinget. The ability of the size to take on things is certainly variable, cf. Today's debate, but it's probably also so that the government can possibly get a little better, so that we can get up together. Everyone would be worthy of that. Let me then express one of the concerns that may not have been affected, but that are nevertheless important. It's the reputation of the defense. The reputational capital of the defense sometimes seems to me to be badly affected. The defense is doing an incredibly good job out there – it's in South Sudan, Afghanistan or anywhere else in the world where they contribute. It's because they have a good culture from Norway. We have, after all, a rather uncanny way of being like the North, and that quality takes the Defense with us when they're out. That's why I think they sometimes get an unfair criticism of some things they do, maybe not enough well-considered. But if we're going to evaluate the job they're doing, let's now do it with a focus on the positive and don't go to the trench and attack them possibly for the wrong jacket or for the wrong use of slogans. Can we not lift our eyes a little bit and see what they actually contribute to? In my eight years in the Justice Committee, I felt that justice was being discussed up and down and down and back and again. Then I came to the defense. Who's talking about defense? Well, the representative Nybakk and some other particularly interested people do. But too many people take the defense for granted. Our democracy, in my understanding, is built on two pillars. It is based on the principles of the rule of law, respected by the justice sector, and our sovereignty, respected by the Defence as a pre-missive. So let's put the remainder on that. One gets honor and mention, the other – the defense – we take for granted, and I think we should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1862	Fire and water can in themselves be good things, but it is when you mix them together, and in this case the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party mix in this area, that you get an all-gold policy, which will not come out of it at all. What the debate of those degrees has shown is that it is between the government parties and the Christian People's Party that the centre of gravity lies, and that it is the natural cooperation alliance ahead, and also the alliance that makes the Christian People's Party get through very much of it, not least Dagfinn Højbrätten and the party leaders have loved. Finally, let me repeat the challenge to the Progress Party. Now we've been told not to give money to Latin America, including Brazil, and not to North Africa. Nepal was mentioned earlier — one of Asia’s poorest countries — to which no authorisation was to be granted. When the representative Myhre traveled around Africa, he saw no development in Tanzania and Ethiopia, two of the countries that have the fastest economic growth in the world. Uganda has also been mentioned by the Progress Party as a country in which money is not to be spent. On my question about where the Progress Party wants to spend money, you increase the list of places where you don't want to spend money. The only thing we have heard in the debate is that we want to spend money in Ghana – some representatives thought that maybe Tana was the one that was mentioned, and that was where the misunderstanding could arise. In which countries do you want to spend this money? You can't go on keeping people out there year after year saying you want to spend 20 billion. kr, but could not tell one specific location where this is to be used. I repeat and repeat that challenge, but I never get an answer. Of course, it's because the Progress Party will reserve for itself the opportunity to always be critical, instead of coming up with a positive message. I think I should write a letter to the leader of the Progress Party, so that we can get a list of the countries where the Progress Party will positively spend money so that you cannot run away on every occasion. So no one from the government parties has taken up the debate on 1 pst. aid, for that we have achieved, with the good support of the Christian People's Party. Our debate is: how do we use the aid money as effectively as possible? It is the Right Party and the Progress Party that discusses the debate on 1 pst. assistance, as a reason for withdrawing assistance. We have tried to hold a debate on how best to use assistance to achieve energy, forest conservation and agriculture, as well as how to maintain and strengthen our efforts in health and education, which are areas where Norway is a major and heavy international player. The major conference in South Korea, to which reference was made, shows just how important a country that itself has received large amounts of aid over a long period of time seems to be. Probably, without having checked the figures, South Korea is the largest beneficiary of aid – at least one of the largest beneficiaries – in the history of mankind, as a result of their position in the Cold War. They have perceived the assistance that is so useful and effective for themselves that they now want to be an aid provider, and they contact Norway for a detailed and close cooperation with us, because they see us as a country that has a lot to teach them and teach them away. They can teach the world development, but they think Norway can teach them cooperation, and then maybe we can get together a whole lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1882	To the representative, Mr Woldseth, I must point out that there is a difference between three and a half staff and one and a half staff when we have five frigates, because the plan has always been that one should be used for training, one should be for maintenance, and there are three who are going to operate. So three and a half are manned, so what you need to do is not just meet the long-term plan, but the plans that were made when you acquired the frigates. That being said, there is no doubt that there are challenges on the manning side of parts of the defense. That's a perfectly correct observation. It has nothing to do with homes and resources, but it simply has to do with the fact that very competent people end up in Defence and start in the private sector, where, as you know, things are going quite well in Norway, fortunately. That's one of the reasons why we're now going to focus on competence, management, recruitment and how to keep the good people. For today's defenses, in a completely different way from that defended Bredvold and I were common soldiers in their time, is, of course, a competence organization, how about everyone who is there, needs to know things that it takes a long time to learn, and that then requires a long-term investment. So here's the important point, but I thought it was right to point this out. Then I also very much agree with Ellingsen's point, that Norwegian soldiers have not only a high level of competence, but also a good morale, and bring with them good Norwegian values. We see that over and over again in Afghanistan. I was just in Afghanistan last week and got to see once again well motivated and well trained people with a very good understanding of what they are there to do, and what they are not there to do – very impressive every single time. When Norway does so well in Libya, it's because we have modern material, modern weapon systems, sensors, a very high level of training, which is high in the alliance, but it's also because our pilots are able to interrupt a mission if they see that the selection of targets is wrong, because they also have the normative value with them, and it's an important part of having a defense. It is not enough to have equipment, it is also important to mann and keep personnel in a good way. The conversion of the Defense was absolutely necessary. The conversion is not a product of lack of advice, but of the fact that the structure we inherited did not agree with reality. It was designed for the chieftains to be employed, while the Indians were the rest of us, and we were to be mobilized. That's why there were theoretically 13 brigades, but no one had ever seen them. We've started that conversion, we're doing that, and we're about to finish that. That is why I believe that the conversion intensity that has been in parts of the defense is now on its way out, simply because the most important steps have now been taken. We have someone left -- fighter base is an example of that -- but we've done most of it, and that means we'll be there soon. I am very proud of that, and I look forward to a good and close cooperation with the Storting on the further development of this essential resource – in the name of transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1894	It was claimed by the representative Gustavsen that the Progress Party has promised 100 billion. kr more than what we have budgeted for. Well, I've seen the creative calculations of the Workers' Party. But when the Progress Party has not promoted it, it is simply because those calculations are exactly that, creative. It is not the policy of the Progress Party that is being promoted, but there are assumptions and assumptions as to what the Progress Party should have thought, as the Labour Party has done when it has done those calculations. Otherwise, 100 billion. kr much less than the government's running around and promises in the case of lightning trains, which will cost between 200 and 500 billion. kr, without being included in the budget. Yeah, 100 billion. I guess kr is approx. what the fighter aircraft will cost more, without having bothered to inform the Storting properly, but let Norwegian bureaucrats do it in Canada and let the Evening Post bring it back to Norway. In fact, the state budget of the Progress Party is very responsible. We have a power of action and ambition that far exceeds the administrative budget of the government. We have a surplus of 344 billion. kr, against government surplus of 345 billion. kr. We also have an oil fortune of well over 3,000 billion. kr, but we use the space of action that exists in the economy to make important priorities. But everyone who has read the book of Bård Vegar Solhjell, or if not otherwise heard of it, knows that those kinds of repriorities don't have the government to do, precisely because each department sits and protects about what it already has, instead of thinking bigger, thinking more completely and thus getting reformed. So there's an opportunity to do things another way. It proposes the Progress Party – it shows our budget. Then State Council Solheim is concerned about fire and water in the relationship between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. It's not me, because after what I've learned, water turns off fire, and then you can start building great construction works out of the ashes. That's why this has to go very well. What Solheim, on the other hand, should be concerned about, is how a mix of climate policy and oil policy to the government, because water is not very well suited to extinguishing oil fires. On the contrary, oil fires can increase well at sea, without problems. I must therefore assume that it is the Minister for Oil and Energy who has won the government's policy in this context. I am very surprised when the Minister for the Environment and Development comes back from Durban and talks about that now we have to cut even more in Norway. How is he going to do that, when he is simultaneously in a government that has promoted an oil notification that estimates that CO2 emissions will now increase more than they looked to in 2007, as a result of the government's oil policy? Finally, a concrete question for Solheim. He was very busy talking about the aid policy of the Progress Party. But he's got more questions from this pulpit compared to the 8 billion. kr which has not yet been paid. Are there any concrete projects this money is dedicated to? Is a total of $8 billion. kr promised away, but just not paid, or is there a lot of money here that you don't know how to spend?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1910	Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1913	I should perhaps not ask the Council of State to accompany me when I speak, but in my previous post I was actually quite detailed when it came to which countries the Advance Party wants to give priority in terms of assistance. So it is Africa, and it is the poor countries of Asia. When the Council of State says that the Progress Party will not provide assistance to Nepal, where did he come from? I just said in my speech that the poorest countries in Asia must have a high priority. As far as Tanzania is concerned, the Council of State mentions me, who has been on the move and found that there has been no progress in Tanzania. What I said in my main post was: ‘Norway has provided u-help to Tanzania for 50 years. Norway has given the country 23 billion. kr for these 50 years. Of course, this has had an effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1925	Peter Skovholt Gitmark has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1928	The last post of the representative, Gustavsen, was both a little nuanced and not based on facts. When the Right wants to cut support for the ILO, it has nothing to do with a desire for less propriety in working life, on the contrary. But we are based on internationally available evaluations, and we stand firm that we want to turn Norwegian assistance from the multilateral organisations that deliver the least, to those that deliver the most. It's just that we want more for the money we spend. We want to draw the world in the right direction, and we believe that assistance through multilateral organisations is in the right direction. I don't think the representative Gustavsen can say that the United Kingdom through the cut of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, UN-HABITAT or the crisis minimisation strategy organisation is engaged in reversing these areas, on the contrary. Similarly, it's the same thing as the right hand side. We actually want to contribute actively in these areas, but not through the ILO.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1935	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5–7. [[Votation, see pages 1597 and 1607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1951	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1608]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1967	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1610]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e1983	In many ways, this will be a continuation of the debate we have had, and I will basically refer to that debate, which I think has been interesting – that is, the one on development aid and assistance. Two days after the Nobel Weekend, there is one thing we can establish, and that is that there are many elements that are needed to ensure growth, development and democracy. The first condition is that it is peace. In a conflict country, development and well-being are impossible; it taught us on Saturday by the two Liberian Peace Prize winners – those who stopped the bloody civil wars in Liberia, with branches to Sierra Leone, the Blood Diamond wars. Today, West Africa is in strong development, with high growth. A meeting with African church leaders last Wednesday taught us what was there, exactly the same thing, that the first condition is peace. For many years, therefore, Norway, as part of our development and foreign policy, has been involved in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. That was also what Norway prioritised ten years ago, during the two years we sat on the UN Security Council. Maybe we can look at the phase of our work there, which we've gone on for a long time after that, as low-spoken, but results-oriented. African church leaders also underlined something else, namely that trade and investment are essential to create development and subsampling. The same applies to ‘good governance’ or ‘good governance’. Despots and dictators, not to say corruption, rarely create smoothing and equality. Development policies are so much, much more than assistance, but assistance is also important and provides results. It is important to ensure girls education, to prevent HIV/AIDS, to vaccinate children in order to prevent their death before they are five years old, and to contribute to good governance and to strengthen parliaments and political parties. In the debate that has taken place before this, we have recorded that there is a solid majority in Stortinget that supports the level of Norwegian aid we have. It is then essential that the assistance is result-oriented. It is essential that we also discuss the mechanism and priorities of our development assistance. Therefore, it is also important that the Riksrevision looks at the results of Norwegian assistance. Although Document 3:4 for 2010–2011 relates some years back in time, it is nevertheless an important document. I would also like to point out that there are still other documents that are much more relevant than Document 3:4, among others. I suppose there was a new report from Norad yesterday, which has also been commented on before today. There are large amounts that are channelled each year through different donors to aid projects in countries in the south, including large framework appropriations that may be managed too little from the Stortinget. I have spent eight years together in the Foreign Affairs Committee and know that the aid budget could be more detailed, at least the budget presented to the Stortinget. Remember, this is a lot of money. We need to know that the aid money is properly managed and implemented. We need to know that there are people with the necessary skills who are in contact with non-governmental organisations and the multilateral aid system, so that in each co-operation country we can be sure that our bilateral assistance reaches the target groups and the objectives for which we have allocated money. The UN's Millennium Goals remain the central basis for mobilising a common fight against poverty, and so is the report of the National Audit Office. Norway has taken a special responsibility for the thousand-year targets of 4 and 5, which are the fight against infant mortality and the guarantee of maternity – that women do not die in childbirth. Perhaps Norway's main contribution to the fight against infant mortality is our active role in the GAVI vaccine programme, where the achievement of results is very good. GAVI is targeted and concrete and produces results. I would like to pay a special tribute here to Jens Stoltenberg and Dagfinn Høybräten for the work they have done in GAVI. The National Auditor says in the document: ‘The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess the extent to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through results orientation and quality assurance, contributes to the achievement of results in Norwegian long-term assistance.’ So this is a report that is not about emergency aid or humanitarian aid, but about whether long-term development aid gets where it should – and leads to results and goals, without money being lost on the road, among others. to corruption. It may be worth noting here that, after the National Audit Office has carried out its investigation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set up a central control unit for the prevention and follow-up of economic misdemeanour as its primary task. In 2009, standardised procedures for the management of grant funds were also put in place, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided us with information on, among other things. through the hearing we had. Then the Riksrevision addresses a political dilemma: the Paris Declaration — which goes back a few years, it also — to which Norway has joined and which underlines national ownership, i.e. that it is the development strategies of the beneficiary countries themselves that guide bilateral assistance. Repeat the same thing in Prop. 1 S from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the 2012 budget. This can – I would like to stress – conflict with our agreed assistance priorities. However, the Committee, like the Ministry, believes that national ownership is important and points to the choice of cooperation countries, among other things. is based on an assessment of the development policy of the country of destination. However, it does not detract from the responsibility of Norwegian assistance authorities for performance orientation and quality assurance. In addition to having an open consultation in the Committee, we have been to Washington and New York and have had meetings with the World Bank and three UN organisations. The background was, among other things, that the National Audit Office is critical that much of the contact between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassy and the United Nations delegation with the multilateral bodies can be called more day-to-day informal follow-up, if you like. In fact, I believe that such contact is essential for controlling, and influencing, the project work of organisations through which we channel large sums of money. At the same time, it is, of course, absolutely necessary for the Norwegian U.D. to leave its mark on the governance of organisations, because – as the Riksrevision points out – it is difficult to document the whole of the assistance. The Ministry also tells the National Audit Office that they will develop guidelines for Norwegian participation in the UN funds, programmes and special organisations. The Committee also considers that there is a need for enhanced human resources in the follow-up to the large amounts channelled through multilateral funds and organisations. Now I understand from the debate before today that there are parties in this Chamber who have proposed to cut the budget, just to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, of course, also goes beyond the number of employees in both embassies and delegations. Nevertheless, a large part of our assistance is channelled through multilateral programmes, and I would like to stress that I agree with that. I strongly support such a priority. I have seen fields, especially in the United Nations Development Programme’s projects – i.e. UNDP – among others. in Mozambique, in Laos and Vietnam, and is very impressed by the work these organizations are doing down on the grassroots. UNICEF also has very good results, and we know that the World Bank's work is solid. The Committee is also concerned that assistance should be channelled to multilateral organisations that are effective, have high objectives and work in line with the same priorities adopted for Norwegian development policy. I would like to point out what I said earlier, including the Paris Declaration. The National Audit Office has also taken care of private aid organisations — i.e. voluntary Norway. There are many of them, and there are many who are supported, including from NORAD and the Norwegian state. Both the Church's Emergency Aid and the Redd Barna, mentioned in the report, state that administrative capacity is not always a priority for local partners. But it's the local organizations that have local competence, which gives results. We should also take this into account when it comes to the relationship between the major Norwegian aid organisations — including the small ones — and their local partners. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that in Document 1 there have been several comments from the National Audit Office regarding the local partners of Norwegian non-governmental organisations, among others. in Angola. Both NGOs and the UN system have contributed to the fragmentation of donors and programmes. It may be a claim, but it is about a lack of coordination, which contributes to the fragmentation of welfare offers and projects, even to competition between organisations, and may hamper performance orientation. As far as I remember, there were at some point hundreds of aid organizations that almost tripped Bosnia after the end of the war. As far as the UN is concerned, the reform of One UN, which is at the trial stage, can improve the coordination of the individual UN programmes, and we have also had the Resident Coordinator – who has often been the United Nations Development Programme – who has done something of the same. However, there is still a challenge for the Norwegian aid authorities. Let me also stress that there must be zero tolerance towards corruption in our bilateral assistance and our choice of cooperation countries. This is demanding, let's admit it. Among other things, we have committed us to civil assistance to Afghanistan in addition to our military engagement – cf. The Bonn Conference was late-harvest in 2001. There are problems with corruption. At the same time, the need for development is so great that there is a difficult balance. But it's important that we keep pointing this out with corruption, and that we push it to end it. Against the traditional co-operation countries – read Tanzania and other African countries – I believe that we must be uncompromising in the area of corruption and that it must have consequences for our activity and for our commitment. Once again, this is about good governance, which is also among the priority areas for Norwegian aid. Let me stop where I started: aid is part of development policy. Conflict resolution, peace-building, trade and investment are among those areas that lead to much greater growth, development and de-balancing – and to what may be a crucial condition today, which I cannot fail to mention at the end of the day, that individual countries also use the resources and competences of women. Then we'll probably get the result orientation that we're concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2041	Norway spends considerable resources on aid and development each year. It is therefore essential to exercise the necessary control over the use and management of the funds. We need to know if the money is going to show where it is going, if it works according to purpose, and if it gives the results we want. We also need to do what is possible to prevent the funds from disappearing in corruption or in the pockets of unauthorised persons. These objectives have been expressed many times by different governments, state councils and representatives, including from this pulpit. Unfortunately, we all too often see that reality is completely different, and the objectives are not followed up in practice. In the National Audit Office’s study of the Norwegian aid performance orientation, Document 3:4, presented on 13 January, it is stated that ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’s management of long-term assistance is characterised by weaknesses in its planning and follow-up and limited anti-corruption work’. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo stated during the presentation of the study that although the ministry had ‘implemented important actions, there are still clear improvements in bilateral assistance and Norwegian follow-up to the UN’. Over many years, the size has expressed expectations of increased earnings focus in Norwegian aid, but this has been slightly followed up. The study shows clear weaknesses in the department's planning, follow-up and prevention of corruption in bilateral assistance. Furthermore, it is claimed that the Ministry’s ‘assessments of compliance with basic quality requirements by aid measures are deficient, thus increasing the risk of weak achievement’. Looking at multilateral assistance, the study shows that the Ministry’s ‘work to improve the UN’s follow-up is not high enough as a matter of priority. Norwegian efforts in the governance of UN organisations show varying follow-up of the performance reporting and oversight functions of organisations’. Norwegian follow-up is also poorly documented, which weakens the possibility of targeted and long-term follow-up by organisations. ‘It is unfortunate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not using its position well enough to increase knowledge of the results of the assistance and contribute to a more effective UN’, said the National Auditor during the presentation of the report. It is not difficult to join his statement. Norway is engaged in aid and development work in some of the most corrupt countries in the world. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore tried to develop measures to detect and deal with corruption in aid. However, the study shows that the Ministry’s assessments of anti-corruption measures are deficient in bilateral assistance and that Norway has a limited follow-up to the anti-corruption work of the UN funds and programmes. The Court of Auditors' report is largely disappointing. I think it applies to all of us, not just those of us who want a different size and a different device on the aid. The report clearly shows that there has been too much focus on the size of the aid without the development of a device that has been able to handle it. From the Norwegian side, it has obviously been most important to contribute the largest amounts and be the best in the class. Then you have not been so careful to follow up if the assistance came up, if it has made any difference at all, or if it may have ended up in the pockets of the outside person. What is presented in this report is not unique. The press has also revealed several aid scandals where Norwegian money has disappeared in corruption. The evening post wrote on 29 October about an aid project in Tanzania, which amounted to 150 million. NOK 300 million in total. kr had disappeared in corruption. When this was discovered, the Norwegian authorities were able to get back NOK 750000 – NOK 750000 out of SEK 300 million. kr! And as if this wasn't enough, at the same time, the Minister of Development promises new 500 million. kr to this corrupt country. When we were recently handed over the annual audit and control for the financial year 2010 — Document 1 — there were also firm weaknesses and deficiencies in the management, follow-up and control of aid funds, this time in Afghanistan. This shows that Norwegian aid and development policies have been too naive. I am pleased that a unanimous committee underlines the importance of proving that the money is being spent wisely and that we must have a critical look at it at all times. A unanimous committee also notes that an important part of the performance orientation and the results measurements is that the funds reach the designated target audiences and that they deliver results according to policy-driven objectives. It is also agreed unanimously that performance focus and quality assurance must be at the heart of Norwegian aid and development work. All of this is good, but all of this has been both said and written before, without at least so far having given any visible results. These beautiful words must also be actively followed up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have heard too many party speeches about how important it is that we have control of Norwegian aid money, without this being followed up. I therefore assume that this time the government takes these clear signals from a unanimous staging. On our side, I would also like to stress that we – as one of the most distinguished contributors to the UN – must take advantage of this position far better than today. The UN appears to be a heavy rod and bureaucratic organisation that is sorely in need of innovation and reform. The government has also pointed out the need for reforms on a number of occasions, and the Prime Minister has also played an active part in the reform work. However, resistance to reforms within the organisation is shown for various reasons. As the significant contributor Norway is to the organisation, we should be much more actively involved in the organisation's various governance and use our financial muscles to bring about the renewal and reforms that the organisation obviously needs. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mrs Nybakk, for the cooperation in the matter, which has led to a number of important comments now being unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2081	I would also like to join in and thank the rapporteur, who has included in the pen an attitude that is not influenced by the servility that – sometimes – can express the treatment of national audit reports by the government parties. It's not this time. But at the same time, I want to highlight a little distance by saying that no, this debate is not a continuation of this morning's debate. This morning’s debate focused on the amount of assistance; it is now under control — and control is equally important whether the budget contained a proposal of 2 billion. kr i u-help or 27-28 brd. kr. in u-help. Control is equally important at any stage. At the same time, it must be admitted that there is hardly any area that has over time had as strong a budgetary increase as the development budget, and there is a danger that attention may focus more on increase than on control. But control is equally important no matter what stage you move at. Before I go into the position, I would like to say the following for the sake of balance: There is a lot of good assistance today, both from the Norwegian side and internationally. When this debate is marked by criticism, it is because that is what it is about. This does not mean that this is typical of everything that operates — whether bilateral or multinational. Then we can also add that it is not always as easy to measure the effect of aid, because the aid itself can work very positively in a country, but it is then counteracted, for example. of the country’s economic policy – yes, it can even be ruined by its economic policy. This has most often been the case where things have gone wrong. So it is not just amateur behaviour, or naivety from aid workers, as was said in previous articles – and good will must not be mixed with naivety. I don't think it's affected, but working in a country where you can sometimes get the feeling that the authorities are working against the aid can be demanding. But then there is a political question – and that is not what the Riksrevision is supposed to assess – whether the country's policy as such should also be an argument for saying that we are now stopping aid, now we have tried enough, and that is not going in the right direction. More specifically to the setting: there are two concepts that go back here in the Riksrevision report. One is performance orientation and the other is quality assurance. It's connected. This is not the first time there has been criticism in the area of aid in relation to audit reports. Something has happened, and I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for it. I just have to say that honor should also be given when there is a basis for it, and establishing this so-called central control unit with the prevention and follow-up of economic mischief as the main task is a step in the right direction. But then we come to this report. The criticism of part of multilateral assistance is repeated. I would like to add, for my part, that what made the strongest impression during the visits to the United Nations delegation was actually to substantiate the criticism put forward by the National Audit Office, namely that the continuity of the follow-up to the United Nations Organisation is deficient. It is not due to naivety or evil will, but my analysis is at least due to the recruitment system on which the EEAS is based, which is excellent in many areas, but which is insufficient to ensure the continuity of the same people who for a long time follow the same tasks and areas. I'll do another example, which in and of itself represents something of the same thing. This committee has been and visited a number of foreign stations with a strong aid focus, and when you meet a leader of such a delegation that says that – excuse the oral expression, President, but this is meant to be an indirect quote: Do you know what I need? I don't need any more people from the U.D. or from Norad, I actually need a good accountant to follow where the budget support goes. That's when I put that question back to the Minister for Development, which I think can think a little unconventional sometimes: shouldn't it be an idea to look at other expertise where the stations out there need it, just to follow with both budget support and how the multinational organizations operate? Now, the main part of this control is to be at the central level; it is to be done through the headquarters of the organisations, mainly linked to the UN location, but also there are some shortcomings that I would like to point out. One is that the big organizations have governments that are very much influenced by being administrative. This means that the board of directors are so complex that it changes who meets, and it changes who is in charge, and who is in charge, is in charge of a very short period of time. This is the recipe in the management philosophy of an organisation to be managed by an executive director, and it is, of course, also. There's a weakness that doesn't last – and perhaps the Riksrevision is also a bit of an error in the criticism – just to be active on the board, because the board rarely meets, but it's about being active in the follow-up of the organisation continuously, on the spot, right now and then, mainly in New York. That follow-up has been entrusted to the United Nations delegation. The UN delegation is very exciting, and world developments are on the UN delegation’s table. My impression is that those who have been given the job of accompanying the aid work are very few, they are competent, but – you world – it is completely inadequate. We met these people directly, and I have to say that they gave a good professional impression. However, it does not compare with being able to keep track of these large billions that go through the organisations in relation to both being performance-oriented – as it is called – and having sufficient quality assurance. There you have to trust the good will in the organisations, and it is – with its multinational composition – not always according to Scandinavian model, to say it carefully. That is why it is very strong when it comes to an overall committee which underlines: ‘The Committee points out that the government has carried out assessments of multilateral organisations in 2009 and 2010. The Committee considers this to be positive, but calls for far clearer and more systematic budgetary implications, in line with the results of the evaluations.» To put it another way: some organisations run well, others run badly. It is difficult to see that it is reflected in the amounts given to organisations each year. Then it's not just useful to stand in this room and say that we're the world's best place to provide support to UN organizations. Whether we are the world's best in performance orientation and quality assurance is a completely different question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2110	The centre party prioritises international solidarity, and we are strong and reliable friends of offensive Norwegian aid policy. However, assistance is not a simple matter. The Norwegian aid budget for 2012 is nearly 28 billion. kr, and the aid budget increased by a total of 43 pst in the period 2005-2009. In other words, there is a large amount of money associated with a large number of projects in many countries. Assistance management is characterised by complex relationships, international cooperation at different levels, many donor constellations, and the main effort is in countries with significant corruption problems. That's the facts. Increased aid budgets and the diversity of donors and recipients are something this government can be proud of. At the same time, however, it is a challenge for Norwegian aid management. It doesn't keep being positive in a naïve way. Real aid friends also ask critical questions. Assistance must work as intended. It will help those who need it the most — those who live in need and poverty, who cannot read or write, who lack food, clean water or elementary health care, who lack work skills or a necessary means of production. The aim is nothing less than to bring families, villages and entire regions and countries into the path of development, peace and prosperity. Therefore, unintended consequences need to be carefully investigated and then controlled. Money without control will be a curse. Assistance must be constantly improved, and therefore we in the Centre Party welcome all critical and constructive studies of the results achieved in the aid management. The representative Foss was concerned that he was surprised that there was such a critical undertone from everyone in the committee. I'm glad to be part of it. The legitimacy of Norwegian aid policy is also entirely dependent on us playing with open cards and producing conditions so honestly and honestly that we can. It's the taxpayers' money we manage, and they always deserve to be spent rationally and wisely. Finally, I would like to stress that aid alone has never got a country out of poverty and underdevelopment. It is ultimately the country's seas with its political leaders and institutions responsible for the country's progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2120	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good review of what this matter is all about. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we see the National Audit Office's investigations as an important tool for improving efficiency and achieving the objectives of the use of public funds. This applies in all areas of society, whether the theme is activity here in Norway or – as in this case – performance orientation in Norwegian aid. The national audit report is both critical and constructive, as it should be. I would like to express a recognition of the work done by the National Audit Office in these investigations. We can discuss the details, but the system of the Riksrevisions studies has come to be. We are experiencing significant weaknesses in the review of activities here at home in Norway, and we must expect even greater challenges for businesses to be carried out outside, in some of the world's poorest and often most conflict-affected countries. The National Auditor's office says the following: «The management of assistance is characterised by international cooperation, complex donor constellations and efforts in countries with limited management capacity.» Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other Norwegian actors in the development work have been working for increased quality assurance and stronger performance focus in the last decade. There have been improvements, for example: in the form of organisational changes to strengthen the work of the UN funds and programmes. This has been absolutely necessary, but the potential for improvement is still considerable. One example is the follow-up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the anti-corruption work through Norway’s participation in UN organisations. Three of them have been examined by the National Audit Office at this time, and the conclusion is that Norway has followed up to a very limited extent the fight against corruption in the period 2006-2009 — despite the fact that the Stortinget has been promised to increase the emphasis on anti-corruption work. I would like to know whether the constitutionally responsible state councils have been familiar with this fact, or whether they have also gained new knowledge through the critical points of the National Audit Office. There's an important question, as there seems to be a gap between what the Biggest has been informed and what the Riksrevision points out. Among the positive features of the report is the fact that UNICEF, the UN Children's Fund, has proven to have great capacity in the field. The National Audit Office further considers that the follow-up to the accounts of local partners by this United Nations organisation needs to be assessed as satisfactory. It's also positive. The donor countries have joined forces to achieve better coordination of assistance. That's the target. However, in several co-operation countries, the Riksrevision has recorded increasing numbers of donors and more fragmentation of donors and programmes. It challenges both the performance orientation and the effectiveness of assistance. I think the Riks revision is quite right that several UN organisations have large and heavy governments and, consequently, rare board meetings. It helps to make it the administration that rules. The National Audit Office believes that there is a need to strengthen Norway’s human resources to monitor the large amounts we channel through the UN Organisation. We should follow that up in the budgets ahead. Strong budget cuts for aid administration, some of which are included in the next year's budget, are therefore wrong medicine. It is positive that the government strengthens the assessments of the effectiveness of the various multilateral organisations. What we are now calling for is that this is followed up by a clearer impact on the budgetary priorities of the aid budget. Also from the Christian People's Party, we will highlight the challenges of many developing countries having major corruption problems, low levels of economic freedom and a limited degree of democracy. Often, property rights are also poorly protected, and industrial development is hampered by such conditions. Of course, it also affects the ability of assistance to achieve results. The discussion on Norway provides assistance to too many countries often becomes too superficial in my view. Well, there may be reasons why our bilateral state-to-state assistance needs to be concentrated on fewer countries than today, while our diversity of voluntary organisations can have well-founded partnerships with local actors in many different poor countries. I think that maybe the Progress Party and the Right Party are ignoring something. There may be good reasons why different aid channels have different geographical concentration guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2149	First, I want to thank the National Audit Office for the thorough work that has been done, and I join those who say that this is a significant contribution to a better understanding of how our procedures work, and how they can be done better. I am also pleased that, on the part of the committee here in the Chamber, it is recognised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken up what the Riksrevision has pointed out, that we have worked on it systematically, and that we have made quite clear changes in our own configuration in the Department for, among other things. to combat corruption, have a central control unit to assist us. These are new ways of working, and we think it'll give us results. I join most of the things that have been said in the different posts here. I just want to elaborate in some areas. With regard to the control of the large funds and programmes – the representative Foss was involved in this – I am the first to say that yes, it is complex to be able to follow each krone from Norway into these programmes and out on the ground again. It's quite obvious that our UN Delegations have a lot of work to do here. If we had to put all the control capacities on those who work at these delegations, it would obviously be crazy. I want to add two things in this context. One is what we follow up at country level, where we can see the reception capacity of what these do in their work through our embassies in the field. I also want to focus on what Norway has done to strengthen the control procedures that these organisations themselves have. I want to say that, for example, in relation to a modern organisation such as GAVI, their external auditor, who is in and overseeing the work of the GAVI, is a security for us, so that the money is spent reasonably. We have taken signals from this control unit when we have assessed whether payments are being made as they should be. This also applies to another complex organisation, the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held back a payment at the end of the year because we were inconvenient with the results, and we received satisfactory answers from the organisation itself. So here we have to work strategically. I agree with the representative Foss that the management function of these organisations can stand back in relation to what you would like. But it is now that being on the board is important for Norway, to be active when we participate there, as we are. now in the World Health Organisation, which is one of the organisations to which the Committee has critical comments. That was also the case in the Chamber earlier today. Examples of major issues where Norway in the management board of the organisation has taken steps to bring about changes are joint performance-oriented budgetary reform in UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF, more detailed reporting on alerts issues and how they are followed up – it has been the front of Norway – strengthening the audit capacity of organisations, i.e. their own capacity, greater transparency and requirements for organisations on clearer strategic focus, more performance-based governance and better performance reporting. Then I would like to say to the representative, Mr Becquerad, when it came to our capacity to manage the assistance: yes, it is a dilemma that I myself face when we get increased budgets, whether we can be sure that we have the capacity to follow it up. At least it is not a good strategy to propose very comprehensive cuts in the administration of the EEAS. Here, it's given the impression earlier in the debate that you can take out efficiency potentials at the administration because you can run all of this easier. We are constantly looking to streamline the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Large investment in emergency response centres, security measures at embassies, communication capacity, etc. have been taken through internal efficiencies. But a significant reduction in the number of people working with the administration, in this context, I will not be advised. And so, since I've been working in a United Nations organization, I would also say that these organizations also have a great deal of pressure from the donors on what they can use for administration, or so-called overhead, what they can use to manage the work. Most donors – and you can understand that – put the percentage very, very low in the hope that the best of what is given should go to the field. It's a goal I support, but I think we also need to have recognition that good people, who also cost, are required to control. I want to bring with me the recordings that have come. We are aware that there is a great responsibility for those who work in the foreign service to follow up this money. We are fully aware that this is the taxpayers' money. Finally, I would like to say that we must not end up there being so caught up in the control focus that we almost fail to realize that there is also very, very important work out of the money we are actually using here, and that active democracy and civil society are involved in taking care of it, and are also giving us impulses to shift focus as to where we get the most effective assistance possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2173	I had so far expected the Minister for Development to be present during the examination of this matter, but I record that this is not the case. On the part of the government, it has been argued a number of times that performance orientation and anti-corruption work should be given priority and that aid should be fully transparent. In the Tanzania case, claims have been made that the principal auditor, who discovered most of the corruption, was squandered because he did not like to be spoken publicly. How does this harmonize with the government's objective of transparency in aid, and what signals does this send to others who are set to control the use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2180	I am not aware that someone has been tried out. If you'd like, I'll get it cleaned up. It's a serious charge. What I can point out is that we have strengthened the control of the way Norwegian resources are used in this context by means of internal intervention in the Department, the Central Control Unit, and have had a very active invitation for alerts to be displayed if they feel that something is somehow irregular. I think that has strengthened both the control of money use and the certainty that they will be applied in a good way. The relationship that the representative points to, I'm not familiar with, so I have to be allowed to look after it and come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2185	When this study was presented, National Auditor Jørgen Kosmo asserted that it is unfortunate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not using its position in the government well enough to increase knowledge of aid results and contribute to a more effective UN. When the committee took this up with the Norwegian delegation in New York, we were confirmed that participation in the board was a priority for more direct contact with the organisations in the field. During the hearing in Stortinget, the Minister for Development and his companions gave a completely different explanation and claimed that active governance was and would be prioritised. Will the Foreign Minister now clarify these conflicting opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2193	That's not necessarily a contradictory answer. There may be a difference between the political management priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Constitutional Council of State, of the desire to prioritize governance as part of the Norwegian target achievement, and the current instructions to Norwegian Foreign Offices to be active in the governing bodies of the organisations where we provide money. As I know our UN delegations both in Geneva and in New York, they are very active against all organisations, in order to promote Norwegian vision, and because we are often an important giver – not the largest in volume, but nevertheless an important giver – we are also listened to. So there's the balance between the participation of the board and the resources it requires of us both in terms of personnel and in terms of attention at home, and the diplomacy of our people who have been sent can drive – or the combination of this – that gives us the best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2200	Let me first say that I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is very important that the organisations establish their own professional control procedures. It was also included in my post, but let me say that there is agreement on that. But it varies a lot from organization to organization, and that's why I react a little to the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is just drawing out the good examples. In the case of GAVI – a new organisation, professionally built – a little has been learned from the experience. But there are a number of UN organisations that operate too much on autopilot and that have not learned from recent management philosophies or control procedures. I'm not going to start a budget debate with the Foreign Minister here, considering that the budget is as good as adopted, but I think that within the overall capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are opportunities to focus more on control procedures, including in the UN. With respect to reporting, the capacity of the Norwegian delegations is limited and their professional opportunities are also limited. [[President clubs]] I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs which UN organisation has just been cut off from support as a result of control procedures. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2209	The president just wants to remind us that speaking time is 1 minute in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2212	I agree that there are organisations that it is important to look closely at this with control bodies. My impression now is that there are very few who can control autopilot. This is not just a debate we have in Norway, but all the central donors have this in focus. That's the one. The second is that in the time of the financial crisis, I believe that most organisations that want to be relevant in the future will give priority to this, so that they have high confidence in the donors. I note what has been said, both by the National Audit Office and in the reports here today, about a greater focus on control procedures. I believe that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since the Riksrevision started this work, have increased the focus there significantly. Then we have to find the balance, so that we don't become overfocused on control, but also become focused on politics and what we want to get out of it, and that we manage to engage with these organizations, so that we either through governance or through the diplomatic work we do, we have an impact on both the political direction they take, and the control procedures they choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2219	Yes, but there is a lot of policy in good control and especially in taking the consequences of it. That's often what's missing. We establish devices that control, but if you know that the control does not have any consequences, the control does not have any particular effect either. My question is: has the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his field – since I am not allowed to ask him who is not here – examples of having stepped down the support of UN organisations, or perhaps completely cut it out, as a result of dissatisfaction with the internal control procedures? If there are no such examples, you have to be satisfied across the line, and that is not in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2226	Of the organisations for which I am responsible – not within the central development organisations – Norway has not cut down on contributions. But e.g. in the case of the Balkans, we have cut down on land aid as a result of political choices and priorities. Then we have maintained our membership quotas for organisations that are in my responsibility. We have not had any cuts there as a result of the checks we have carried out. I think the Minister for Development must give a more detailed answer on the organisations for which he is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2231	I would like to say that then it is striking that the Constitutional Council of State is not present and cannot answer any questions. As far as I know, it's not bad this time either in Brussels or at the Gardermoen. We are in a situation where we can no longer debate with state councils present.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2236	That's what Stortinget noticed. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2241	This is an important report with which the National Audit Office has worked a great deal, and important findings have been made during the work of the National Audit Office. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also done a thorough job with this setting. We've been on committee missions to New York and Washington, and we've been discussing a lot of the issues and findings that the Riksrevision has done. I want to thank both the Riksrevisionen and, not least, the case rapporteur, Marit Nybakk, who has put a lot of work into this. I think it's unacceptable what we now experienced in the line change, that a government council responsible for the fraction of what we're actually dealing with here today is not present. He was present at the beginning of the meeting and has allowed himself to leave the wholesale meeting in the middle of the treatment of such a type of case. As chairman of the committee, I would like to express my disappointment from the Chair and that I find it unacceptable. I think the Foreign Minister should take it back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2248	The President would just like to point out that he has also registered that the responsible State Council has left the Chamber during the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2251	Let me first point out that it is very funny that the responsible State Council is not present. We are now in the situation that the responsible state council is first present and listens to the first two posts, and then the foreign minister comes and listens to the last. This may be in the sense that it may be communicated, but I would nevertheless like to stress what the chairman of the committee said about the work done by the committee in this matter. I actually took the floor again as the case rapporteur to comment on what the representative Per-Christian Foss said, and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs also commented on in connection with the Per-Christian Foss interventions, and that is that funds channelled into the multilateral system are being followed up. Of course, it's being followed up by the United Nations Delegation in New York. It has been thoroughly involved in this, both by being in New York and by having a hearing here at home where the Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was present, and in Washington with regard to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. However, I would like to add to the representative Foss that I believe that I have seen enough, even by self-esteem, that there are equally representatives in the embassies and in the outings of the individual countries of cooperation – or countries of destination – who follow up on the work of the multilateral system. Overall, there are also considerably more than our people in New York and Washington who see to it that the projects are implemented, and that this is done in a proper way, and that follows well up both the board and the individual projects locally. However, let me add when we first talk about the embassies outside, that the hearing also found that a few years ago Norad was admitted to the outings – i.e. into the embassies – could have led to a deterioration in the technical competence of the aid. Nevertheless, there are embassies with some large crew, among others. in Mozambique, Tanzania and elsewhere, following not only bilateral projects but also multilateral assistance channelled through UNDP, UNICEF, etc. That's probably also the case, and as I said in my first post, that in the previous debate it was noted that there were parties in this room that would actually significantly weaken the foreign service, and at least it does not help in the manning situation either in our delegation in New York or out in the beneficiary countries. This debate has otherwise shown, as the previous debate did, that the Progress Party has a completely different view of aid and development than the rest of the Stortinget. We are all concerned with results orientation, control and corruption when dealing with the Riksrevision report. That's our job, it's important that we follow it up and it's important that we do a real job with it. But that doesn't mean we're against aid. On the contrary, a large majority in this Chamber support Norwegian aid and the underlying priorities for aid and development policy. I think that's quite essential to get underlined. When we try to do something about corruption in beneficiary countries, that doesn't mean we're against the aid projects that run in those countries. I want to point out what I said about Afghanistan in my first post. Neither do I, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, believe that the UN organisations are going on autopilot. I think it's an important dynamic in the work that many UN organizations do. I have seen projects that have impressed me very much, among other things. prevention of HIV/AIDS in Mozambique, for which several UN organisations – otherwise in cooperation with Norad and Norwegian bilateral assistance – were responsible. Finally, development policy is much more than assistance, but assistance provides results and is important. I want to refer to what I said in my first post about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2273	I'm taking with me the messages that are addressed to my colleague, and I'm just going to share that we follow closely what's being said here in the hall, and take with us all that comes from the impression. The Secretary of Development is on a plane, so that's why he's not here now. I want to clarify two things: we also need to be vigilant to evaluate the UN organisations as aid channels alone. I say that because I've worked in one of them, which is obviously not an aid channel, even though they also work with help at country level. The World Health Organisation has a crucial contribution as a standard and standard developer. Much of our contribution goes to the kind of work in which to keep a high level of integrity at the advice they give, about pandemics, for example. These organisations’ challenge is often to be relevant both to rich, developed countries such as Norway and to a poor developing country in mid-Africa, both seeing themselves serving the normative work they do. Although most organisations have a poverty focus because they want to fight poverty, they know that they are in a difficult situation if they lose credibility and anchor in developed countries. That's why it's a balance sheet. So to the question of whether there are organisations where Norway has made cuts. To the representative Foss, I would just like to say, after consulting the papers, that the FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, is an example of an organisation in which Norway has cut significantly in support due to a lack of reform. There we now see the will to reform and will follow it closely. But it is also true that the FAO, an organisation for agriculture and nutrition, is an important organisation for Norway in addition to the organisation’s country level. This balance sheet we have to figure out. This is not in any way an excuse for the poor operation of organisations — nor at headquarters level. Then I just want to underline the work I experience is important in the relationship with the United Nations. Norway is important in the UN. But my experience is that where we're able to make a difference in the United Nations is when we go with others and become a bigger vote against the regimes. We often have the impression in Norway that because we have the highest payment per capita, we're also as heavy out there. I would like to point out that the cooperation we have started with Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden – three important developed countries – to strengthen the performance of the UN organisations with particular emphasis on heavyweights such as UNDP, UNICEF and UNEFPA is something to which we attach much hope, because we believe this is a voice that will be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2301	For 2011, it was granted 39.2 billion. kr to the defence sector. The defence has a significant acquisition activity and manages large amounts of material. Good internal control in the Defence is therefore essential for the effective prevention and detection of maladministration in acquisitions and property management. Previous audits of the defence sector's accounts have revealed errors and deficiencies related to both material management and compliance with procurement law, see Document 1 for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. The accounts for 2004 and 2005 were not approved by the Riksrevisionen. Today’s Document 3:9 for the 2010–2011 Riksrevisionen examines whether, in the light of the Storting decision and assumptions, adequate internal control has been put in place in the defence sector to prevent and detect maladministration. The defence has an internal organisation in which managers at the level under the head of defence have been given authority and responsibility as heads of defence units, so-called DIFs. Masters at this level include, for example: the general inspectors and the head of the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO). These managers are managers with budgetary and performance responsibilities, known as the ‘BRA managers’. These manage departments at BRA level. However, there are a number of shortcomings in the implementation of the formal framework in several areas, such as the establishment of the formal framework. The study identified the following weaknesses in implementation: – weaknesses in risk management and poor quality of work on internal control at the local level in defence departments – weaknesses in internal control and breaches of legislation and practices in acquisitions and material management – lack of knowledge of the work on attitudes, ethics and management. Defence is one of the State sectors with relatively large purchases in the form of current operations and obviously large amounts of investment. The defense has a significant amount of material. It is essential for society that the defence with all its underlying establishments has a clear code of practice. According to the Financial Management Regulations of the State, Section 14, all establishments are required to establish internal control systems and procedures. This shall help to prevent the occurrence of errors, maladministration and financial crime. A Joint Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have established a clear framework to prevent and detect critical issues, and notes that the Riksrevision does not present any criticism. However, much remains to be done to apply this framework within the organisation. The Committee has noted that the report identifies weaknesses in the following areas: risk management, internal control at the local level through defence departments, internal control and breaches of laws and practices in acquisition and material management, and in the field of attitudes, ethics and management. In their letter dated 6 May 2011, the Ministry of Defence replied that they are familiar with these challenges and that they are working long-term to address shortcomings and weaknesses. It is reasonable that the full impact of the measures will take some time — some time — but an overall committee points out that the weaknesses could not be of a new date for the defence management. The report shows that the state of defence needs to be greatly improved. The Committee considers that the situation is serious, that there is a real risk of non-compliance and that this will not be captured by today’s practice of internal control. The Committee shares the views of the National Audit Office on the need for the management of the defence – at all levels – to show the necessary managerial responsibilities and ensure that the framework is fully implemented. In addition to its follow-up, the Committee points out, in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office, that it is necessary to strengthen commercial competence and material management competence at all levels concerned. The Committee points out that the report identifies weaknesses in risk and internal control and considers that the Minister of Defence is reviewing these procedures with the management of the Defence. The Committee has paid particular attention to the low use of the precious SAP IT management system in procurement processes. The entire 72 pst. of all acquisitions do not follow the main process of SAP. A good and expensive tool such as SAP, which largely prevents defaults and errors, must be used. In particular, the Committee emphasises that the 2010 business plan set the objective of following the main SAP process in 55 pst. of all purchases by the end of 2010. However, the main process for 2010 was only followed in 28 pst. of the acquisitions, and for the months November and December 2010 respectively in 35 pst. and 23 pst. of the acquisitions. The defence is thus significantly below its own target. There is also a large amount of deviation from the main process: it amounts to a total of approx. 10 B.C.E. kr – I repeat 10 billion. kr. The deviation from the main process applies primarily to operating acquisitions, where the acquisitions where the main process was not followed were probably 9 billion. kr — a formidable sum. The Committee assumes that the management system SAP will be followed for the next three years, as the follow-up report of the Riksrevision will be available for re-examination. It has been found in the National Audit Office that there are deficiencies in the material management of the Defence Agency for several years – cf. Document 1 for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. The Committee now assumes that the material accounts will be in order as of 1 January 2012, i.e. in just over one year’s time. The time is more than a button, based on the Storting's unanimous committee. There is an overall committee asking that we be properly briefed on the follow-up to this point. As rapporteur, I am pleased that the Committee's position is unanimous on all points. It's strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2345	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has provided a unanimous attitude here, and a very good attitude. I would also like to refer to what the rapporteur said – I only have a few comments. One is that there are not a few reports from the National Audit Office that have taken up financial management and internal control in defence over the years and that have been dealt with in this Chamber. I would also like to refer to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who, in an earlier debate today, stressed that from 2001 to 2005, the Riksrevision provided a full library full of reports on the defence and the lack of financial management in the Defence. However, reports have also been received since 2005. The most serious matter that we've dealt with, I think was the so-called Noble case, and it didn't even discover the Riksrevision. It was actually today's business that dug it up. It was there that we experienced that former director of Noble, and otherwise both the Inspector General of the Air Force and the head of what was then FOHK – Joint Operational Headquarters – said to Today’s Business that you are the world, there was so much money involved! It was then that there were hundreds of millions from the defence budget who had gone to develop a civil radar, money that would go to a military radar. This civil radar probably makes the former fighter pilot prosperous, because it has come well into the US market, but is thus developed by defence means. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee raised a case at the time, and we had a longer debate here in the Stortinget. So it is today a unanimous vote by the Committee. A unanimous committee points out that the state of defence needs to be greatly improved; in fact, the committee perceives the situation in such a way that there is a real risk of default and that this will not be captured by today's practice of internal control. Furthermore, the leadership of the defence at all levels must demonstrate the necessary managerial responsibility and ensure that the framework is fully implemented, because there is a framework, and that framework should also be praised for political leadership in the Ministry of Defence. It implies and means that today's political leadership in the Ministry of Defence has also understood that there have been problems in the defence, and that there has been a great deal of cleaning up in what was of economic problems and in the management of the economy. So now it's not the first time such comments are written in a Size option. I would like to advise the civil service – there are probably some people from there in the lodge – that it can be easy sometimes to read settings from Stortinget about what is written about the defence, and not just relate to documents that come from the Ministry of Defence itself. We are talking in this context about weaknesses in areas such as risk management, internal control and breaches of legislation and procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2358	Just a few very brief comments on the matter. Defence is one of the government sectors that manage significant funds and makes large purchases for both operations and investments each year. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have developed a clear framework, with the aim of preventing and detecting critical issues, there is unfortunately a great deal missing from the use of this framework within the organisation. The report of the National Audit Office identifies weaknesses in risk management and internal control as well as breaches of acquisition and material management regulations and procedures. Like the rapporteur, I am pleased that all comments in the vote are unanimous and that they stress that the state of defence needs to be greatly improved. The Committee also points to the serious fact that there is a real risk of default and that this will not be captured by today’s practice of internal control. This is very serious, and here the Minister of Defence must immediately take the necessary steps to ensure that the legislation is not just a sleeping legislation in a drawer, but a code with which all parts of the organisation should both be familiar and follow the dot and the dot. The recently received annual audit and control report for the financial year 2010, Document 1 for 2010-2011, which we will come back to later, also states that the defence has still not established a complete central material account and that there are still major weaknesses in the procurement processes. I hope the relatively fresh Minister of Defense sees that these conditions are not sustainable and cannot continue, and I look forward to hearing what he will actually do to bring these matters right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2371	There is a lot of money The defence manages, which is also underlined by the case-rapporteur, who has also put forward a good position – all due respect for it – at least in the light of the political views of the rapporteur and my views on this matter. We are strong supporters of the Defense, of a modern and strong defense. This means that our interest in making good use of the money is the greater. So control and control procedures are so important to us defence friends as well. It is true that the defence up through time has been subjected to quite strong criticism from the National Audit Office. It has always been taken seriously. It's getting better, and there was plenty of room for the improvement process. But still very much remains when it comes to acquisition processes. It's a shame, because as a number of representatives of the sitting government have underlined, this is where there's a lot of money to pick up. I also see unmet defence needs. So when we talk about billions of totals for government in terms of efficient procurement processes, it's a criticism that should be taken seriously. Two words also about the general transparency of economics and defence. We are now faced with the treatment of the large fighter aircraft project. I would like to stress to the new Minister of Defence, who has a good background in the ministry, that there is a need for transparency about the fighter aircraft project in order to ensure the counterweight to the disinformation, in part, carried out by individual teams. We experienced during the acquisition process that those who would influence were driving disinformation – it was quite natural, and they had their allies both here and there. But now we have another process, where there are still many confusing numbers spreading. So being open and having accurate and up-to-date information to the public is important. This, of course, applies even more strongly to Stortinget. I react when a counter-miral, as a result of a State Secretary, meets a Canadian Parliamentary Committee and stresses that these are not publicly available figures, so the figures are not given to the Stortinget. Informing it to another parliamentary committee in another country says that there are some remaining learning processes to discover point (1) where you are going, and that there are public records, and point (2) that the information is to come to the Grand Duchy first. Now I say so mildly and openly, because I know that the Council of State has received a letter that he has promised to answer, from the Scientific Committee in Stortinget, but for the future I would like to stress the need for just transparency about this in order to counteract confusing newspaper articles and other more or less informative, scattered figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2380	Since everyone, both one and the other, stresses that they're defense friends, I can do it too, but the question is what kind of defense is a friend of. There may be a debate about how to defend yourself. Now we have a red-green government, which is leading a policy to which SV in some areas is critical, but in any case we are in favour of what is happening. I want to congratulate Councillor Barth Eide on the job. He has an experience background that makes it possible to hope that there will be a good result here. I even think of the debates back in the 1990s, with Barth Eide as a knowledgeable and important strategist. It'll be exciting. But I'm going to be challenging too. Because with Lundtägen's very good case-speaker remark, to which a co-conspirator's deliberations have joined, and his contributions with relatively harsh criticism, there are quite significant challenges in line for the Council of State when it comes to starting a clean-up work. Now I haven't been on the Stortinget for as long as Per-Kristian Foss and Marit Nybakk – that's what I want – but I've been here for 14 1⁄2 years. I don't know how many dozen defence ministers have come up here, on the pulpit, and told you that now it's over, now it's going to be cleaned up, now the economy is in place, and now it's going to be settled. It's never been like that, and that's the problem. As the councillors and probably others think, we had more episodes. We had, among other things: an episode in which we built coastal forts to a few billion dollars, which everyone knew we shouldn't use. We were going to put them down afterwards, but we built them out, because that was the plan. So we had a case where we were going to fix a little bit on our F-16 planes, where one didn't know about price lists, etc. There was no offer, there was only a nearest under-table deal of 2.4 billion. kr. So we had an accounting system called Golf. It's $1 billion. kr, and there was no great success either. Then we had frigate investments, which SV voted against, and it was an investment of – it was said – 12.7 billion. kr, but which is now approaching 25 billion. kr. So my experience after 14 1⁄2 years in Stortinget is the same as that of the National Audit Office, which points out that it has to be cleaned up here. The defence ministers come up to the pulpit and say that now this is going to happen, now we have the instruments, and now we have the spade we're going to use. But then the Riksrevision shows once again that the spade has not been used. There's a challenge to the Council of State; to get the spade in use, so that something happens. I thought that one of the things that is frustrating when you're a politician is that when you write such a comment as the plural has made today, which is very clear on what needs to be done, next year, the Riksrevision will come up with a corresponding reference once again, which I've experienced in the years I've been here on the Storting, with consideration for the Minister of Defense. It takes away a little bit from Parliament when we demand that it be cleaned up, and that does not happen. Here, the Council of State has a real challenge when it comes to fulfilling this. Let me also finally grasp what, among other things. The representative Per-Kristian Foss took up what's now happening to the fighter aircraft investments, and that's been going on a lot in the media already. Someone says it's the Evening Post that's on the wrong track, I've registered. Others, who were digging in other countries, say that there are some points and that there are some ambiguities. The Council of State itself confirms the vagueness of the speech earlier in the debate. Where will the price go in relation to the number being produced? There are still uncertainties associated with this fighter plane – which is the best, but also the cheapest – that we now do not know what costs. So here are some challenges in which I think a little bit should go to work, not only when it's open, but actually look at Denmark, for example, which has done its own pre-revision and looked at another solution. That's how a critical person can go through his actions, with a background in the story that I've just told you, about how the Ministry of Defence, among other things. has acted in relation to investment, which has led to large overruns. I don't think the red-green government is going to get a giant deal – that is, if the largest land investment is not going to be a huge scandal, for which the red-green government has gone in, with Councillor Barth Eide at the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2399	It has been said very wisely here today, and I want to back up on the conclusions and take to myself the advice given by all those who have had contributions. As I already said in the previous round of the defence budget, I am in no way satisfied with the shortcomings identified by the Riksrevision in this investigation. The requirements we set in the defence sector are also high in this area, i.e. internal control. These include: The representative Foss said, managing the defence sector very much. They must be used well. It is a particular responsibility that money in this field – which is the state's sharpest means of power, but where large sums are decided by relatively few people – is under good control. I'm taking what's pointed out here, in the utmost seriousness. Having said this, I am also pleased that the investigation shows that the Ministry of Defence and Defence have succeeded in establishing a clear formal framework to ensure adequate internal control and prevention of maladministration. I am pleased to note that the Committee also shares this view. I am also pleased that the National Audit Office concludes that both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff have a close and active management and follow-up to ensure the proper management of the resources in the business. There is therefore a system of internal control, internal audit and safer risk management throughout the defence sector. It is important that significant improvements have been made in the defence management procedures over recent years. Examples of this are the economics, the accounts and the payroll processes. This has also been agreed by the National Audit Office several times. For example: I would like to say to the representatives of Langeland and Nybakk that it is absolutely right that we have often had references in the defence sector, for a long time and under changing governments, for poor financial management. This is not the same point of order all the time. In the past, we had situations where the budget was not approved, which was probably the last time in 2004. We've been pointed out for lack of budget discipline and poor forecasts, we're no longer getting that. There were significant wage-paying challenges, where it was not certain that the right person was getting the right pay, but the wrong person was getting the wrong pay or someone else's pay. There were major challenges, even relatively recently, with invoice flows – that is, the defence’s ability to pay for their own purchases. In these areas, there have been significant improvements, as the Riksrevision says. At the same time, we recognise, as the Committee also points out, that defence continues to face significant challenges in the implementation of internal control in practice, especially at local level. These are aspects that have also been identified by the Ministry’s and Defence’s own audit resources, and a number of measures have already been taken. I believe that the defence's material management and operating acquisitions are the main remaining challenges of sound management and internal control, and will put great emphasis on this work. I am not satisfied that a central and complete material account has not been completed in the Joint Integrated Management System of Defence. It has been shown that this is a demanding and very extensive work. In order to ensure close follow-up, this has been given great attention in the management dialogue with the Defence. I am concerned that the procurement legislation should be complied with. Compliance with this legislation is essential for the prevention of maladministration. As the Committee points out, poor enforcement of legislation increases the possibility of maladministration. This is serious. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Riksrevision review has not revealed cases of maladministration. The defence has made significant efforts in 2010 and 2011 to strengthen the internal control of the defence. The defence manager’s focus on sound management and internal control has been, and is, essential to ensure priority and management anchoring for this important work at all levels of the organisation. Ensuring good internal control at all levels is a managerial responsibility. We now see the results of active management involvement in defence departments, for example in the proper use of the acquisition process in the Defence Integrated Management System. Management involvement, attitudes and competences are crucial factors for success. I trust that the Chief of Defense's follow-up to the findings of the National Audit Office will produce results, but will also follow this closely from my team. I take the Riksrevision report and the Committee's comments very seriously and will follow up with a renewed focus on measures to ensure the rapid improvement of the internal control of the defence, so that the defence can gradually get better results in the Riksrevision reviews. It is a responsibility I have, and I fully agree with what has been said. So I want to say specifically about the representative Foss' points about fighter aircraft acquisition that I basically agree with that. It is basically so that as Minister of Defense, I will present all the information we have, at the right time, so that the Storting knows what you're dealing with, and what you decide. But I also agree with the point that here it is said a lot strange, and not all of it is always random. The more important is that we have a dialogue where what is right comes out clearly, so that what is not as right does not get as much attention as it sometimes succeeds in getting. It is a very large acquisition, and it is a particularly great responsibility both for government and for big business to manage it properly. But this also applies, of course, to the ongoing operation of the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2434	Many good articles have been made on this matter. The posts of the Council of State were somewhat predictable, but I want to challenge the Council of State in two areas: our committee has had some varying successes with unanimous comments. We still hear that the Council of States will take it very seriously and take it with it, but in this position there are two very specific points of action to which a unanimous committee has joined. One is: ‘The Committee assumes that the management system SAP will be followed for the next three years.’ And the second thing is: ‘The Committee now assumes that material accounts will be in order as of 1 January 2012.’» These are unanimous assumptions, and I would just like to have the Minister of Defence's assurance that it will be implemented, in line with the Committee's wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2449	We'll do that to the best of our ability. We want to focus very much on both the specific points.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2454	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2458	I would like to thank the Council of State for its attitude – a humble and healthy attitude – and for the clarification by the Council of State that much was said wisely, and that he takes it very seriously. Then I expect that it was a delay when the Council of State said that in 2004 the budget was not approved. It was maritime accounts that were not approved by the National Audit Office. The budget is permanently approved by us. Just a brief comment: the Committee assumes that the material accounts will be in order as of 1 January 2012, said the rapporteur, and I said that there is no more than one year and a few more days. It is also wrong; on 1 January 2012 there are only a few more days. I then expect the Minister of Defense to move forward quickly and give the necessary and clear information about the inventory of goods to the material accounts, so that the Departments of Defence will get it in place, if not already done. I would like to thank you for a clear speech in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2485	The Treholt case is the most mentioned spy case in Norwegian post-war history. It has returned to the public spotlight in many rounds, with many different angles. The last round in the case of the spy convicted Arne Treholt came in connection with the launch of the book Forgery in September 2010. There were claims in the book that evidence against Treholt was falsified, and the subsequent media debate also focused on the police surveillance service and the methodology used during the investigation of the case. There is reason to make it clear that studies by the EOS Committee have been limited to just dealing with the methodology used by POT during the Treholt investigation. Neither the EOS Committee nor the Committee has dealt with the other parts of the matter. In short, this means that the conclusions supported by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will have no bearing on the judgment against Treholt or on some aspects of the Treholt case. The starting point of the rule of law is that the State is bound and limited by legal rules. The fundamental premise of a rule of law is the principle of legality. It says that the executive can never intervene against or judge the citizens of the country without having the authority to do so in the applicable legal order. In some cases, the principle of legality may be waived in emergency cases, but strict conditions are laid down for such considerations to permit such interference with citizens. I think it is important to underline this initially, because the methodology aimed at Treholt was of a very intrusive nature: it was conducted telephone interception, secret house searches, where, among other things. The Treholt key was copied, space listening, and video surveillance. In addition, there is, of course, also the use of screening and other more common police methods, on which there is no basis for further consideration. It appears clear that, after the EOS Committee has carried out its studies, it has been difficult to find evidence of the monitoring used during the Treholt investigation. No audio or video recordings have been found, while other parts of the investigation are subject to a high degree of notoriety, such as: relationships related to telephone interception. The Committee considers that it appears to be particularly important that so large a part of the investigation material appears to have disappeared or been maculated. The EOS Committee has obtained a legal opinion from Professor Husbø on the basis of the different types of methods used in the Treholt investigation. The statement is attached to the EOS committee's message to Stortinget, and I will therefore not go deep into it in this post. But I still find reason to point out that space listening was punishable at this point in time. However, there was no corresponding legal ban on video surveillance, but it is difficult to see that video surveillance could be considered less invasive than space listening. Therefore, the Committee shares the view of Mr Husbø that it is clear that this type of monitoring needs to be based on the principle of legality. The Committee also agrees with Mr Husbø – and thus also with the EOS Committee – that, even in the use of emergency legal considerations, this specific monitoring cannot be allowed. The Committee took note of the close contact between the Ministry of Justice and the POT during the investigation. The Ministry was aware that a separate apartment was purchased for the purpose of monitoring Treholt, and technical equipment was used during the monitoring. No part of the documentation shows that there has been any discussion related to the methodology used in the POT-Justice Ministry contact. It seems surprising that the basis for this type of non-traditional investigation does not seem to have been discussed. It's clear that the method used not only hit Treholt, but equally his wife and child. The use of such methods is currently regulated in a completely different way from the mid-1980s, and major changes have also been made in the control of the so-called EOS services. Following the handling by the Storting of the Lund Commission report, which revealed extensive illegitimate monitoring of Norwegian citizens, changes were made to the law and control systems. The legislator has filled out statutory spaces and has undertaken an important control task through the EOS Committee. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee is pleased that the EOS Committee carried out the examination of this part of the Treholt case, and that the Committee clarifies what I have done in the past, namely that the findings that have been made will have no effect on the criminal law section of the case in any other case or on the judgment against Treholt. There are enough people who, over time, would want the Treholt case to have its final conclusion. I believe that with the final decision of the Resumption Commission and the study of the EOS Committee, which ends with this deliberation, we see good contribution to the final sentence being set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2515	I would first like to say that I think it is very good that the Stortinge today will deal with a unanimous position in this matter. There is no disagreement between any of the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the various realities of the matter, as the rapporteur has now explained. However, I would also like to say very clearly that I think it is very good that the EOS Committee has done this job. That is what the rapporteur said. I underline it. It shows that the EOS Committee is an important body, which operates independently, and can address the issues on which it is relevant that the Storting should be reported. I also say this on the basis of the fact that this is a matter which is quite far back in time, in and of itself, but which has its principal aspects, and which it is necessary to go into. I'm going to say something that's not special in the setting, but that I'm going to express here from this pulpit, and that's that it's amazing, at least in retrospect, that the Lund Commission didn't include this in its report to the Stortinget, when it's later said that they had knowledge that has now emerged. I think that's amazing, and I think it's necessary that it be marked from here, seen in the light of history. I do not think it was satisfactory that the Lund Commission did not tell the public and the Storting about this – as they did at the time. As has been said, it was the investigations that have revealed that Treholt's apartment was subject to both telephone control, space listening, camera surveillance and secret searches, where – as the case-rapporteur said – the house key was also copied. I would also say, even though the case rapporteur now said it on behalf of all of us, that I think it is very strange that documentation related to all of this is not to be found. It's a black spot – or a white spot, whatever you want to call it – that stays there, pointing in the direction, of course, of POT's work that time. And you ask the question, why isn't this documented around the world, when so much else is documented? The rapporteur said this in a good way, but I would also like to stress this very clearly from my point of view. The next thing I want to say is that it is written in the vote – and a unanimous committee agrees with the assessment – that illegal things were done. We have had a discussion on this in the committee, and it is therefore a unanimous committee, including here, which clearly points out that it is illegal to do the things that were done – and also part of the methods that were used. It can't be characterised in any other way. I heard in the public conversation outside this hall that someone said: Yes, but it was necessary to do the investigation. If that’s what it is to say – and that’s what I think is absolutely important in this whole case – here we make a proper marking. We agree with the EOS Committee's assessment that it was illegal. It's kind of the most important thing about this report, with the treatment, and with the treatment we have here now. We clearly state that although it is a long time back, Stortinget believes that this was illegal, and that this should not have been done either, because illegal methods by the police cannot be accepted by the Stortinget. It is absolutely necessary to make this selection as clear as it is in this setting. Then new laws have come in retrospect, as was also said by the case-rapporteur. That is, of course, good and correct, and I have no reason to believe that the current service is operating illegally. But it was done that time, and it is necessary to mark very clearly – and it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2532	The case concerns the EOS Committee's study of POT's methodology in the Treholt case. The Committee points out that the purpose of the control of the EOS Committee is to identify and prevent any wrongs being committed against any, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary in the circumstances and that the services respect human rights. The Committee agrees with the selection that in this case it has been important to seek out the facts in the light of the claims and the criticisms that have been made. The purpose of the study was to identify the methodology used by POT prior to the attack on Treholt in January 1984. The study has revealed that Treholt's apartment was subject to, among others: Space silencing. The Committee says that there appears to be something special that such a large part of the investigation material in such a large and inconspicuous case has disappeared or maculated. It can only indicate that this was obviously culture at the time. The Committee has noted that in the course of the investigation there was close contact between the Ministry of Justice and the POT on the investigation of Treholt, and it is noted that the EOS Committee does not find any evidence to establish whether the Ministers of Justice were aware of the content of the activities. The Committee is in agreement with the EOS Committee on the absence of a basis for space interception during the period of the Treholt investigation. It was punishable to make space listening under Section 145a of the Criminal Code. I am therefore very pleased, as the previous speaker, that this is said clearly that it is our opinion that POT acted unlawfully. In particular, I would like to commend the former Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, who clarified and elaborated so strongly – and that was his main point – that this was illegal. I also have to add on my own account that, as the vote shows, there is little reason to believe that political leadership in the Ministry of Justice was not involved in the illegal business, as we know the culture, based on what is described here. It is reassuring and strong that an overall committee, with the Ministry of Justice parties – to put it that way – the Labour Party and the Right, says this so clearly. As the central party representative in the spirit of former Prime Minister Per Borten, this is very pleasing, and it shows that democratic progress has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2553	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good account of what the matter is about. The Treholt case, the most mentioned post-war spy case, has been, and may still be, a matter of great public interest. The allegations and criticisms that have emerged, including: Thus, in the media, on POT's methodology, the EOS Committee on its own initiative has chosen to conduct its own studies. Although such studies as have been carried out here are a little out of the control objectives of the sample, the Audit and Constitutional Committee of the EOS Committee supports the assessment of the importance of seeking to find out the facts, precisely because of the claims and criticisms made in the media. Studies have revealed that Treholt’s apartment was under surveillance in more than one way – telephone interception, video surveillance, searches and space listening were methods used. It's especially the EOS Committee's room scouting ready that there was no room for it. According to Section 145a of the Penal Code, such space listening was a criminal offence. But the EOS committee nevertheless believes that the video surveillance required a legal basis, and video surveillance in private rooms is perhaps even more intrusive than space listening. We have to remember that this also went against an innocent third party, namely Treholt’s family – wife and children. The EOS Committee's assessments of emergency law, where they relate to Professor Husbø's emergency assessments, also show that emergency law requirements can be said to be met for three out of four conditions, but that the requirement for professionalism is not met. The EOS Committee and Professor Husbø concluded that POT acted illegally. I'm also very happy that Martin Kolberg in his post places so much emphasis on this, and that of course this is also the Committee's view. Methodology was a major intervention in terms of privacy, not least in terms of – as I said – the innocent third party. Although today's PST is subject to a completely different legal framework than that POT was 30 years ago, there is also a great reason today to remind each other of the importance of emphasising privacy, privacy, against society's need for protection, among other things. against criminal acts committed by Treholt. That being said, it is reassuring to know that in the case of PST, the sample regularly reviews all methodology, both in prevention cases and in investigation cases. It shows that democratic control of the EOS services has a completely different dimension than 30 years ago. The Christian People's Party is pleased and positive that the EOS Committee has carried out this inquiry on its own initiative and sent the conclusion as a special message to the Stortinget. Like all the other parties in the Committee, we will also encourage the EOS Committee to choose a similar procedure if systematic challenges or serious single events are identified that the Storting should deal with as its own case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2577	Only for SV to be clear on this issue as well: we are also very pleased that a Joint Committee is fully aware that this was illegal use of methods by the monitoring police. If you look at this in a little historical perspective, it doesn't surprise me that it was such a method use as late as this, when you look at the history of surveillance police during the cold war and the methodology that was used then. Among other things, I had: a trade union spam to uncle who was monitored illegally for more than 30 years by the police. It clears me off the road when we got the Lund Commission. Now we've got an EOS selection that comes with this, so hopefully there won't be any illegalities left. But we had recent embassy cases, which were not very good advertising for PST. I say the same thing as all the speakers now have in mind, and as Kolberg also pointed out, this was an illegal act. I call on the new Minister of Justice to follow up on the PST in a good way, so that we get a monitoring police force in accordance with the laws and guidelines we have in Norway, while at the same time making sure that the EOS Selection gets the resources they need to follow up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2586	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2602	Civil defence shall be a State reinforcement resource for the emergency budgets and shall also have a number of important tasks in the event of war. In St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008, the government presented a number of assessments of how the civil defence of the future should look like in order to meet the need for a modern civil defence that was adapted to the challenges of the future, in order to ensure that the agency would be a relevant strengthening resource in the event of major and complex events. The majority of the population joined the government's plans. The Communication set out to implement several measures to streamline and optimise the civil defence operations organisation. In addition, the Authority was informed of the investment needs of the Civil Protection Agency, which amounted to 162 million. 2007-kronor over two years. DSB – the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness – is the professional head of civil defence. Their annual report for 2010 sets out the following: ‘If no additional budgetary resources are allocated, it will be necessary to do something about the district structure and civil defence staff. This will result in the device and concept of the Civil Defense presented to Stortinget through St.meld. 22, cannot be realised.’» It belongs to the units of rare people that a public agency so clearly states that they are unable to meet the Storting's assumptions. In view of this and a number of media redundancies in which different civil defence districts presented old equipment and worn-out equipment and indicated that they were unable to carry out the tasks they have as support for emergency budgets, the Control and Constitutional Committee started its initial investigations. It concluded that the Committee opened proceedings and held open hearings, where four district managers, the DSB Director and the Minister of Justice met. The Committee also received written input into the work of the Police Directorate and two trade unions. The reality description from the district managers was quite dramatic and well built up under the DSB’s annual report. DSB Director Jon Lea confirmed during the hearing that the assumption in St.meld. No 22 cannot be met if no additional funds are provided in line with the notification. The majority of the Committee considers that the actual situation in Civil Protection shows that the Stortinge took into account when it supported the changes that the government would make in order to strengthen the civil defence capability of being a state reinforcement resource in case of long-term and complex events, so far as is not met. In the fall, the government promoted a proposal for an additional 30 million civil defence allocation. kr. The funds shall be made available for investment in the clothing of officials and other personnel. The Committee agrees that there is a step in the right direction, but that there are still 97 million missing. 2007-krona before the Stockholm Stock Exchange assumptions are met on the investment side. The Committee takes the view that the government explains the civil defence situation, including expected investment promotion, in the revised national budget. I ask the Council of State to notice this. The hearing made it clear that the Minister of Justice had a slightly different view of the civil defence situation than the heads of districts, trade unions and the head of DSB. He rejected, among other things: the claim made by STAFO, as stated in its letter to the Committee: ‘The lack of follow-up by the Government of St.meld 22 does, however, put civil defence at risk of death on the ground.’ It is a challenge that a responsible State Council clearly has a different perception and reality from that of the responsible professional authority, district managers and employees. This is a challenge that needs to be taken seriously, especially in the light of the allegations made that the agency's concerns are alleged to have been taken lightly by the Ministry. The Committee stresses the importance of following up on the notifications made by employees’ organisations in the management dialogue between the Ministry, the Directorate and the Civil Defence. This is underlined by the Committee, because the NTL letter states that they perceive it as if the government had ‘pressed the alarm messages below the carpet, and chose not to address them, in order to resolve other higher priority tasks in the ministry’. The same signals come from STAFO. The Committee also notes the importance of increasing the exercise activity at the planned level and the real adaptability of capacity to the assumptions of the size. In this setting, there is a clear division between the opposition parties on one side and the government parties on the other. Although the committee is behind much of the position, and the expectations of the follow-up, the majority, which in our committee is composed of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are clearer in the criticism that parts of the Innst. S. No 85 for 2008-2009, which is the setting of St.meld. No 22 for 2007–08, not followed up. In particular, the lack of follow-up to the outlined investment needs of the establishment and the lack of follow-up of very serious concerns from parts of the establishment, as well as from the directorate. It also means that the majority of the Committee criticises the Council of State for not specifically informing the Grand Duchy of the fact that the assumptions of the Grand Duchy had not been followed up and that the relationship between the assumptions of the Grand Duchy and the actual situation was not further informed. This is a criticism that the government parties do not share. Finally, I would like to say that the Control and Constitutional Committee has, in its treatment, helped to increase the focus on civil protection as a very important part of our overall preparedness. I noticed that the government proposed 30 million. kr for investment in civil protection clothing after the opening of proceedings. That was good, and I allow myself with a little glimpse in my eye to claim that the committee's work on the matter contributed to the 30 million. kr came on the table. However, there is still a lot of work to be done, and there is still a lot of funding. It's important that these relationships come into place, also because civil defence is made up of people who are very far reaching to carry out their mission to the best of society. It's an effort that needs to be rewarded, by showing that the big community appreciates them and facilitates civil protection in serious crisis situations. I hope that this matter and the future follow-up to the Committee's comments will contribute to that focus being sustained, and that as the country's leading popular assembly, we will show that we are taking it seriously. It's a cheap insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2647	As the representative Anundsen made clear, there is some consensus, but also some clear disagreement between the opposition and the government fraction in this case. Me and Stortinget now heard Anundsen's critical contributions, and I, for my part, would like to make it very clear that I both know and believe that I have been documented through the work we did in the committee, that the government has been absolutely concerned that we should have a good and effective civil defence. It therefore also made its own announcement, which was the starting point for the civil defence organization we have today, and we did it, among other things. to meet the need to modernise and adapt civil protection to current and future challenges. It was and is important to ensure that this station could be relevant as an ‘enhancing resource in the event of major and complex events’, as it is called. In this communication, as it shows, the government called for a pooling of educational activities in civil defence and a reduction of the operational strength from 10,000 to 8,000 civil servants, as well as a number of other conversion measures. This was intended to release the resources for other purposes, including: increased exercise activity, in order to obtain a sound level of ongoing investment in necessary new equipment. The size of the store was also largely linked to the government's conversion proposal, and the government has since followed up this work. This has also produced significant results. It is therefore an overall control committee that says that although civil defence continues to have challenges related to equipment and exercise activities, a number of important measures to strengthen and further develop civil defence are followed up by the government following the decision of the Storting in recent years. This has been done through legal anchoring in the Civil Protection Act, and it has been done by initiating the notified conversions in terms of the co-location and reconstruction of schools and facilities, the establishment of new central storage and investment in bedding and equipment. All of this is in line with the Storing's assumptions and decisions. Furthermore, there is also agreement that the measures taken are linked to the structure and conversion by the sale of four out of five civil defence camps. The operational force shall be reduced from 10000 to 8000 officials, while significantly reducing the reserve of war, from approximately 35000 to about 8000 personnel. This means a much more rational civil defence than before, and it allows for further efforts to strengthen the competence of civil defence and the content of training and exercises for the teams. This too is important and in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. In addition to ensuring that the legal basis for civil defence is updated, up-to-date legislation ensures an important strengthening of overall preparedness by providing municipal emergency response obligations, increasing focus on risk and vulnerability analyses and contingency plans. The Committee, as the representative Anundsen also said, had a good and informative hearing on the subject-matter of the case, including: was precisely the task structure and equipment situation of the Civil Protection Agency. It is thus reassuring and important to note, as the Committee does, that both civil protection and DSB assume that the parts of the conversion work they have carried out have been done in a good and satisfactory manner. The entire organisational conversion of civil protection has been carried out in line with Stortingen's decision in this area as well. The hearing and the examination in the committee confirm what I am saying here. Then there is consensus in the committee that the projected investment backlog that was estimated at 162 million. kr over two years, reflects the need for a one-off investment. Additional investments in the form of continuous replacement of equipment, etc. shall be covered by the annual operating budgets of the Civil Protection Authority. The rapporteur said, and the committee stresses that, of course, it is recorded that the government has proposed 30 million. kr in a separate grant to the Civil Protection Agency now. It is important to be able to follow up the rate of allocation that is also a prerequisite for the proper implementation of the entire reorganisation of civil protection. A statement has been requested in the revised budget on this point, so that the Storting can clearly know what the government thinks about that side of the case as well. What is at the heart of the matter in many ways is, has the government followed up the decision of the Great Government on this point in a correct and satisfactory way? The Working Party, SV and the Center Party believe that the answer to that question is yes. We believe that it is not right, as the opposition majority in the committee indicates, and as Anundsen said directly in his statement, that the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting. We believe that this is wrong. We believe that the hearing, the committee reading and the explanations we have otherwise received demonstrate that there is no basis for such a clear criticism as Mrs Anundsen expressed in her statement, which appears in the vote. The organisation has been completed; we all agree on that. That's how the Storting decided. In fact, there are still some remaining appropriations, but that is often the case, and this has been followed up by the decisions taken in connection with the current state budgets. When the matter was dealt with the previous time, i.e. when you dealt with St.meld. No 22 in 2008, the Stortinget said that it was foreseen that these issues would be addressed through current budgetary procedures. The government has done the same. The party to the progress is solely concerned with a comment on whether questions can be asked about whether the Council of State has fulfilled its information obligation. I believe that there is no basis for such a comment, and I clearly disagree with that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2673	Martin Kolberg has done well for the government fraction his view on this matter. I just want to clarify a couple more things and also challenge the council at one point. It is such that hearings very often lead to new knowledge, and I believe that we are many who thought it was a very good hearing, where we got specific information about how their civil defence added, among other things. felt their work situation according to the objectives of government and growth. Should this have resulted in us being able to get some more money for the Civil Protection Agency, it is positive. Anyway, we were able to add another $30 million. kr. So we will come back to the follow-up to the financial commitments that remain, in the revised budget and in the forthcoming budget. So this is going to be followed up. What I would like to comment on from the Council of State is the one comment that the Committee is gathering, namely that a complaint is that there is no good governance dialogue between the Department, the Civil Defense and their addendum. It is directly in a statement that messages are pushed under the carpet. I would like the council to say something about whether she's taken out the carpet, or whether she's going to stop pushing things under the carpet, or how you're going to take hold of that criticism in relation to her government's work on this important field of civil defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2686	Civil defence is an important part of preparedness. It is a strengthening resource to assist the emergency and rescue situations in the event of major accidents and incidents, as well as to provide support for the needs of the population in the event of war. In December three years ago, the Stortinget discussed a major message on social security, where civil protection was also a topic. There was then a broad consensus in the Storting about the need to modernise and adapt civil defence to today's and future needs. Among other things, stressed the need to replace old equipment and to acquire materially adapted to current and future challenges. My party colleague Jan Sahl said among other things: the time in the debate on what was needed for civil defence to be able to discharge its social responsibility: ‘In order for civil defence to be able to fulfil this social responsibility, civil protection needs to be upgraded and modernised — and urgently. In recent years, civil defence has not had the money to replace old and worn out material, to learn enough with new crews and to train the entire main effort force. Most of the materials of the Civil Defense Disaster Response Departments are 40 years old. The crew uniforms are well used for 30 years. Then it goes without saying that they are reasonably worn and provide little protection. There is little protective and safety equipment available. Civil defence lacks vehicles, bilge pumps, power units and sanitary equipment. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this situation needs to change. New material must be in place. The budget for the exercise must be increased. Civil defence needs modernisation now.» The message and Storting's treatment gave the Civil Defense reason to look brighter in the future. The background to the Committee's consideration of this matter now is, as the Committee's chairman has also pointed out, the communication of concerns coming from different civil defence districts. In addition, in the 2010 annual report, the DSB, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, announced that they were unable to implement the Storting's assumptions – from the aforementioned reporting process – with today's allocation needs. One of the trade unions - STAFO - expresses in a letter to the Committee that the government's failure to follow up means that civil defence risks rotting. In the open hearing of the Monitoring Committee on the matter, four of the Heads of State or Government took part in the Civil Defense Service. Their opinions made it clear how, over several years, the resources that have been available to you have not been particularly consistent with the development of vulnerability in society. So it's going to be problematic to deal with big and complex events. The optimism that came after the 2008 Storing Communication has now clearly diminished, since the appropriations have not arrived, as one would expect. It does something about the motivation in the building and in the crews, where not everyone has even gotten new uniforms yet. The Committee’s hearing clearly shows that the big-time notification and the treatment of the Stortingen has not been properly followed up by the government. This is serious. It is necessary to enable civil protection to perform the tasks provided for by the Storting. The 2012 budget includes appropriations to improve the situation, but the corresponding sums are also needed in the future to make the necessary investments. The investment backlog was estimated at 162 million. kr over two years in the Storing Message. Of this, 97 million still remain. kr. An overall committee takes the view that the government explains the situation of civil defence – including expected investment progress – in the revised national budget. Civil defence needs predictable framework conditions. It is therefore important to clarify quickly whether the need for investment is being met or whether civil protection needs to base its operations on the equipment they currently have available. I assume that the government will inform Stortinget thoroughly about the consequences it will have in that case. Civil defence is an important body. Anxiety messages from both the directorate and district managers and civil servants' organisations are something that the department has to take seriously. The government also has an obligation to provide the Storting with the necessary information on how the Storing assumption is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2717	Experience has shown that there is a need for a State reinforcement resource to assist in rescue operations and other disaster response. We've had a lot of big events in the last few years that show this. In particular, it was demonstrated by the attack on the government quarter and Utøya on 22 July of this year, and by the flood of the East in June and August. The civil defense is a sought-after and important actor when major events occur, and gets good feedback for its efforts. Civil defence is 75 years old and has undergone a number of transformations and reorganisations since the beginning of the midwar period. While civil defense tasks were formerly rooted in war, today’s main task is at peace. Today, the main task of civil defence is to strengthen the efforts of a number of agencies responsible for the area of rescue and rescue. This conversion naturally requires a need for changes and modernisation in the building. On this basis, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness — DSB — developed a civil defence study that reviewed the need for change and modernisation in civil protection. The study also identified a need to replace and upgrade civil defence equipment, including deployment clothing, which has been highlighted as a first priority by civil protection. The Minister of Justice put civil defence on the political agenda by launching four main actions: mention of the Civil Defense in St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008, cf. Inner. S. No 85 for 2008-2009 Legal anchoring of Civil Protection Restructuring of Civil Protection Acquisition of Civil Protection Equipment I am pleased that the Committee, although there are challenges related to equipment and exercise capacity, sees a number of measures presented by the government in St.meld. No 22, nearly completed. This applies, inter alia, to: the legal anchoring of civil protection in the Civil Protection Act. Furthermore, the main actions related to the restructuring of civil protection are completed in the near future. I mention that the civil defence expertise was co-located at Starum from 1 August this year, which is expected to increase the number of educated people annually, from approx. 680 persons on duty each year to 750 persons on duty from next year. A number of civil protection facilities that are no longer in need of emergency have been disposed of, including four out of five civil defence camps sold. With the civil defence central warehouse, we have received a central logistics function in the civil defence. The operational strength of civil defence has been reduced from 10,000 to 8,000, and the reserve of war has been reduced from approximately 35,000 to 8 000. The new structure is not completely completed, but there are possibilities to call in crews that are still in the old structure of the reels. This means that I have 8 000 people on duty, even though there is still some work to be done in connection with the new structure. The Committee has pointed out that it is important that the exercise activity reaches the planned level as soon as possible. I am concerned that it will not take too long to get this activity up to a proper level. The DSB has stated that the civil defence exercise activity will be gradually improved, with a strengthening of the exercise activity in 2012 and a further strengthening in 2013. The ambition is that all staff in the operational departments should be trained by 2014, as provided for in St.meld. No 22nd@item: In the context of this Communication, it was mentioned that an overall investment need related to the replacement and acquisition of new civil defence equipment of 162 million was identified. kr, where new input clothing is highlighted as first priority. As the Committee has pointed out, some of these investments remain. That's a total of 50 million. for the purpose, by means of appropriations entered in the State budget. This is including 30 million. kr in 2011, cf. Prp. 154 S for 2010–2011 on additional appropriations in the State budget for the current year. In addition, approximately 15 million have been allocated. kr for the purpose through the use of net income generated by the sale of civil protection properties. In addition, through re-priorities within the ordinary framework, DSB has allocated 17.5 million. kr for the purpose. This means that a total of 82.5 million has been allocated. NOK at the Civil Defense Office. During 2011, or at the beginning of 2012, half of the crew will be refurbished. The need for boots and helmets is fully covered in the current year. By 2012, it will be invested in the deployment of around 7 500 teams. At the same time, the ambition is that the whole force should be set up by 2012. I understand the civil defence concerns about the equipment situation. I'm aware that the effort for many crews can often be very demanding, with old uniforms, not least in the heavy rains under the floods we've had in recent years. I take the feedback from the civil defense seriously. There can be no doubt about that. To the question from the representative of Langeland, I can inform you that there is a governance dialogue in place that also deals with the handling of concerns messages. In addition, there is a system of a committee of civil protection officers. This sample has annual contact meetings with the Ministry of Justice, where civil defence can raise current issues and discuss them with political direction. In addition, the Ministry of Justice also meets civil defence throughout the year at various conferences, seminars and not least at different events. I propose that the Stortinget be informed of the further progress in this matter in the context of the revised national budget, in line with the Committee's request. I am concerned that civil defence should be properly equipped and trained on the basis of the community mission. The government has also started work on a new public security and preparedness policy. The civil defence mission and concept will of course also be discussed in this Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2774	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Council of State now made it explicit, and quite unambiguously, clear that we are being briefed in relation to the revised national budget as well as in relation to the revised civil defence investment plan. This is a very important point for civil defence to have the foreseeable framework conditions that they need. I actually took the word just to clarify what has been a manifest misunderstanding in Mr. Kolberg's posts, where he claimed that the Progress Party was alone on a note where we questioned whether the information obligation or the information obligation had been fulfilled. That's not right. We are alone on a note where we write that it is ‘unlucky’ that this information has not been forwarded to Stortinget, but we have not questioned the information obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2781	Yes, it's about bringing with it the correct version of the committee settings. It was also the representative of Kolberg who made me take the floor. This is, of course, history – the Council of State has left, and it's been many years since this – so you could leave it. But it was the representative of Kolberg's attempt to give the Storting's opposition a manufactory in the information obligation that made me take the floor, and that's basically important. In fact, what is stated by the members of the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is that they believe that the Stortinget "should have received a more complete mention than that case is for civil defence". I then perceive that the representative of Kolberg thought that all the information given was complete enough. But then you read on in the setting, where you actually quote from the trade movement. I thought at least it would make the representative of Kolberg a little milder. We point out that the NTL Social Security and Preparedness Act states that: «by reading the descriptions of the Civil Protection Act of St. prop. 1 is few of the challenges facing civil protection that are evident». Those who were affected – and organised – by this, therefore believe that the description in Prop. 1 S was not good enough. I don't know if we can expect a settlement with the trade union movement from this pulpit, or whether the representative of Kolberg will choose other forums. But I think it's actually wise for governments to describe reality Norway in their documents to us. Then you better leave to the representatives of the government parties to make reality even more beautiful, if necessary. I have to say that I am very pleased with the conclusion of the Council of State, that she will follow the Committee's request to make a statement on the situation in Civil Protection on the first possible occasion – which has, of course, been revised for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2803	I have the ability to have so much humility that I accept the lessons, and in particular this touching part of it I think there is particular reason to pay attention to. I'm sure the representative Foss understands that in a good way. It is quite correct, as was said, especially by Anundsen, that the ‘information obligation’ was not the correct expression. I understand. Nevertheless, I related my comments to the comment on which the Progress Party stands alone, and not what Foss was now in. I believe, as the representative Foss said, that the government has informed the Storting in a good and proper way. It's not that you've deliberately tried to keep some of this away. This has been informed through the State budgets; it has been clearly stated there in various ways how this development has been followed. I therefore believe that there was no basis for the comment that the Progress Party had, and that was what I related to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2828	I only have a few comments as rapporteur of the case. The background for each year's Stortinget getting Meld. St. 4 from the Prime Minister's office, and thus the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at today's meeting, we find in the second paragraph of Section 12 of Stortingen's Rules of Procedure No. 9 b. It is assumed that the government will present an annual report on the follow-up of the Grand Duchy’s request and investigation decisions by the government — what the government has done or what they intend to do with the decisions. The Prime Minister’s Office has obtained opinions from the respective departments on the follow-up and treatment of decisions of the 2010–2011 Storingssesion. The Government stresses in the Communication that the Storting will always receive a clear feedback on the follow-up to the individual request decisions. It shall always be clear when a document from the Government to the Stortinget contains a follow-up and an answer to a decision taken by the Stortinget. The number of request decisions is now at a low level, seven in the previous session, and the number has also varied considerably from session to session, but with a marked peak in 2008-2009. No investigation decisions were taken in 2010–2011. However, it should be emphasised that the notification also sets out the request decisions of the 2009-2010 and 2008-2009 Storing Sessions, where seven and eight decisions remained. Five of these decisions will continue to be followed up by the Committee. Let me briefly draw up two of the request decisions included in the setting. One is a decision of 3 December 2010, in which the government is asked to consider initiating a review of the organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with a view to simplifying, streamlining and focusing work. This is an important initiative by Stortinget. It turns out from the government's answer that this is being followed up. Work has been started on the part of the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation to strengthen Nordic cooperation both in terms of efficiency and political priorities. Work will continue under the Norwegian Presidency in 2012 and the Stortinget will be kept continuously informed. The Committee awaits feedback on the results prior to the receipt of its decision. The second thing I would like to mention is a request decision from the 2009–2010 Stortinget to ask the government to review the experience with the government's quarantine rules and to present the matter appropriately. This is obviously a work that takes time. The Committee had a comment on the matter in its last year’s report on Notification. St. 4, which was the innermost. 167 S for 2010–2011. The Ministry of Renewal said in a letter dated 5 September this year, among other things. the establishment of a selection with a relevant legal and social science background. In addition, the political parties represented on the Stortinget shall be represented in the sample to be appointed to the Council of State before the New Year. I refer to the public debate that has been on the quarantine rules for politicians who have ended up in service, for example. State Council or State Secretary, transitions to business or to the information industry. The Committee awaits feedback before taking a decision. It is his/her decision of 9 December 2008 on interdisciplinary health work in municipalities. The Government Parties consider that the decision has been satisfactorily followed up. However, there is a view that the opposition does not share, and I believe that this will be justified by the statements made by the rapporteur. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 1612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2872	This kind of thing, about changes in the state budget for the year we've left behind, we experience every harvest. It is not often that such matters create the major debates, nor in the Justice Committee this year. However, there have been some concerns, and this has also been mentioned by the Committee – among others. the Committee is concerned that the new emergency network will not have the number of users it wanted. It may be due to many things, but it seems that many are now waiting to sign up as users of the emergency network, and that is in itself a concern. Here it's just to ask the government and the Council of State to follow this very closely, when enlargement also comes. In addition, a small concern has been expressed in relation to the large increase in specific criminal costs. It may, of course, have been in the cold water of 22 July, but it has not been dealt with in any concrete way. It is clear that more has happened in that field than what happened on 22 July. I expect that the other parties will explain their vision. However, the Progress Party has put forward its own proposal, because we are fundamentally concerned that we have a reduction in nearly 20 police districts. Despite the fact that it is right – as the government, the previous Minister of Justice and the current Minister of Justice point out – that there has been a relatively good increase in the police budgets, it is therefore not satisfactory in relation to the objective that we have all set ourselves of achieving the target of two officials per 1 000 inhabitants in 2020. I registered that the Minister of Justice had been misplaced in the Class struggle. But we still have an ability to look a little bit too much back. If you want to take the full picture of the situation in the police today, you can't just focus on the increased appropriations. It must also be seen in connection with the fact that the police have been given considerable additional tasks. We need to see it in the context of the huge population increase, and we need to see it in the context that more and more countries have free access to Norway – i.e. the borders are increasingly being built down – and that crime has become sharper and more intelligent, I would almost say. This means that the police, of course, also need to have increased resources in terms of finance, new methods and not least staff. That is why, as I said, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal that we should already grant the necessary funds. Now there is a little disagreement about how many police students stand without a job – I register it. It's very hard to agree on what's the right number. But what is absolutely certain is that not everyone who graduated from the Police College in 2010 has got a job, not everyone who has graduated from the Police College in 2011, has got a job – and I'm also quite sure that the budget that it is added to in 2012 does not guarantee all the police students who go out in 2012, jobs. That's why I don't think the proposals of the Progress Party are provocation; it's almost an outstretched hand for all the parties to be involved, so that we achieve the goal that we all agree on – that by 2020 we will have a certain coverage. There are already major challenges. I would also like to point out what is going on in criminal matters. Here I will do nothing but refer to the alternative state budget of the Progress Party in relation to the concern expressed in the criminal justice area. It's also kind of made itself visible through some kind of down action. We should take that over. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to provide a relatively late response to a reply that fell under the review of the 2012 budget by the Justice Committee. If I don't remember completely wrong – with a small reservation – it was the representative of Hagebakken who questioned the alternative budget of the Advance Party in relation to the fact that we cut so much in the area of asylum. It is then good to see that the matter we are dealing with now shows that the policy of the Progress Party is working. Here, the government actually saves 175 million. This is due to a slight decline in the influx of asylum seekers and a slight decrease in young single asylum seekers. It's a marginal decrease in relation to the inflow, but it's $175 million saved in the budget. Despite the decline, Norway is now at the top – however – in the number of asylum seekers as a percentage who come here, and in the number of asylum seekers as a percentage who get rejected, only Switzerland is a little ahead of us. Then I see from the explanations that come, that Norway largely accepts asylum seekers for whom it is difficult to reject. I don't think that's the only reason, just so I've been told. Then I will end with an example that not everything is as it should be, and I do that with a look-up in the Evening Post on Saturday, December 10. We've had a high focus on the fight against rape, especially assaults. The evening post on Saturday refers to an example where one has been raped – and now I have no prior position on the matter, because the case is appealed – and the asylum seeker who has raped is convicted in court. My point is that it will take almost two years before the case comes back to the law of the team. While this asylum seeker has been temporarily resident in Norway, he is applying for family reunification and is receiving family reunification ten days before the case is brought to court. It is clear that when you get such issues, it is difficult to have the right focus on combating crime and in particular rape. My appeal to the Council of State and Government is: if you really mean anything to fight crime, especially rape, you have to look at the whole circle. Here it is problematic that there is an asylum seeker who commits crime, it is problematic that the case goes so far in time, and it is problematic that a person accused of rape actually receives family reunification during the time he has a temporary residence permit in Norway. I would like to promote the proposal that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2898	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 1612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2908	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e2931	Before referring to the position of the Committee, the President shall draw attention to the following corrections which must be made to the draft decision of the Committee: Under I, the municipality of residence of member No. 4, Tormod Andreassen, be Tønsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e3738	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Morten Høglund, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Morten Høglund on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4-7, from Morten Højlund on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and publish a ‘blacklist’ of the assistance organisations which do not take the corruption issue seriously and which do not take appropriate action in case of suspicion of corruption in the aid exposure.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider various aspects of the establishment of a private sector investment fund in developing countries and to come back to the matter in the context of the review of the 2012 national budget.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of an African Trade Facility corresponding to a budget of approximately 100 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out external evaluations of all Norwegian peace and reconciliation initiatives over the past 30 years. Any costs and proceeds shall be recovered through re-prioritisation within the existing budgetary framework.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e3782	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of all projects and project partners supported by the EEA funds.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e3799	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘An acute and flexible mobilizable response capacity with rapid response capability and local presence in the larger cities shall be restored.’ Here the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e3818	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit a case on a ceiling on the proportion of the budget of the beneficiary organisations financed above cap. 160 which may come from the public.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e3835	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with Framework Area 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e5684	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e5710	Here it is the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e5723	We're going to add up to 8, I'm going to add up to X.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e7400	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e8905	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner440Police Directorate – Police and Len’s Seat:1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 441 item 1, increase by 119 475000 from NOK 9 482 431000 to NOK 9 601 906000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e9766	It's going to wrestle first over the cape. Item No 430 1. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e9781	The remainder of Part I and the whole of Part II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-13.ana.ud1052e9799	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
