ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e117	The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Eli Skoland, is now taking the seat. The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e125	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Olemic Thommess and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen children's rights and influence in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e130	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e133	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to set up a wide-ranging commission to prepare proposals for a better integration policy for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e138	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e141	On behalf of the big business representatives Ulf Leirstein, Gjermund Hagesetter, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to wind up the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e146	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the cases are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e162	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e178	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e187	This proposal from the Progress Party deals with the winding-up of the opening hours, including the abolition of the so-called Brustad-bua. Law of 24 February 1995 No. 12 on Holidays and Holiday Peace, or easier said and better known as the Holiday Peace Act, states that permanent outlets should as a general rule be kept closed on Sundays and other holy and solemn days. From this general rule there are a number of exceptions, including: for sales outlets selling flowers, plants and other gardening products, and outlets selling mainly kiosks or groceries and having a total sales surface not exceeding 100 m2, the so-called Brustad-bua. This note that I now referred to, which deals with today's practices and references to the law, is actually the only comment on which there is agreement in the family and cultural committee. I therefore want the individual parties to brief on their comments on the matter, as there is as much disagreement as there is. I assume that the fractions of the family and cultural committee themselves want to do that. Following the repeal of the opening time law in 2003, there have been no State restrictions on the opening time of working days. This change was absolutely necessary, and the changes that were made at the time have given us more flexible and local solutions. The right considers that the so-called Brustad-bua is not appropriate and has led to a number of adaptations that neither benefit the consumer nor the industry. The same applies to sales outlets that essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items. The Right Party and the Progressive Party wish to improve the adaptation of opening hours to the needs of users, and today’s derogation those parties believe that they can distort competition and are an unnecessary regulation of trade in goods. The right considers it important to safeguard the rights of workers, while at the same time liberalising the opening time limits. A revision of the law to open Sunday open shops will provide more flexible adaptations that will naturally vary with industry type, location, local conditions, etc. The Government parties do not support the proposals to amend the opening time law, but the Right assumes that the government will follow the developments in the cooling water of the change that has been made and that the employees of the commercial industry will be provided with their health, environment and safety needs within the general rules on working conditions under the Working Environment Act. The right considers that Section 5 of the Act on Holidays and Holiday Peace should be maintained. But the right also believes that the law needs to be amended to allow access to keep open on regular Sundays. Therefore, in this case, we propose that the government return to Stortinget and submit a case on the revision of the applicable law so that Sunday-open shops can be used. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e209	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e212	As the rapporteur has stated, this law has not been done so much from 2003 until now, in 2011. So today we're in 2011, and the world is a little bit different than it was in 2003. A lot has happened lately. In fact, we are now in the busiest of times in the case of Sunday open shops – or plant sites. In mailboxes and newspapers we are cleansed by advertising for all the new garden plants and spring plants from Plantation and various other garden centers. It is almost so I would like to ask for a handshake from those who do not go to the Plantation and trade on Easter Day, Easter Day, Tuesday or Tuesday, when these shops have opened. Then the question is, what is the difference between buying plants and garden products – it's kind of okay to do a holiday – and buying milk or bread, on which we have to have regulations? In addition, we see that there is a slippage in the range in these industries that is allowed to be open. How many have not been on the plantation and have seen everything from garden tools, barbecue equipment, vases, candles and napkins to dog food and rabbit feed – there is a great difference. So we know that other industries, for example. Jernia, they're not allowed to open, because they sell some kitchen equipment – unlike the plantation. This is perceived to be very discriminatory in some industries. It is not possible to keep an article in this room about this matter without mentioning the Brustad-bua. In practice, opening hours were lost in 2003, with the exception of public holidays and some days off. But then a small exception was created, and that was if the store was less than 100 square meters – then it was ok. I'm not going to mention the name, but there are a lot of representatives – probably small children's fathers also in the family committee – who often go to the ICA in the Bogstadwegen on a Sunday, because they may have forgotten to buy diapers or other things, and have to line up in a small shop of 100 square meters. We see that in retail chains all over the country, there is a store in the store. Is that what we want, that we make a difference, and that we make small shops in which there is a queue? I guess that's not what this was meant to be. The only thing we can do today is either go to the store, or we can go to Statoil or 7-Eleven, if there's things we've forgotten to buy one Sunday. But it's not like there's a pressure on people to act on a Sunday. That's something people must be allowed to decide for themselves. A lot has changed until today. People work differently, they work shifts and tours, and it's like people sometimes want to trade on a Sunday. Then there must be an opportunity. We politicians have to align themselves to it and show that we can change this. There is no pressure, but there is a success in a stressed everyday life that some shops have open. Now there's a lot of talk about Brustad-bua. Brustad-bua has become a concept of folklore, and Sylvia Brustad had to endure a lot of peppers for just this. I thought I would quote from one who actually works in such a store, because there are a lot of people who like to work on Sundays: «We have lots of gentle customers who shop here on Sundays. And satisfied customers inspire. Then it's fun to work, even when most others are free." It's a quote from Siv Monica Brustad. She works on Sundays and is the sister of Sylvia Brustad. But what's important, if we're going to open up several full range shops on Sundays, is that we have to be careful to protect employees' rights. But the world has moved forward, and it is important that we politicians now follow along in time. It must be up to each one when you want to trade. There's a demand for this. I have not yet seen that there has been a great pressure to be able to shop clothes at eleven o'clock, neither a weekday nor a holiday, but let it be possible, so that those who want can be allowed to shop at the time of the day they want it. With that, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e236	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e239	The Christian People's Party stands, as demonstrated by its position, together with the majority in this matter. We consider the regulation of opening hours and holiday peace as important issues of great importance to people's daily lives and the daily lives of Norwegian families. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘The Act on Holidays shall protect general peace on Sundays and public holidays by, inter alia, setting limits to commercial activity on those days. This is, as I see it, still an important consideration. Limits of commercial activity on Sundays and holidays contribute to the preservation of those days as different from normal working days.» The Christian People's Party shares the views of the Council of State on Sundays and public holidays as different from normal weekdays. We agree that a limit to commercial activity these days are appropriate. The Christian People's Party has commented in the vote on the petitioners' wish to 'approve the theme of opening times from a principle'. It is natural when you have liberalism and market faith as your basic starting point, that you will leave most of it to market mechanisms. However, the Christian People's Party believes that the assessment of everyday life to people, and the values that make people feel good together, are probably as important as the market to control social development. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that regulation of opening hours can be determined not only by supply and demand, but for the sake of workers' holiday peace. We need to find appropriate ways to regulate it, so that we prevent the slipping out of industries. The purpose of the holiday peace is to help people to have the opportunity to have the weekend off, make sure that one day a week is different from normal working days. The Christian People's Party's view is that it is important to protect one day of the week for commercial activity, so that the workers in the trade in goods are given the opportunity to take time off on Sundays. For many, this is an important part of the fight for a good family life. When the Bondevik II Government presented proposals to repeal the Law of 26 June 1998 No. 43 on opening hours for outlets, opening hours law, rules on opening hours for outlets on Sundays and other public holidays were incorporated into the Law of 24 February 1995 No. 12 on public holidays and holiday peace. The new Section 5 would help to better adapt the opening hours to the needs of users, while at the same time maintaining Sunday, as a different day with limited trading activities. The Christian People's Party believes that there is reason to recall what was the intention behind the exceptions in Section 5 – not least that there were outlets with limited sales of goods. Intensification of the provisions relating to product selection is necessary in order to avoid undermining current legislation as a result of slippage and unclear perception of the purpose of the law. The Christian People's Party is promoting proposals in line with that, and I am addressing the proposals of the Christian People's Party. As I say, this is a balance between different considerations. It is of great importance to people's everyday lives and family life. As politicians – as most in the room here are – we recognize what it means for family life when you have to tell the kids and others in the family that you have to work on weekends, when the kids finally get out of school. Now this is a far greater challenge for many in other occupational groups – not least in the health and care sector, where you have to work all week to keep the wheels going in key social institutions. I'm very surprised that the Progress Party is taking it so far that one chooses to run such a principle, as naive faith in the market as the only criterion for assessing such important provisions relating to what kind of society we're going to have, what kind of opportunities people should have to care for the family. It's a very clear example that here's liberalism, here's the blind belief in the market that's going to override everything else, even if it destroys the family's ability to be together, even if it destroys the family's ability to be well together and to be free on weekends. It's a very clear choice of value from the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority has landed on a different line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e270	The representative of Mr Øyvind Håbreek has mentioned what the proposal referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e273	We in the Left would like to present our views on the matter with a slightly different approach than the Right Party and the Advance Party have, and the Christian People's Party has. It's clear that when you're going to discuss opening hours in the shops, there's different considerations to balance, as was said by the Christian People's Party in the previous post. I don't think, like the Christian People's Party, that – for us who live just by little Brustad arches – it is primarily family fathers and family mothers who have been watching on Sunday. There are probably a lot of people who want to know about the income of student loans and other things that have the kind of guards. Our business looks very different around the country, and there are different considerations to consider. Therefore, the Left believes that when it comes to opening hours, it should be municipal responsibility. It should be the municipalities that made those adjustments. Clearly, there are different concerns around the country, there are different communities around the country, there are different needs around the country. We believe that local politicians are the best people to assess how opening hours should be in their shops. It could have adapted to special tourist attractions, special business structures or special social structures. It's clear that in a city like Oslo, with a lot of access to students who want Sunday jobs, this is maybe a smaller problem than it's a place with other types of family structures, with other access to people to do those jobs. There are many different considerations to consider, and we think that those considerations are best weighed locally. There have been some words in the proposal that have been distributed, so that it may look as if the Left believes that the government is changing laws. But the Left believes that it is the Storting that changes laws. So, ‘The government asks the government to promote a bill that removes State restrictions’, it should be stated in the first sentence. Then I have prepared this from the pulpit. I guess there may not be so many others who support it, even if I wish it were. Then the Left has made clear what we mean by the proposal: we want to regulate the holiday peace and the opening hours, but we want that regulation to be applied locally, so that we get the balances that the Christian People's Party is talking about, to our local democracy, which we think is well suited to making those adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e286	The representative of Ms Trine Skei Grande has addressed the proposal to which she referred, which is a corrected version of the proposal distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e289	There are several reasons why we still want to have limits to commercial activity on Sundays and holidays. I believe that Sunday should be a different day that differs from the other days of the week. Limits of commercial activity could contribute to this. The opening hours of the Holiday Peace Act provide protection for workers in the trade in goods from Sunday work. Since the restrictions on working days were lifted in 2003, opening hours on working days have been expanded in practice in many cases. I think many people will understand that in the light of the long opening hours in many shops on weekdays, workers need to have Sundays as a different day. Limits of commercial activity on Sundays and holidays could help prevent increasing pressure on shopkeepers to keep open on Sundays and holidays. The debate that has taken place in the past around the exemption rules of the Holiday Peace Act has shown great commitment to keeping one day a week protected by commercial activity. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Right propose that access be granted to keep open on regular Sundays. This would lead to a hollowing out of the provisions of the Holiday Peace Act which I believe many do not want. The opening times have a long history. Section 5 of the Holiday Peace Act, adopted in 2003, requires permanent outlets selling goods to consumers to remain closed on public holidays. On Christmas, Easter and Pentecost, they have to close at 4 p.m. 16:00. The exceptions to these rules are a direct continuation of previous legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: the exemption for points of sale which essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening products and the exemption for points of sale which essentially sell kiosk or groceries and which do not exceed 100 m2. The 1998 Opening Time Act introduced these exemptions in order to adapt to the practical needs and to address the difficult demarcation against the sale of kiosk products. The 1985 Opening Time Act had exceptions for, inter alia: kiosk sales and sales of flowers and plants. When opening times are put on the agenda again, this should be included as a backstop. In order to meet practical needs, there are a number of exceptions to the obligation to keep closed on Sundays and holidays. Where the exemption rules should be restricted and what considerations should be given to weight, there may be different perceptions. The opening time provisions of the Holiday Peace Act were under discussion in the Stortinget both in 2008 and 2009. In a proposal from four major representatives of the Christian People's Party, it was proposed that the Stortinget should ask the government through regulation to prevent the circumvention of the opening times in the Holy Peace Act. In another proposal from three representatives of the Progress Party, it was proposed to wind up the opening hours. And now the question is again up to debate. The opening time arrangements create exposure. It is easy to see that the opposition is at least not entirely in agreement with itself in this matter. I believe that the debate on what society we want is important. I believe that the exposure around the opening hours shows that there is still a need to screen one day a week by setting limits on the commercial activity of these days. I notice that the member of the Committee from the Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to tighten the provisions relating to the selection of goods in order to avoid today's legislation being undermined as a result of the slipping out and unclear perception of the purpose of the law. To this I would like to point out that any supplementary provision could easily address new and difficult demarcation problems where there may be doubts about the interpretation. But I fully agree that the provisions of the Holiday Peace Act that allow certain outlets to be open on Sundays should not be made. The judgment in which a merchant in Troms was recently punished for keeping Sunday open in violation of the rules could give strong signals to the industry not to impose the limits of legal Sunday trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e309	I am recording an incredibly strong commitment from the Council of State with regard to the Holiday Peace Act here in this country and that there must be limits to commercialisation. I wonder if the Council of State has been out and seen that one store after another now opens the shop-in-store. Then you can ask yourself if it means that if you have a store of 100 m2, it will not erode the Holiday Peace Act, but if it is 105 or 110 m2, it will erode the Holiday Peace Act. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote an answer to this question. It states that there is no ‘need for or appropriate to have specific exemption rules for legal Sunday trade’. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: what does the Council of State add to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e324	As I wrote in my letter, I believe that the exceptions that are available today are sufficient to allow us to make the necessary trade that someone thinks they need to do on Sunday, and I believe that there is no need for new exceptions in addition to the provisions that are currently available. What we're going to do, I think we're able to deal with the rules of today's holiday peace, and I think it's important that we set some limits on what we're going to open up to on Sundays.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e329	I hear the council say from the pulpit that she records that the opposition does not entirely agree with itself. Then I have to say that I'm sitting and whining a little bit from my place here in the hall. It doesn't seem that the position agrees with itself either. Because it is quite rare that no representatives of the red-green parties write any comments on the matter. The only comment from the red-green parties in this matter is that they refer to the letters of the Council of State. It is also the first time I have been involved in dealing with a matter in this room where none of the red-green magnification representatives take the floor. I think that's a little special, and I wonder if there's ever such a small disagreement in the positions as well. But my question to the Council of State is why the Council of State believes it is absolutely necessary for the regulation of trade in goods to support current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e336	As I said in my post, I think it makes sense that we have rules that set some limits for commercial activity on Sundays and holidays. I believe that today's law is a balanced balance between different conditions, and that we have found to some extent a balance between what are kiosks and grocery stores and other activities related to trade on Sundays. I believe that there is no need to find any new rules for that. Either way, if we want to have some exceptions, there will be boundaries that have to be walked, and boundaries will be difficult. Therefore, I believe that today's rules are sufficient, and that we have the necessary balance that we need to carry out the necessary trade on Sundays, if we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e343	The Council of State indicates that there is disagreement in the opposition on this issue, and I can confirm that. But now there's firm practice in the Storting, you might say, that the opposition is made up of independent parties with their own programmes in this area as well. What is more unusual, on the other hand, and what we can read every day in the newspapers of these days, is that the position disagrees with itself on important questions for countries and people. Otherwise, I thought to the extent that the Council of State would have rejoiced that the Christian People's Party sometimes actually agreed with the government on important value issues. But my question goes on that pressure against slipping that the Council itself referred to, and a sentence that hopefully sets a standard. Will the Council of State monitor the development of trade in goods and ensure that the intentions of today's legislation are respected?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e352	That's the answer. We closely follow the derogations granted by the county officials in the case of Sunday trade, and we have reviewed the regulations in place relating to typical tourist sites, for municipalities may apply for derogations from the rules if there is a high level of tourist traffic in the area. There are 57 regulations that have been adopted around it. We follow closely what regulations are being implemented, what matters are being dealt with by the county, what applications are being granted by the county council, and what applications the county council rejects, so it will be a natural follow-up for us. Of course, we also follow how the prosecution authority treats the cases that come to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e357	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e362	One of the more curious structures that has come from the politicians' hands in Norway and here in Stortinget is the so-called Brustad-bua. Shops that hold large, bright and airy premises on weekdays have to move on Sundays to narrow cottages where customers are almost stacked in height to get space. But the world has changed. Today, no one seriously believes that it would be harmful for consumers to shop in as large stores on Sundays as otherwise this week. Today's legislation otherwise gives many unfair results. For example, Bonnpreis operates on Sunday open shops, among other things. in the valley of Oppdal, Bjorli, and Aspøya. But on Åndalsnes, it's not allowed. In other words, there is a need for a clean-up and decoration of this law. If you need groceries on Sundays, you can shop in a tight place, in Brustad arches, or you can shop in a crowded and expensive place at a gas station. So large and cheap grocery stores are not allowed to keep Sunday open. This seems to be the majority of the Stortinget and the red-green government is tricked and a good idea. Regulations always create difficult border crossings. For example, shops that have to be closed on Sundays are dissatisfied with what they think is a suspiciously large range of products in the garden centres, which have exceptions and can be kept open. What are gardening centres allowed to sell? Governments mentioned something, but the sample has been expanded, and today a larger range of goods is being offered. I forbid, so I'm a politician. Sometimes it seems as if it is a prerequisite for being a politician that you have a great urge to ban things. What makes people use political capital to ban color TV, rollboards or selling fresh bread on Saturdays, to take some historical examples. Imagine if we could get more politicians who went home one afternoon without feeling that the day was thrown away if nothing was forbidden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e381	In this debate, it has been said that there is a certain pressure to buy from Norwegian consumers, and that Sunday trade is part of the pressure to buy. Now, in the debate, we have also experienced a speech press. I would like to take the opportunity to take the word only to cancel the opposition's attempt to doubt whether the positioning parties are united in this matter. When we hadn't drawn ourselves to debate initially, it's because we have a brilliant Council of State in Rigmor Aasrud, who can explain in an excellent way the views of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in this matter, which there is a tremendous consensus. So we can just cancel that claim. Times change. When I grew up, it was common to trade on Saturday. You took a cardboard spoon and traded everything you needed in the course of a week and you weren't at the store for the rest of the week. Now you are often at the store several times a day every day of the week. Of course, it puts pressure on those who work in the sector, but it also leads to increased purchasing pressure. I think people will have to do what they need in the legislation we have today. But maybe we should also stop and look at what society we want? Do we want a society where you're going to buy, be a consumer, every hour of the day every day of the week? Or do you want to cover some of the time this week? I believe that we have a rather ok balance for this in the law that we have today. The legislation ensures a high degree of flexibility for Norwegian consumers and protects workers in the sector and provides them with some days off. Consumers can also take a few days of breaks from the shopping press, and perhaps enjoy a day off. Both as an employee in the store and as a consumer, you can spend a Sunday in the field and in the woods, outdoors, with the kids and the family, instead of queueing in the store. So that call can go to all of us: out and new spring! I think that the law we have today certainly takes care of both the consideration of workers and the great degree of flexibility for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e392	So it's sometimes necessary to point out that society is changing. So for those of us who are so old that we remember the 1960s, it was at that time that in most households, there was one income – one was out in full-time work. Then it was the housewife who was shopping. It usually took place in the middle of the day of the first day of the week. Two-income families increase the need for extended opening hours. So there's a need to deal in the evenings, when people come home from work, and on weekends. So, as far as it goes, with Brustad-bua, the Workers' Party follows with the garden centres and the petrol station shops that are allowed to have an extra 50 m2 in relation to the Brustad-bua. But it's going small. Anticipatingly, the Labour Party follows slowly. We got the Food Chains Selection yesterday. An important part of the setting up of the Matkette Committee is a deadly criticism of Norwegian grocery trade because the selection is so poor. Take a look at the Brustad arches and the gas station shops, and you'll see that the Matkede range is right. The selection is miserable, and there's nothing better than the beautiful words of weekend peace from the Christian People's Party and the resistance of the Workers' Party. I would also like to say to the previous speaker, Stokkan-Grande, who said that employees must be allowed to have some days off: but in all days – that we are going to go in for Sunday-open shops, then does not mean that employees will work seven days a week. I thought it was possible, even for one in the Workers' Party, to understand it after all these years of this debate. Just as in all other sectors, which have also been mentioned in this debate before, in the care professions, for example, where there must be people in place, not just seven days a week, but 24 hours a day, there are, of course, also arrangements here to ensure that workers' needs for leisure time are met in an excellent way. It will also be the case if the shops are allowed to stay open on Sundays. For this reason, the Progress Party promotes the proposals referred to in the case, which are consistent with that in most other European countries. So this is not an additional proposal from the Progress Party. This is mainstream opening time policy, as we see it in our neighbouring countries and other European countries. So let me conclude, President, get encouraged: put the past behind you, and follow along in time! Finally, for the sake of order: the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e409	I explained in my previous article the position of the Christian People's Party in the debate. What makes me take the floor one more time is the repeated rallies of the Progress Party over what is called prohibition policy, and the fact that, like, you don't take seriously the fact that society is changing. The protection of sacred peace is part of our Christian cultural heritage. I think that's obvious to most people. Society is changing – yes, but does it mean to the Progress Party that the Christian cultural heritage is less important? Society is changing – yes, but does it mean to the Progress Party that the need for families to be together is less important? We also understand that liberalisation of opening hours does not mean that workers have to work seven days a week. But for a lot of families, it's actually not just the number of days a week you have free, that counts, but the number of days you have free together. The employees have now clearly stated where they stand in that case. It also speaks for itself. It is, of course, what is value conservation policy, to take seriously that society is changing, to adapt laws and regulations, as society is changing, but to take care of some fundamental values through changing times. That's exactly what value-conservative policy is. That's exactly what the majority is about in this case – protecting the holiday peace. The fact that we are moving towards a society with increased commercial pressure does not reduce the need to have a day that is different this week. On the contrary, the social changes speak for the fact that it is especially important to take care of one day a week as a different day, one day a week when we actually have better time – better time together. I think the matter reveals some important differences also in the value choices in politics, and here I think the Progress Party shows its true liberal face.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e423	First of all, I think that the Christian People's Party should not be so negative about showing its true liberal face. It tries the left to do at any time. I'm a little unsure if the Progress Party really does. But enough about it. It was actually Stokkan-Grande that made me take the floor. I tickle that Stokkan-Grande and I have had a fairly similar growth, at least culturally, and that really makes my point even better – that our country is different. I grew up in a small place with two shops, a cooperative and a family-owned grocery store. Both closed at 4 p.m. 17, and that's right, as Stokkan-Grande says, that we brought box on Saturday and traded. But because we had a small family-owned shop in a small community, it was so that if Mom had forgotten to buy cream on Sunday, and wanted to make fast-making balls, she traveled up to him Narve and got creamed sail if the store wasn't open. It would be unreasonable to have such opening hours with the operating structure that Overhalla had at the time, where there was only a family-owned store, and it was only the family that stood there. I think maybe if the local government had got the election, they wouldn't have changed the opening hours right there and then, because it worked well in the community. I have to admit that for me it was a great transition to move to this big city, where I did not know where to get cream if the shops were closed, because there was no Narve to call on Sunday and ask if we could still get cream. Our country is different, the operating structures are different, the property structures are different, our entire social structures are very different around the country, and that's why the Left has promoted this proposal. We believe that if local government sits down, they will be able to make good rules that maintain the balance of individual communities, the economic structures that are there, and that they take into account that labour supply is also different. I think that Brustad-bua, and other things, makes it too easy to be a populist party, and I'm a little surprised that the government doesn't take over. It's so easy for the Progress Party to make fun of Brustad Arcs, and it's so easy to make fun of politicians' regulations. Moving power – and debate – down to those that it actually concerns will make it a little harder to make fun and populist solutions on how stupid we politicians are making such stupid solutions. So moving power down will also take away the possibility of making fun around the job we do in this room, and it will move the power where someone can actually balance what it's about having an opening time that takes care of both the business structure, the family life and the social structure of each community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e442	Brustad-bua is, of course, not a major, decisive issue for Norwegian society, but it is a good example of an exaggeration of – and excess – regulation by political teams in Norway and from the government parties. The argument about protecting the employee's free time is useful, and several of the representatives have been in this particular position. There are many people who actually want to work on Sundays, and who think it's practical to work on Sundays, and it's part of the family cabal that you can also work on days other than weekdays. So there are different needs in that area. It is clear that the regulatory framework should also be kept within this framework. Here it is not a matter of working overtime and overtime, but of sticking to regulations. As may have been the case recently, there is a significant group in Norway that does not have their holidays on Sundays, but on other days of the week, for example. on Fridays, and like to work on Sundays. It seems to me that the Christian People's Party wants to have Sunday-free because they want a larger attendance in the church on Sundays, and that's understandable, because the attendance is falling and falling. But I don't think this is a crucial question to get to it. The United States, which has very liberal opening hours, has a much larger visit to its churches than what you can refer to in Norway, so there are probably other steps the Christian People's Party must take to get up the church visit. I don't think the size of the store is crucial here. You can go to Rimi's websites, and there they have found the solution to how to deal with this code: they build big shops, bright, beautiful shops, but then they make a little Brustad-bu inside this big store. And on Sundays they do some grips, they move on some goods and some railings, and then they can stay open. I can refer a little bit to what they write on Rimi's websites, and they've found the solution. I think it's nice that the council can't go in and look at it, because here it's tricked and mixed – so you get it if you want. But that is not the way the legislation should be. Rimi writes on his pages: ‘Even Brustadbua is designed according to the new Rimi concept. – We have all the most common everyday responses in our Brudstadbua, plus a little more. Now our customers are free to go to the gas station, they can also shop reasonable goods with us on Sundays." So Rimi gets it there, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e460	It's amazing to listen to this debate and listen to the argument from the Christian People's Party and especially from the government parties. It's like a previous speaker said: this is «mainstream». There's no new Progress Party coming in today. What is out in everyday life in Norway today is, as the previous speaker said, a shop in the store. You will receive all the groceries either at 7-Eleven or at Statoil or at the store in the store. And then you have the plantation. Is it so that the plantation is absolutely amazing, that it does not strike the holiday peace? When the Christian People's Party can stand here and start asking questions about the relationship of the Progress Party with the Christian cultural heritage and how important it is for the family to be together, this will be a low point in this debate! Yeah, you know what, I'll take myself as an example. I am going on a Sunday morning on Sola Beach with my children, and then we find out that we want to make waffles when we get home. But then we think, oh the filler, we don't have eggs. Then it's very good to be able to go to the store at the store, or at Statoil and buy that package of eggs. Or when you suddenly find out on a Saturday afternoon that Sunday school is going, and they're going on a barbecue. No, we forgot to buy grill sausages, but then we can go to the store and buy the grill sausages. Therefore, in essence, the Christian People's Party should wake up. Either they must ban everything, or they can ask their own members if they are acting on a Sunday. There must be logic in this. The Progress Party has taken on board the developments we have in society today. There's no point in making any fun of this. These aren't jokes, these are the realities of society. It's a mockery of families when we start asking questions about how they use their leisure time. For the Progress Party, it is important that families themselves take care of their leisure time, and they do so without us politicians going in and running it. Allow them to shop at shops when they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e473	I didn't intend to take the floor in this case, but when I heard how many people are in the commercial sector who are happy to work on Sunday, I couldn't stop. It's only one month since I got here at Stortinget, and before that I have 30 years behind me in the grocery business. I have been trusted for many years, and have not yet met someone who is happy to work on Sunday, so I obviously have other friends. We are fully aware that commercial employees will not work seven days a week, but there are many who are required to work three evenings, they are required to work every other Saturday, and they will also be required to work every other Sunday. Now it's like the kids are free when school's free. When will you have time to be with your kids? Another argument is that there are very many others who have to work on Sunday. Yeah, I'm sorry. In the health sector, there is good luck, and many have to work on Sundays, on public holidays and at night. It's not possible to do anything about this. We can't feed my grandmother at the nursing home on Friday, so she's sat until Monday, but we can buy a trick on Saturday, so we can stay until Monday. Another thing, which hasn't been problematic at all here, is the food prices. I think there are many here in the Chamber who complain that it is too expensive in Norway, food and groceries are too expensive in Norway. Obviously, they are becoming more expensive the longer the opening time we have. It's not that we need more trick, more milk, or more of other groceries seams if we're acting at other times. No, we're moving our turnover from Saturday to Sunday, and the employees are going to have to pay when they're going to work one more day, and it's going to have to be added to the profits on the goods. At the time I started at the store, the usual opening time was from 9.00 p.m. 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. 17, and then it was Saturday open from 7 p.m. 9 to 13 o'clock. We see from the development now that there are twice the average opening time in all grocery stores. Part of the high price level is due to the fact that we have long opening hours, and that we need to have more hourly pay for the employees. At least the centre party agrees that we should keep the Sunday peace, we should not have normal opening time in all shops on Sunday. So we fully agree that we keep the holiday peace, so that the family can be allowed to be together on those days, at least where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e488	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e491	I take the floor to clarify that the debate here is not about who allows himself to act when, and the moral in when each of us allows us to act. Those who want to shop in a Brustad bus or at a gas station on Sunday, do it, and they do it, of course, within the law. But it's about how, as a society, we make trade regulations to make sure that we make sure that we can have a good time, and have a good time together. I notice with interest that the Progress Party notes that there may be different religious communities, life-viewing societies, which have different holidays, and that they are used as arguments. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party believes that because we have received different cultures, different religions in immigration, it should be used as an argument to remove important elements of the Christian cultural heritage. On the contrary, we shall strengthen the Christian cultural heritage and use it as a basis to welcome other cultures to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e498	Since we have a very long day ahead of us, it is fine if the next advertised speeches are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e501	First of all, I must say that I had never intended to speak in this debate. But when I hear the will of the majority, where you don't want to facilitate the creation of a dynamic society that can actually'serve' its own population in the best possible way – we live in 2011 – and the substituting arguments that are used in this matter, it's almost so you have to draw on the smileband of it. I remember 1984, when Henning Holstad fought his battle to be allowed to sell milk and bread from a big kiosk. He ended up being fined and arrested. On the other hand, it was entirely legitimate to sell both shower, chocolate and others – as many would claim – not so healthy products, but milk and bread were prohibited. I well remember many other examples, such as: When you went towards having TV 2 in Norway – we should not have transparency. Everything must be governed, and it must be governed politically. I actually think that the consumer is able to control this in a very good way. I also don't think that in the future it will be that all the shops will have an open Sunday. But in those shops and in those municipalities where this is interesting, you actually want to implement it to put in place a dynamic society that's connected. If you do not want workers to work on a Sunday, I have to say that for 20 years of my life I have worked offshore. There was never anyone there who discussed whether to work on a Sunday or not. Do you have to shut down an entire oil industry if you're going to treat it the same way? Take our neighboring country. Take Russia. Take the rest of Europe. They realize that we're going to have a society where the wheels are going to walk around in a dynamic way 24 hours a day, it's actually in their place that we have to have stores that sell products. We need a pharmacy that's open. We need hospitals that are open. We need gas stations open. What in the name of heaven is wrong with that? Or is it that we once again experience a great 'Ola Dunk' in a political matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e510	It was really the representative of Mr. Greni who made me ask for the floor one more time in this debate, since she presented herself as a trustee in the daily food industry for over 20 years and in those years had never met a single employee who wanted to work on Sundays. How are we gonna interpret that? At least I interpret this as a sign that the trust elected members of the LO system have gradually lost contact with grassroots in Norwegian business, when it is complemented by complaints that employees have to work in the evening. We are therefore left with trustees in Norwegian grocery stores who believe that you should buy milk and bread, it should be done in the morning on ordinary weekdays. That time is definitely over. That's why in my previous post I invited representatives of the red-green parties to follow along in time. Finally, in the case of the representative of Hope, who believes that this is a religious question, and that buying eggs on Sundays is a threat to the Christian cultural heritage. I think it is wrong, and I also think I can prove that it is wrong, because in Europe the most Catholic countries have the most liberal opening hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e519	Then we have another graphed speaker. The President thought now was the closing time for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e523	It is not my intention to extend the debate. Just a little consideration like summing up the debate we've had: there were some people up here who made clues about what the Christian People's Party motive really was for having Sundays. In summary of the debate, we can at least end the following: that the Progress Party also has its god, which is Mammon, and the malls are their cathedrals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e528	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e544	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e553	Electronic communications have become increasingly important for everyday life in a modern society. The dissemination of documents, ideas and ideas and the exchange of information on electronic media have become increasingly important in recent years. Similarly, it has become quite normal for electronic processing to be carried out in completely different locations from those where the enterprises are located. Broadband has therefore become a prerequisite for a varied business and residence throughout the country. The Committee considers that access to electronic communications is in many ways as important as access to other means of communication. It is therefore natural that public authorities continue to play a central role in the development of the offer. The development of modern broadband networks is the very basis for the sound and good development of districts. In many cases, the provision of mobile coverage and broadband access is crucial for young people’s place of residence. Nevertheless, the State has taken far less responsibility for this expansion than for road and rail. Norway was early off-limits to the use of electronic communications, and we have been high on the statistics on the provision and use of electronic services. In recent years, however, we have been slowing down. A recent analysis of the EU’s eGovernment Benchmark shows that Norway has today been bypassed by many EU countries. In Norway, the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church use a broadband definition at a speed of 640 kbit/s. This broadband definition comes from St.meld. No 49 for 2002–2003 and allows the Norwegian authorities to claim that 99,7 pst. broadband is available to residents of Norway. The majority of the Committee acknowledges that broadband deployment through fibre access is very expensive in Norway, with the geography and settlement we have. Therefore, commercial operators do not consider it economically viable to expand broadband to all citizens. Technological developments in the achievement of ever higher speeds through the use of already expanded telephone lines will be a good alternative for many over a period of time. However, for a full offer, state participation will be necessary. The EU Commission launched the Digital Agenda for Europe 2010–2020 on 19 May 2010. The aim of the plan is for all EU citizens to have access to broadband in 2013, for all to be able to connect to 30-100 Mbit/s broadband by 2020, and for at least half of the EU households to have subscriptions to broadband at least 100 Mbit/s in 2020. Several EU countries have legalised the right to good broadband coverage, and Finland has, for example, the statutory entitlement to 1 Mbit/s for all in the country and it shall be extended to 100 Mbit/s by 2015. The statutory right covers the whole of Finland, with the exception of 2000 people in very remote areas, and also specifies distance from access points. The Government states that it will continue to contribute to increasing mobile coverage and continue its efforts to facilitate broadband with sufficient capacity to meet future needs, but in this context has set no target for speed and capacity for a given period. The minority in the Committee, which is made up of government parties, underlines that commercial actors are now building fibre-broadbands across the country. At the end of 2010, for example: 445000 broadband Internet subscription via cable TV. It is emphasised that fibre-net expansion shows that competition works, but it is still the case that the offer is much better in cities than in scattered areas. The majority of the Committee would stress the importance of the Højkom programme, established in 1999, and its importance for the development of broadband communications in Norway. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Church stresses in its reply that broadband policy in Norway is based on market-based expansion. The majority do not advocate full State governance of development, but emphasise the need for coordination and the importance of a target over a period of time. Especially important here is the coordination between mobile broadband coverage and fibre-based deployment. Stimulation of participation is also important. In particular, the majority will emphasise the importance of high-speed broadband as part of the organisation of migration and growth in knowledge-based workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e579	Everyone believes that real broadband is a prerequisite for a varied business and residence throughout the country. It's probably almost like we've got a generation of young people who wonder what life would be like without the Internet and without broadband. As soon as progress has been made. The European Commission has adopted a very ambitious target for broadband access by 2013. In addition, the Commission aims at enabling all residents to connect to 30-100 Mbit/s broadband by 2020 and at least half of the EU households by 2020 to have broadband subscriptions of at least 100 Mbit/s. Several EU countries have higher ambitions than this. Finland has legalised the right to at least 1 Mbit/s for everyone in the country, which is to be extended to 100 Mbit/s by 2015. However, there are also some other countries, and one of the other countries is Norway. In Norway, we have defined that if you have a speed of 640 kbits/s download and 128 kbits/s upload, you can at least see the debates from this pulp, from Stortinget, and then you have broadband access according to the department – despite the fact that at such a low speed you can neither see NRK online TV, TV 2 nor most other TV channels live images on the Internet. I therefore believe that continuing to maintain that 640 kbit/s is a definition for broadband, is definitely posted, and that a definition should be put in place as soon as possible in line with both technological developments and what could normally be defined as broadband – and at least what other countries in Europe define as broadband – or the United States for that matter, which has based far higher definitions than 640 kbit/s on what broadband is. But of course, it's about being able to hit the chest and say, look, how good we are - 99.7 pst. by the population of Norway has broadband! At the moment you start to define yourself in relation to what all other countries define as broadband, and then it's not very much to hit the chest for anymore – and at least not when we see what ambitions other countries have. This is why we in the Progress Party have actually promoted this proposal in this matter. We are asking for an action plan on a funding solution to implement a genuine national broadband promise with the aim of creating a high-speed broadband across Norway. I have registered that representatives of the government parties have guaranteed and promised both 50 Mbit/s and perhaps even higher by 2015. With the resources that the government has invested in this, I think you're far from it when you get to 2015. As I said, it is important that that plan is now actually being presented to the Stortinget during 2011, so that broadband capacity can be expanded rapidly throughout Norway. We also believe that it must be a prerequisite that the definition of what should underlie broadband in Norway should not fall behind the definition of any other country in Europe. In fact, we should have put in place 30-100 Mbits/s long before the EU, in relation to their ambitions to put it in place in all the countries there. By 2020, there is a poor ambition for a country that believes to have both resources and opportunities, and we believe broadband is important for the whole country. We should be there in 2015 and not in 2030, which is probably the result, if you want to continue with this little bet that comes from the red-green government. I find it sad that you do not continue to bet on Høykom, which was a very good arrangement, where businesses, county councils and the state together made sure to build real broadband where market forces did not succeed on their own. That's what this is all about: putting in place a whole plan and setting up a funding solution. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e600	I'm taking up my minority proposal, and it's done. It's a little fun to listen to the Progress Party and the Right in this case – I always have to rip it up when I hear them looking like this: they've just run this country themselves, and it was only when this government got in place that there was speed in broadband development. The party's contribution to the budget is no reason to turn on the chest at all when this is the case, when they directed the country – just so it's said. Then the representative Hoksrud made me start to maim a little in my head about when the television came to the country. I am so old that I experienced it. In 1961 we got television home, and then all the neighbors came to look at this black-and-white-wooded thing with goldfish on it. It's kind of the same thing we're talking about today. Everyone must have access to broadband. That's why the government has made the effort they've made, with Høkom, among other things, to get this done. So one is going very well, but one is not going to be in the goal. That's why we're also red-green at Stortinget that we want to push this forward, not least the Center Party has been very clear on this – among other things. in the nation – in the last. We other red-green have the same ambition as them. So here it's very important that we continue with the good work that the government has done, and the coordination that the government has managed to do. This is probably what the Council of State will come back to. Another interesting perspective is that the Progress Party, which is a market liberalist party, wants the market to control the country as much as possible – and the politicians at least possible, can sometimes get the impression – now that the state wants to clean it up here. Normally, the ideology of a liberalist party would be that this should sort out the market. And here's something special, and the Progress Party and the Right also understood that Norway is a special country. We are geographically extremely different, and people live mostly throughout the country. It has been a willful policy on the part of our government, and on the part of previous governments, too, I think we should use the whole country. That's why I want to end by saying, for the red-greens, this is an important thing. It is good that the Progress Party raises the issue. And then you'll see if you have the ideological solutions, actually, or if it's not us red-green that's kind of shown how to do this. In any case, the Progress Party, when they were in charge, has not proved that they gave priority to this matter. This government also prioritises this cause because we want to make use of the land, and because we want people to live in the districts. We'll bet on that industry and that technology so that he'll be available to most people, including in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e613	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e616	I take the word to give some brief comments from the Christian People's Party. I want to say that I am fully committed to the case-speaker's good report. The Christian People's Party also joins in the proposal. I share the concern that Norway, which has a very high medical level on the statistics on the use of electronic services, is now doing a little bit of it. It's the way technology is changing. Data volumes are increasing steadily. That's why what's broadband today doesn't necessarily have to be broadband tomorrow, because here's a change, and our expectations are bigger. Now I think the Progress Party can defend itself, but I think the attack from Hallgeir H. Langeland is also a response from other non-socialist parties. Because it is not that the non-socialist parties have said that the state should not be involved and take a responsibility here. This is infrastructure. As I know all the non-socialist parties, we are clear that the state should play a role in the construction of infrastructure. And that's infrastructure we're talking about today, too, but new types of infrastructure. Then, of course, we can discuss who is going to organize this. Do we have to get private into the expansion? But of course, the public should take responsibility here, just as the public takes responsibility within both the road and the railway. What's special about this infrastructure is that he's very important to District Norway. It's giving you a chance to create jobs in District Norway. That is why I am so pleased with the signals that have also come from the government that she wants to give priority to this. That is why it should also be good for the red-green parties to be in favour of this good proposal on what we need now, an action plan for this matter which we have some on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e629	There is no doubt that broadband is something that occupies many, and I agree with the Committee's emphasis that it is important that all citizens of the country can participate in the broadband offer. The government is pursuing an active policy to achieve this. The most important thing we can do is to facilitate the widest possible market-based expansion. If not, the bill for the state becomes unnecessary. Norway is well advanced in the vast majority of international broadband surveys, e.g. from the OECD and the EU. This applies to the provision and use of broadband in enterprises and households. The 2010 EU Commission’s overview of digital competitiveness highlights Norway as one of the most advanced countries in Europe in terms of Internet use and broadband coverage. The majority refer to the EU's eGovernment Benchmark Report in their comments. These statistics compare the development of electronic services in administration, not broadband coverage. There is little evidence that there is a link between broadband coverage and Norway’s place in that report. The main challenge in the eGovernment area is that administration must develop good self-service solutions and have some common assumptions in place, such as: eID. This is a high priority for the government, but the eGovernment ranking of the EU is, as I said, not a broadband survey. In the international context, broadband provision in Norway is very good and the further expansion of wider broadband is under way. At this stage of development, it should not be the government’s task to try to control neither the broadband market nor technological developments. Our main task should be to create good conditions for the market and remove unnecessary obstacles to development. Market actors are the drivers of technological development, the development of new services and business models and make investments in infrastructure and networks. The dynamics and innovativeness of this market are important to take care of and stimulate, and not to disrupt. I am therefore of the opinion that it is not appropriate, at this stage, to introduce a comprehensive and costly funding programme for a national broadband sector-based public sector. Such a funding programme would pose a risk of providing support to areas that would otherwise receive commercial coverage through new and improved technologies, such as: through the development of fourth generation mobile networks. There is also a risk of distorting commercially-based investments, by putting commercial actors on hold for planned expansion to take part in government funds, or by realizing that they are unable to compete with actors receiving public funds. An example of what we do to facilitate a good broadband offer across the country is the upcoming assignment of frequencies in the 800 MHz band, the so-called digital dividend that was released after the TV broadcasts were digitized. The use of these frequencies for mobile broadband can contribute to a broadband lift in many places in the country. The Ministry of Transport recently sent a note on the allocation at the hearing. In the consultation note, the Ministry requests the opinion of the hearing bodies on a population coverage requirement of up to 97 pst. The final demands will be made after the consultation, but there is no doubt that the government wants the attention of broadband across the country to be an important element. I would like to end by mentioning that the government already has a broadband financing facility in place, through the compensation funds of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which in 2011 is 128 million. kr. I have started working on a Digital Agenda for Norway, focusing on ICT-based value creation. Broadband would of course be a natural part of this work. When I start with the debate we have just concluded, where opening hours in the trade in goods were used as an example of the need for dynamic development in Norway, I think that dynamic developments in Norway are much more dependent on good broadband development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e652	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e655	Firstly, I am pleased that we can finally discuss broadband a little, because it is not like the Minister of Renewal is cleaning this house down with issues relating to broadband and ICT policy. I think it's once on the nearly six years I've been sitting on the Stortinget. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: she does not respond if she is satisfied that 640 kbit/s is the goal of broadband in Norway. Does the Council of State agree with Langeland that there is something to put on the chest for and something we should be satisfied with, or does not the Council of State also believe that this is not very ambitious? And why do you have this fear that business will be involved and contribute, so that you can build a real broadband in Norway as quickly as possible? I don't understand why the Council of States doesn't think it's good to work together and make sure that you get the broadband out faster and faster, so that we're in a tight place, and not behind the EU. There should be no ambition to be behind. We should be in front.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e662	I can confirm that I have at all fears that private individuals and private companies will develop broadband in Norway. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that we should base ourselves on market-based development and development in Norway. That's why we're adding the digital dividend to auction. Commercial operators shall be able to benefit from the digital dividend for which they have public ownership. Then I agree that 640 kbit/s is not a broadband target in Norway, but we have measured 640 kbit/s from the morning. We keep doing that, but we're also measuring other intervals. We measure a total of ten intervals of how broadband coverage is in Norway, and I think it makes sense to continue with that. 10 pst. of those who can get a wider broadband, today choose solutions of 1 Mbit/s. Therefore, it is important that we keep an eye on developments in all parts of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e672	The Council of State mentioned a project for the creation of value through ICT. We think that's very positive. I hope it gets some spread in the country. The Council of State also said that money would not be used because market-based expansion was to take place, technological development was to be market-based. In fact, we quite agree that progress must be made in this way. It's also positive that the digital dividend is now being used. We know that the 4G network is starting to spread across the country. It's starting to work well in Oslo, but it doesn't work well across the country. This is related to the fact that the 4G transmitter units must carry out fibre production. There is a need for coordination here. The question is: is the Council of State going to care about coordination, so that the best possible coverage is also available on this mobile network across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e681	These are key aspects of the consultation related to the digital dividend. It is absolutely right that fiber has to be passed to the base stations. If 4G technology is to be used, much of it must also be converted at the base stations that are there. The actors we have been in contact with are ready to start that job. I have great faith that the expansion of a 4G network will help us get more capacity on mobile broadband in those parts of the country that we may not think about today, because there will be the number of subscribers to use that base station, perhaps less than in the densely built strips. I think that we can see a significant increase in coverage when we get the auction of the digital dividend done, and that it starts building up related to it. This will be an important contribution to improving broadband coverage for more people in the District of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e690	I was very pleased with the conclusion of the Council of State, where she said that opening hours are much less important for rural development than broadband has. But the challenge with broadband is that if you don't have it, you'll feel it's closed – it's completely closed. What I want to challenge the Council of State is Høykom. Høkom supported innovative broadband projects in the public sector. There were 400 projects that received support from 1999 to 2008. Hoekkom was laid down in 2008. What is the government's assessment three years after this happened? How does a development experience after the closure of Hookom? Was the closure of Hookom correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e697	What I said in my conclusion was that I believe broadband is more important for a dynamic Norway than the opening hours in the trade in goods. Yes, Hoekom had his moustache in the period Hoekom was. Now we're in another phase. There are several actors who contribute to broadband development, and we have funds through the Local and Regional Ministry's schemes that go to county municipalities. I think it's a good system, which helps us to get action going where we don't get commercial players to join. I do not see any need at the moment for us to go back and use the Høykom system. The scheme that KRD has and uses, I believe, is the one that produces the most effect per day in those areas of Norway that do not have full broadband coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e704	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e707	In the Ministry’s reply to the proposal from the Party of Advances, it is said that the government has no objective of ‘accessing a particular capacity to everyone’, although they are aware that governments in other countries have such objectives. We can certainly say that without a goal there will be no action or expansion either. In 2010, for the first time data traffic was greater than voice traffic, and the forecast says that data traffic is expected to be up to 30 times higher than voice traffic in a short time. Then it's even more important for Norway that we set goals, and not let it scour and go. So we're not going to have access to a particular capacity, the government says, but having reasonable and good capacity as other countries should be a matter of course for the Norwegian population, no matter where you live. Agder may well be the place in Norway that has taken the broadband problem seriously. The Agder people got 20 million. kr in Hikom funds. Both municipalities and all 30 municipalities spent money in the pot to develop broadband for the entire population in Agder, both in East Agder and in West Agder, as a good cooperation project. Then we're not talking about a speed from first-generation broadband, but about broadband with reasonable, good and satisfactory capacity. The Agder people made an agreement with a company, and the citizens of Agder who want broadband got it within eight weeks. If neither East-Agder nor West-Agder had set targets, it would not have been possible to achieve this. First goal, then means, then implementation. I believe this is an example of follow-up, and Norway as a country should also set high targets for high-speed broadband coverage. This is, after all, far more important than lightning trains, which in any case won't make any difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e736	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e745	Norway is in a special position as regards the possibility that a large proportion of freight traffic should be carried out by sea. The Committee notes that in recent years there has been a great deal of agreement also in the political environment on the transfer of major parts of goods from road to rail and sea. When the transport of goods by sea continues to lose ground in kilometres, this appears to be due to a number of factors which, individually, would not prevent such a development, but which, in sum, lead to the desired development not to occur. For example, road transport over Svinesund has increased sharply in recent years, while the development of maritime transport has been stable. It's not a desired development. The benefits of maritime transport can be better exploited if more comprehensive measures are taken than we have today. While tonnes transported in unit loads across Oslo port have been nearly constant from 2001 to 2007, transport over Svinesund has increased by 40 pst. during the same period. Analysis of the structure of maritime transport charges shows that there is a much higher share of the transport costs of maritime transport related to public transport charges than that of car transport. SINTEF MARINTEK already pointed out in 2001 that maritime transport has a higher level of self-financing than the other means of transport. Estimates from the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation show that maritime transport is largely financed by users and that nearly 640 million are paid in 2011. kr in fees and charges only for the Coastal Works and that fees and charges related to the unloading service amount to 500 million. NOK of this amount. In some cases, the fees are estimated to be 40 pst. of the total operating costs of the ships. This situation clearly prevents increased transport of goods by sea. The majority of the Committee considers that a level of taxation on maritime transport that reduces this mode of chartering is particularly unfortunate in view of the climate, as energy consumption per tonne-kilometre is half that of maritime transport compared to road transport. If we compare the cargo capacity of the various modes of transport, we see that a train can take 20 semi-trailers, while a boat takes 150-200. In 2006, the Norwegian Veritas presented an evaluation report on the unloading service. The report concluded that the number of unloadings can be reduced by 25-30 pst. without prejudice to safety and with the associated cost reduction potential for maritime transport of between 50 and 100 million. kr annually. In 2009, maritime transport operators themselves took the initiative of a project under the title ‘How does maritime transport succeed in an enlarged perspective?’. On 3 November 2010, the report, entitled ‘How to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport?’, came from a company called Sitma AS, on behalf of Norsk Havneforening, Norske Havner, Landsforening of the Logistics and Transport Industries and the Coastal Works. The report suggests that the national transport plan should contain concrete objectives and strategies for the transfer of goods from road to sea and rail. The strategy and measures for maritime transport are almost completely excluded from the current NTP. The report states that there are too many transport corridors. An important barrier to increased maritime transport is that in many cases there is too low concentration of goods in the hubs for the volume benefits of maritime transport to be exploited, even if the total volume of goods is large. Focusing on fewer NTP transport corridors will make transport by sea more favourable and one must exceed a certain minimum volume. The Committee would also point out the importance of a level playing field for shipping companies operating along the coast. In this context, it is important that ships registered abroad which have not chosen to be a member of the NOx Fund are also followed up, so that they, like Norwegian shipping companies, pay the levy imposed. The Committee considers that one of the prerequisites for success in increasing maritime transport of goods is the development of ports as an efficient logistics hub. The Committee would also stress the importance of coordination between ports, charterers and shipowners and that a certain specialisation of ports will promote the intention to achieve a greater share of maritime transport. The members of the Committee from the Government Parties stress that the annual framework for maritime transport has been increased by 77 pst. compared with the previous period, and reduced in terms of unemployment and unloading charges, so that there is a saving of 29 million. kr. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right argue that the government, when drawing up the notification requested here, highlights the above-mentioned report and the proposals for action plan contained in the report. I now turn to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e780	The representative Lars Myraune has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e783	Proposals seek to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in the transport of persons and goods. It's a wish that I fully share. The Government, in its Soria Moria II Declaration, has also stressed the need to stimulate the development of maritime freight transport, and this helps to provide the background for government's holistic transport policy. Maritime transport is a natural and important part of the national transport plan, and NTP is one of the most important tools we have to achieve the objectives of the transport sector. In a recent press release from Avinor, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Administration and the State Road Administration, transport networks presented their sectoral core network services in connection with the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. This is an important basis for further work on the revision of the national transport plan. In addition to the more sector-specific formulations, common target formulations are also presented. Not surprisingly, there's a major challenge in getting traffic from car to public in our big cities. In addition, it is emphasised that industry and rural inhabitants depend entirely on a functioning transport system in order to create the most robust construction and labour markets possible, and that, therefore, more needs to be organised in order to transfer more goods from road to sea and to rail. I believe that this promises well in view of seeing the modes of transport better in context, and further work on the transport plan, where the Stortinget will also be involved, will really be able to make the necessary efforts to achieve the goal of more goods from road to sea. A communication on measures to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport, as proposed here, can initially be a good idea. However, we will not support it now. The main reason is not that we consider maritime transport to be of little importance. On the contrary, maritime transport is so important that precisely in order to increase its share of freight transport, strategic grips and measures need to be developed through a comprehensive assessment of the transport sector. Then it is our national transport plan that is the right and best framework to work on this. When the objective is to increase the competitiveness of maritime transport, it is important to define the competitive modes of transport. There is probably not so much research and distribution needed to establish that it is mostly our roads and trucks. Therefore, it is crucial that one more in the transport planning process really has the power to balance this in a way where the road system is also more involved in making maritime transport and our ports more attractive to the owners of goods. In addition, the current NTP is also a good framework for improving the competitiveness of maritime transport. Several important steps have been taken to reduce taxes, simplify legislation and repair ports and fairways. Several reports have also been drawn up pointing to concrete actions that could move in the right direction, and the Minister is in a good and important dialogue with the actors involved in the industry. When it comes to maritime transport more specifically, the annual frame for this area has increased by 77 pst. compare with the previous planning period. It represents an annual increase in the Coastal Agency’s budget of about 470 million. kr. All of this is good. The volume of freight by sea has increased, but at the same time the volume of goods by road has increased. Therefore, it is so important that the forthcoming budgets also follow up with measures within the government's efforts over the last few years. There is a great potential here, not only for getting more goods at sea, but also a great potential for reducing climate change and getting more environmentally friendly transport, which the case-speaker had in place. 60 pst. of the carriage of goods by sea. The strength of maritime transport is to be able to take large quantities of goods over long distances. The core distribution of the Coastal Plant suggests that the sea should be able to take on an even larger volume of transport in the future. I would like to take up with this the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e809	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e812	As one of the proposers, I am pleased that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party support our proposal for our own big message in order to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. It is a pity that the government parties will not support the proposal, but will agree to attach it to the protocol. The proposal has been consulted by the Transport Committee. Norwegian Port Association, National Association of Logistics and Transport Industries, KS Business Port, Norwegian Shipowners' Association and Maritime Forum participated. After the hearing, the Shipowners’ Association has sent an opinion on the proposal. All those who took part, praised the initiative and gave broad support to the proposal for a separate Communication on Raising the competitiveness of maritime transport in the national transport of persons and goods. It's a pleasure. It is also gratifying that there is a broad political consensus that more goods and more transport need to be moved from land to sea. But it's going to be mostly with party speeches. Clearer targets, strategies and concrete, effective actions are missing. In the view of the Progress Party, it is a major disadvantage for good transport policy that responsibility for maritime transport lies with the Ministry of Fisheries and not with the Ministry of Transport. The Progress Party has proposed meetings in the Ministry of Transport many times and will probably do so again. We have noticed that this was also pointed out at the hearing and at the hearing: «Marine transport issues should be sorted under SD and not FKD.» The Progress Party proposal is based on the report ‘How to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport?’ presented in November 2010 and developed jointly by the National Association of Logistics and Transport Industries, the Norwegian Harbour Federation, the Norwegian Ports and the Coastal Works. It is a comprehensive, important and useful report. It contains proposals for action plan with 20 action points. The report and action plan provide a good basis for a big message. Of the specific issues raised by industry and users, distortions in the structure of taxation are when comparing land-based transport with sea-based transport. An illustration: In the case of a container ship along the coast, five calls may imply that charges are close to 50 pst. of the total operating costs of the ships. Of these, almost two third parties are supplied by the State. The infrastructure of maritime transport is largely financed by users. For 2011, as the rapporteur explained, the industry is paying 640 million. NOK in fees and charges for the Coastal Works, of which more than 500 million are made. kr alone for the unloading service. Therefore, the Progress Party, together with the Right, has proposals to implement changes in the pilot service. We believe that it is possible to reduce the fees, without compromising the necessary safety along the coast. The propulsion party agrees with the industry and with the users. It is essential for the competitiveness of maritime transport to reduce the overall tax burden, with a particular focus on the state level of taxation. Cut from government is good, but it's small. Then it is that in the last period the Progress Party tried many times to get its own big message about aviation. We were rejected on that until June 2008, when the government presented its own report entitled ‘The Strategy for Norwegian Aviation’. In the introduction, Minister for Transport Navarsete said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The aviation strategy is a self-contained document that allows for more in-depth discussion of aviation than the national transport plan. In the same way, the strategy also provides the opportunity to address issues specific to aviation, which are not natural for inclusion in the national transport plan.’ That's what we're asking for, preferably in the form of a big message, but it's just as helpful if it's done in a separate strategy paper. We hope that even if government parties reject a big message today, the government will work to give maritime transport the same attention that they have actually given to aviation. It is even more important that this be done within the maritime transport sector. It will then be possible to have a broad review of the state of maritime transport and the strategies for an active maritime transport in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e842	It's very good that there's an increasing commitment to maritime transport. It is important that we manage to get more of the goods transport on both the track and the sea and away from the road. It is very important that we do manage to take the debates on sea-country interconnection points, because the goods are going to be on land somewhere else. Both modes of transport – whether we are talking about rail or sea – belong naturally to the assessments of the national transport plan, where long-term strategies are and are laid down in relation to the way in which development is to be achieved. In the guidelines for the rolling of the national transport plan, particular attention has been paid to the need to see the overall picture, to cross the various modes of transport and to the points of interconnection. Then it will be extra natural after the view of the Centre Party that we take the balances in the national transport plan, precisely because they have asked you to see the overall picture as well. As far as porting is concerned, it will certainly be the subject of debate. This is the case with all types of locations in the ministry. There is a need for assessments, but we take those assessments every four years and not in the mid-term. I think, to be honest, that closer cooperation between all the actors, between the ports, municipalities and county municipalities, and the various state agencies and agencies, is probably as important as what goes on in which department the ports are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e853	From sea to sea has been a political objective for a long time. Most parties have it in their programs. It is mentioned in both Soria Moria I and Soria Moria II, climate change 2020 and the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. It says: «The aim is to help maritime transport to increase its share of the expected growth of transport.» The reason for this is obvious – it is that the transport sector is over-emissions of CO2, actually up to 35 pst. The maritime transport in isolation also contributed to emissions, but CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometre are lower by boat than by car, yes, partly well below the emissions from the car. In addition, large reductions are needed, e.g. using more LNG and new hull and propulsion structures. In this respect, maritime transport is environmentally and climate-friendly both today and in the future. An example that I think is a good way of seeing this is what we could hear six months ago at the NRK on E6 in Eastfold, that if the growth is going to continue today, the new E6 will be too small in 13-14 years. And then the country spokesperson was asked, what should we do? Then he said: then we are forced to use the railway to relieve the freight on the roads. I agree with the chairman that we are forced to use the railway, but in that case in Østfold, the boat could also be very important. I think it is mainly three grips that have to be taken to increase the use of goods on the boat. The Christian People's Party presented a proposal for a representative to abolish the establishment of a transport budget for all modes of transport. This is also where maritime transport has moved forward. Changes and improvements have been made to look at the transport modes in the context, including: We have a transport committee in Stortinget, and we have a national transport plan, but there is a need for even more interaction on the planning page. That's the one part. An example is, for example: Ganddal freight terminal at Stavanger. Would he today have been built 15 km from port if we had decided this today, or would we have co-located in a better way? The other thing that has also been drawn out by several people here is this with the fees. I am thinking that the level of charges must be reduced, so that we do not feel that shipping should be prioritised because of the level of charges we have today. So I also think that in the end we have to ask ourselves whether we distribute the funds in the national transport plan in a good way in terms of investment. Today it is that of our total funds is 6 pst. intended for maritime transport. We had a very good debate about just this issue a few months back in time. It was an interpellation that I had. At the time, I thought that the signals given by the Council of State were very positive. So I'm going to say that in order to follow up the good intentions that I experienced the council here, it would have been very exciting to have your own big message that had seen the soundness of this. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e877	The representative proposal under consideration today addresses important transport issues. I am very pleased with that commitment and will emphasise that the Storting with this helps to lift up the maritime part of the transport sector. The overall objective of the government’s transport policy is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system. The government will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry through a long-term policy for better accessibility, reduced distance costs and rational competition between modes of transport. Demand for transport is expected to increase sharply over the years to come. At the same time, the analyses show that there will be greater growth on the road than at sea. It is a challenge, both in terms of road safety, road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. The Government therefore wants to maximise the share of growth by rail and sea, and therefore emphasises the different advantages of transport – transferring transport from road to sea and rail and facilitating combined transport solutions. In my letter of 6 January this year, I have briefed the Norwegian Transport and Communications Committee on the main elements of government policy to strengthen maritime transport. I would like to highlight here the changes in the rules on unloading obligations and the unloading charges that improve the efficiency and cost reduction of the shipping industry, while stressing that the work on reviewing the unloading service is not completed. Assessments on the most appropriate way to organise the country for its tasks are important and demanding — of course also in the field of transport. In this context, I would like to point out that Norway is a significant port and that maritime and coastal management is carrying out a number of challenging tasks. In my view, the need and usefulness of taking that perspective into account are far greater than the benefits that may be achieved by bringing together all responsibility for transport policy in one department. Interactions between the various modes of transport are essential for strengthening maritime transport. Transport modes must therefore be treated together and at the same planning horizon as national transport plans. The government will therefore return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive review of transport policy. According to the plan, the national transport plan notification 2014-2023 is to be submitted in spring 2013. Transport by sea is one of the areas I want to give priority to in the roll-out of the transport plan. At the same time, there are a number of other actors who have instruments and who have to contribute to making the sea route even more attractive. Then I think about the ports, the municipalities, carriers, shipping companies and, not least, the goods owners. I'm convinced that it's possible to think new, and for business, a new approach to transport can quickly appear on the bottom line. The Government will continue to work to improve the framework conditions for maritime transport. For more maritime transport, social development will be beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e904	It opens for line chord shifts. The first line is Arne Sortevik, then Lars Myraune. There's room for one more line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e907	Thank you, President. If it's an open line, I could draw myself another one. But the first one: I'm taking this document with me, because it's an important document for aviation. But there is also an example that in one area the government has seen it as useful to create a separate strategy paper for one of the transport areas. It was to get a broad review of the state and challenges of aviation in Norway today. So it was done before you rolled the NTP last time. Is it not necessary to have a broad and thorough review and a good strategy document for enhancing the competitiveness of maritime transport as a response to the roll-out that is now coming from the national transport plan? It was just underlined in the strategy paper that came for aviation, that it was part of the rolling work for new NTP, and that it was important to do so, because an in-depth discussion of aviation could thus be obtained. Is there not a need for a more detailed discussion of maritime transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e914	The way in which we plan and work with regard to the national transport plan and its roll-out can be clearly discussed. What's important to me is to have close dialogue with the users. That's why I invited the ports, representatives of carriers and goods owners to a large meeting in the department where we addressed the challenges of getting more goods by sea. That's why I travel and visit many ports. Last time I was visiting Oslo Port, and I've been to Stavanger, to get a direct response to the challenges that are. That is also why I have visited several of the traffic stations, and I have visited the unloading stations, to get the full picture. If we print it out in a strategy, it probably doesn't matter to me. The most important thing is that we get all the recordings, so that when we're going to roll the national transport plan, we've got all the vision and can therefore respond well enough to the challenges that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e919	What is the advantage for all stakeholders, both users and politicians, is that when the strategy is reflected in a document, there is an opportunity to see what the government actually thinks, what strategy it adopts, and what instruments it will use. That's the obvious benefit. Does the Council not see that it will be useful for industry as such to produce a strategy paper? So to the unloading service: what can we wait for further treatment to respond to the clear desire of industry and users themselves, that the cost of the unloading service needs to be significantly reduced as an important tool, and an effective tool, to raise the competitiveness of maritime transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e926	I also feel confident that through the document that will be discussed in this Chamber – National Transport Plan – we will be able to express clarity in terms of instruments in relation to where we want to deal with transport policy at sea. Of course, a strategy paper we would like to consider writing, but a big message will give us the opportunity to discuss in this room. This could be both of these. The most important thing is the content in any case, and I will assure the representative that I will be able to find out in the national transport plan as well. With regard to the unloading service and the loosing efficiency project, which we have been working on for a long time, this is where we have introduced changes that will involve cost reductions, as I mentioned earlier. We're not done. Now we have a review where we are also investigating the possibility of establishing extended duty-free sailing corridors, which are combined with a system to separate traffic, just to look at a cost-saving element.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e933	The Council of State was in its intervention today at a number of key points in order to increase maritime transport in Norway. We think that's fine. We also think it is good that the Council of State has taken the initiative to meet with the industry in the department in order to do something more here. Then we see that there is so much consensus in the room here that there is a desire to get more over at sea, so if there is not a big message, we hope that there will be a strategy message at least, where the report that has been presented will be taken into account. In Trøndelag we are now working with a transport centre, and when the committee was visiting there in the fall, we were up in a sand roof in Melhus, which many of us who want to get something at sea, did not seem so right. Now I've heard that there are even greater forces that make this seem a very lucrative way to do it, precisely because you're plotting traffic on the road and on the railway. What does the Council of State intend to do to bring in an overall assessment of the situation in any way in the long term, so that we can get something on maritime traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e944	I noticed that the representative Hareide in his post was also on the question related to Stavanger Hafen – whether the same would have happened now as 15 years ago. The representative of Myraune here is showing the room for action, which at least illustrates what I am pointing out, that there are several actors who have to take responsibility. Local politicians, in the case of ports, in the case of carriers — at all. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is locally determined where to have its freight terminals. I have also registered that Melhus sails up as the most current one. If that's the result, at least it's not very forward-looking in my view. I really hope that they think a few years longer than what pays off right now. It's up to the local authorities to decide where to put it, but I'm sure it's possible to put in some arguments that they should at least think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e949	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e954	There is no doubt that we should get more goods across from road to sea, also for environmental reasons. A means of achieving this is to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. And then we're left with the goal. The national transport plan must contain concrete objectives and strategies for the transport of goods from road to sea, even from road to road, and the objectives must lead to something. Traffic hubs are important in this work, i.e. hub where the sea, land and runway meet. Kristiansand is such a node. Kristiansand port is Norway's fourth largest port, where the railway goes all the way down to the port area, in line with the road. But even though it sounds good, the infrastructure is not in place. Everything has to go through the densest city centre on bad roads, and it's not sustainable, either for the people who live in the city or for those who coordinate freight traffic. This is probably not the only port in Norway that has it this way. The level of taxation we have today is clear about reducing the use of maritime transport, and in these modern climates facilitating maritime transport should be a matter of course. The user payment for maritime transport is much higher than for other transport sectors, and if we continue to do so, we would rather increase the share of goods by road rather than sea. That's not how we want it, right? We know that energy consumption per tonne-kilometre is half that of maritime transport compared to road transport. Only this should make the red-green politicians want to take part in the proposal to take action to strengthen maritime transport – yes, that is. if they have any opinion on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e963	There is a lot of focus on fees, and I just want to show that they have been collected reduced by over 55 million. kr in the last two years, and changing the regulations on unemployment obligations means a reduction of almost 30 million. NOK in fees. The size of the fees and the arrangements are also assessed in each budget, and one has an ambition to make maritime transport more competitive through, among others. the charging policy. When the Progress Party, and especially Blackevik in its main post, is so concerned about bringing down the taxes on maritime transport, I perceive that it is because if a person reduces the taxes on maritime transport, so that the costs approach the same as when a truck driver travels, more will go by sea. And the party of progress is hailed by the actors who are driving this, because they think there are good things with less fees. But it's just that the Progress Party will also bring down the charges on trucks. The Progress Party will also build many more roads with many fields, which will give maritime transport even more competition. We want to bring down the taxes on maritime transport, but if one gets them down and at the same time has to bring them down on truck transport and create many more ways to run on trucks, then the imbalance will only get bigger. Then I want to come up with what the Council of State was also talking about, namely that it is not just the state that can provide more maritime transport via taxes and other means. The ports, and not least those that own the ports, the municipalities are often, also have a great responsibility, and the fleets and owners. In one of the rings we had, it turned out that in the interior of Oslo, there were almost as many container ports as there are in the whole Mediterranean. And when it is shown that very much goods go over the Svinesund, it has to come in to some ports further down there. There's something about the structure when it comes to the ports, which I thought those who own the ports should look something closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e972	I could not wait to hear the comments of the representative, Rommetveit. I hear he boasts homelessly that you've managed to get 55 million. kr i tax reduction. I don't think it's that much to hit my chest for – I think it's pretty small! But I also record that what the representative of Rommetvei is concerned about is trying to get the discussion off of what this is all about, namely all the fees that you charge for maritime transport, and that we, the Progress Party, are committed to doing something about and reducing. I record that the representative Rommetveit from the pulpit says he also wants to reduce these charges. Yes, the representative Rommetveit represents a party that sits in government, that has a majority, that can carry out exactly what they want. So if this government wants to make sure that maritime transport gets better framework conditions, there's only one thing to do: it's to make decisions in the government college, get to the Biggest and reduce the fees here in the Biggest. I want to challenge the representative Rommetveit: Get on the track! Join and do something! Vote for the proposals of the Progress Party, which are both about to put in place better framework conditions and follow up what the industry itself is concerned about! That is the whole background of the proposal for a representative. So it's the industry that's been reporting on the challenges they're facing, how they're moving more of the freight across the sea. I think that Rommetveit, the government and others should stop talking in party speeches about wanting to move transportation from road and track over to sea. We also want to do that, and we want to do something about the fee level. I think healthy competition is that you have more equal treatment. Thus, both maritime transport and road transport in the form of the road transport industry are a dairy cow for the state in relation to taxes. That's what we want to reduce – and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e982	The representative Rommetveit came up with criticism of the Progress Party because we as a party want better roads, and that we want a more efficient transport system for trailers in Norway – yes, of course we do. It should just be missing that you don't want a dynamic, efficient society to take care of that transport. But at the same time, we want a sea transport in Norway that is also effective. I guess there's nothing in this that conflicts with each other. Why should different modes of transport not be able to be organised in such a way that they actually have framework conditions that are conducive to efficiency and a good way to compete? What you experience from the government is, in fact, that, despite many good suggestions, you choose to ignore all the proposals. You are not even able to get the amount of goods you want from the road to the keel, and at the same time you vote down the suggestions you get on the table. This reminds me of a scout-and-go attitude, which no society enjoys in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e991	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The Council of State has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e994	I'm sorry I didn't use the computer technique, it's possible I was a little late in my deduction. I just want to nuance the debate a little bit. The fact that getting goods on the refrigerator is only about taxes is certainly not the case. As I said, I have had meetings with representatives of goods owners, carriers and ports. When I ask the product owners why they don't send more goods by sea, the answer is that it takes too long. Sending a product from Oslo to Tromsø takes so long that the product has become old before it comes out. The fact is that it is really quite reasonable to use the waterway for goods. So it varies a little bit whether it's national or international. I'm just asking that we nuance the debate a little. Of course, this is about the structure of the ports. The reason why it takes a long time is that the transport boats, the short sea shipping, have to enter too many ports to fill up the boats instead of going straight on the road. We still have to work to reduce costs. That's what we can do. But we also need to take the debate on the structure of ports. That's why we have tribal networks; that's why we have the designated ports. That means that we might have to prioritize other ports to collect the goods in a way that makes one get the efficiency of transport. But again, as I said in my post, and as the representative Rommetvei took up, we have reduced the fees, and we are going to continue to reduce the level of the fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1005	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3627]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1021	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1030	Once again, the Stortinget will deal with the matter of what to do with the German submarine U-864, which was lowered at the end of the war, and lies 2 nautical miles west of Fedje in Hordaland. The wreck is located in two parts between 145 and 165 metres deep, and it contains the dangerous load of 67 tonnes of mercury, which makes this case special. In January 2009, the government decided to lift the wreck. It was also followed up in the revised national budget in the same year, and a budget allocation for 2010. A total increase joined this and would have removed the U-864, which is the name of the boat – not least because people in the area are very concerned about their local environment, but also because the fishing industry is generally anxious about the reputation of Norwegian fishing and fishing industry. Today there is a ban on both anchoring, diving and fishing in an area of 500 meters around the wreck. So the matter has been dealt with several times, and last 31 May last year. Then the government cancelled the cancellation decision from the previous year, following a recommendation from a consultant company, Dovre Group, and TØI. The agreement with Mammoet Salvage was thus terminated. The government then recommended a new external quality assurance and a draft selection inquiry. The government has been informed that this work is in progress and that this quality assurance is expected to be clarified quite soon. It was actually suggested that in the government's revised national budget we would get new information about the matter. It's probably not that long before it's to be presented – just over Easter – so maybe we can even get a little leak from it today, what do I know? At least it would be good for Stortinget to get the information that has also been transferred to the government. The opposition disagreed with the government at the last time and wanted to conclude negotiations with Mammoet with a view to lifting the wreck of the summer that is ahead of us now, i.e. in 2011. The government's parties opposed this, but made it clear in several articles that the target was still a lifting of the wreck and cargo. I hope that today's debate shows that this is still on the table. We in the Right have also expressed this in our remarks, although we realize today that when a work is started according to the guidelines we have, with impact assessment and quality assurance, we have to wait for it. But we point out that we have not changed our view on the matter: the wreckage and the cargo should be lifted. We think the coast and the population deserve that. They have lived with this uncertainty long enough — and for too long, many will believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1041	In Stortinget's handling of Prop. 81 S for 2009-2010, the handling of the submarine U-864, was concluded on the basis of a comprehensive assessment that more clarification was required before taking a final position on the solution. The estate decided in June last year to stop it until the planned cancellation operation. This decision was taken on the basis that the external quality assurance concluded that the project was too risky. In the proposition, the government proposed to launch a draft currency and after that an external quality assurance. In line with the Stortinget's decision last June, the Coastal Agency carried out the concept evaluation, which was handed over to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in January. This concept evaluation is now for the quality assurance of Metier AS and Møreforsking Molde AS. These companies are qualified by the Ministry of Finance to carry out such quality assurance. When these processes are in progress, and also in accordance with what the Storting has agreed, I didn't think it would be right to break the two now by going before the Progress Party's proposal for a decision. The Coastal Authority sees in its overall assessment and recommendation that all three available options will provide the desired environmental effects if implementation is successful. However, the coastal site chooses to recommend the covering of wrecks and forureina bottom sediments based on the fact that they consider the option to be the least risky. In view of its recommendations, the Swedish Coastal Agency has placed a decisive emphasis on environmental risks, but they stress at the same time that other elements can also be analysed and emphasised before final decision on the choice of the concept. And the quality assurance that is now in progress has really felt that it is relevant to also analyse other aspects. In a letter to the Committee of State Councils on 21 March, we were informed that external consultants have identified the need to also assess an alternative where forureina sediment, in addition to the wreckage/mercury, is largely removed before covering the area. Furthermore, the consultants would like the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to assess the risk of the proposed coverage option from a long-term perspective, further. Consultancy may at times seem to be in most layers, but here I have to say, as I know the complexity of the matter, that it would be very reasonable and relevant for such analyses and distributions to be carried out. The fact that the consultants now ask the Swedish Coastal Agency to make further assessments shows that the external quality assurance system is correct, and it is a good example that it is of great value to have a new eye on the matter. It is precisely to ensure that the government, and in the next round the size, shall have the best basis on which to decide. It's here to make sure that we end up with the solution for the treatment of mercury pollution, so that both we and the generations that come after us can be sure that the sea is clean. Often, perhaps most of the time, it's the easiest thing to do. If the simple thing here is to say yes to the Progress Party's proposal, it is in my opinion not the best thing when it comes to getting the most secure solution for the environment. If someone wants to, it doesn't fit quickly, safely and cheaply. The mercury management attached to the U-864 will probably not be easy. She can't go as fast as we would like, and cheaply it won't be. Whatever solutions are chosen for the seventh and last time, it must at least be safe for humans and the environment, and it must be ensured that progress is speedy but defensive. The Government's decision to revoke has been taken. I have good faith that the quality assurance and the additional information that is now required will provide a basis for good solutions to deal with this dangerous mercury.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1062	A possible cancellation in 2012 – after an initial suspension from the Coastal Works in 2006 – I find it difficult to see as ‘fast’! It is also the case that we in the Progress Party are afraid that the new eyes being put on the case are looking for an alibi for cover. On several occasions, the Progress Party has tabled proposals for representatives on U-864, the submarine in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland with more than 60 tonnes of mercury on board. We started in 2007. As a result, the proposal for cover was stopped. The government carried out a major political reverse operation, ranging from cover-up to upliftment. From 2010 there is again a political turnaround from the Workers' Party, from the SV and from the Center Party. It began by ‘quality shaking’ the recovery operation given in open and international tendering to the world-leading recovery company Mammoet Salvage. This was done in 2010, when a small consulting firm with no competence in rescue tasks was given decisive influence on the project, so that the rescue was not carried out. At the turn of the year 2010/2011, the concept selection inquiry from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency came for the handling of U-864. Once again, cover has become an alternative – as in 2006 – together with the lifting of the submarine and the removal of mercury. In the period from spring 2007 to spring 2011, nothing has happened to either submarine or mercury cargo. Politically, it's been a lot of activity. Many promises have been made by the representatives of the government parties, including the Prime Minister. But both the mercury and the submarine are still at the bottom of the sea. In fact, both the Western and Norway dates back to 2006, to the point where the Coastal Plant investigated the case and concluded with coverage as the recommended method. The external quality assurance shall now be restored. On questions to the Council of State on what to do to ensure that those who are to carry out quality assurance this time actually have competence, or acquire competence in covering, raising the submarine and removing mercury, respectively, is the answer: nothing – nothing in the world. Well, the two companies that are used for external quality assurance are pre-qualified by the Ministry of Finance, but there are relatively few jobs of this type, and relatively few that have competence. If you are competent to ensure the quality of road installations and large-scale land-based construction projects in Norway, it is not without a doubt that you are competent to handle large, complex recovery operations. I record that the parties that voted in the past that Mammoet should be given the opportunity to carry out his mission do not go into the important issue, and that is a pity. For the Progress Party, it is close to believing that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs – and the Government – actually expects the conclusion to be reached. When one was willing to allow investigators without heavy competence to gain decisive influence in the previous round, we unfortunately have little reason to believe that one will do it differently in this round. For the Progress Party, the whole matter is unacceptable. For the Progress Party, it is important to lift the submarine and remove the mercury. For the Progress Party, it is urgent to resume preparations to implement the cancellation project. That is why we are today promoting proposals for lifting and removing. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote,
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1088	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1091	I would just like to make a brief comment from the Christian People's Party to the good report from the case-speaker Øyvind Halleraker. I only want to comment briefly on what the representative Blackevik mentioned in his article. The Christian People's Party – and so far the Right – participated in a proposal in this room that secured an uplift of the submarine. But we got the majority against us, and the majority, which consisted of the government party, said that instead of supporting our proposal, they started with an impact assessment, with quality assurance. We believe that this matter has been dealt with here relatively recently, that it is right to wait for just that work and the result of it. But in this room the state council has been very clear that the submarine should be raised. I want to refer to the answer from the Council of State on 26 May 2010, where she was very clear that the government is working fully for a lifting, when they think it's defensive. I hope that I can be the collective solution to which this debate also refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1100	Work on U-864 and dealing with the pollution from the mercury load is a demanding matter that the government takes very seriously. It is important that we get the mercury pollution managed so that it will not pose a danger to the environment and the generations that come after us. However, it is also important that, by implementing an action, we do not contribute to spreading mercury pollution to a larger area. It was precisely for environmental and risk reasons that last June the majority of the Stortinge joined the government's proposal to stop the planned cancellation operation. It was decided to launch a pilot study and then an external quality assurance, KSI. It contains the options zero option, coverage, lifting and an option where raising and covering are combined. By also including cover and an alternative where raising and covering are combined, the likelihood of remaining overall with a satisfactory alternative to dealing with mercury pollution will be increased. The coastal community was assigned to carry out the pilot study. The report was handed over to the Ministry on 14 January this year and is now undergoing external quality assurance in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance. As is known – and as mentioned earlier also today – the quality assurance of Metier and Møreforsking is carried out. And yes, these companies are prequalified to do such quality assurance and work on an independent basis. Of course, they have the opportunity to obtain the expert work that they feel they need in the job they do. Today's proposal asks that the submarine U-864 be lifted as soon as possible. I am pleased that the representatives from the Right and Christian People's Party now think it is right to await the result of the quality assurance that is being carried out. Through quality assurance, we will be even more confident that the professional recommendations on which we base our final decision are as good as possible. I believe that the quality assurance is clearly justified in the answer I gave on 21 March to questions from the representative Halleraker. This shows that the consultants want further assessments to be made beyond what is currently available in the draft selection inquiry. Among other things, the consultants have: identified need to consider an alternative whereby, in addition to the wreck, contaminated sediments are largely removed before covering the area with clean masses. The coastal works are now in the process of doing this. This shows that new eyes can make useful input and thus ensure that all relevant alternatives are evaluated. Now, it's probably not like government councils are the ones to ask questions in such debates. I guess we'd better answer that. But in this case, it might at least have been interesting to know which alternative proposers from the Progress Party now want to implement immediately. Do you wish to cancel the submarine and cover contaminated sediments, or do you wish to cancel the submarine and then remove contaminated sediments before covering? I am a follower of action, but necessary knowledge must first exist. The government will therefore wait until an external quality assurance decision has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1116	Just so it is clear: the right also supports, of course, the removal of contaminated sediments. I want to ask a question to the Council of State, and it is related to something she said last time the matter was in Stortinget, it was 31 May last year. Then she says: ‘I shall repeat once that the Government’s decision to lift is confirmed. It's not harder. It's repeated by the Prime Minister, it's repeated by me. It is perfectly clear that the government then has an objective of implementing its decision, which is a lifting.» Is that the decision of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1128	The Government has not changed its position on the matter. We stand firm on the decision that has been taken. I would like to repeat that once again: the Prime Minister has said it, I have said it. It is obvious that we are not just working for such a measure to be implemented, as was previously said by a representative here, but we have a goal of implementing the decisions taken. That always works the government out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1134	So we feel that some companies are being pre-qualified, while, for example, some companies are being pre-qualified. companies such as Veritas, Lloyd's and the world's largest salvage company, Mammoet Salvage, are not heard. Former coastal and fisheries minister Helga Pedersen turned to the issue of lifting the submarine and actually wanted to go in to raise the submarine. Did former Minister and Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party make a complete mistake in his assessment and in his wish to cancel? If she wasn't wrong, why do we still have an ongoing case that has gone over five years? With still planning, there will be six, seven, eight, nine and maybe ten years before we get a result and an answer from today's government. Yes, I hear that you want to be actionable, but ten years of preparation for getting an answer to one thing and getting one thing out of the world isn't exactly actionable, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1141	I will do the representative Sortevik's words in his previous posts to mine. He said it's "get a job of this kind". The representative of Sortevik is quite right about that. There is actually no mission of this kind carried out on this earth. So this is the first time. At least it gives a picture of the complexity. Then the representative Fredriksen will have to shake his head. But that's actually the case: here we have a wreck. We have many of that, but fortunately – I have to say – not the kind of cargo we are facing. The challenge is that there is not a whole submarine that can only be taken hold of and lifted up. No, it's divided, it's missing part of it. The cargo is in the sediments. This has not been completed in the past. That's why it's complicated. Then there was a large number of these companies that are set to quality assurance. No, they don't have detailed knowledge in all areas either, but where they lack it, they have the opportunity to get what they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1150	And then to the last one, that's just the point. What we experienced in the previous round was that TØI gained additional competence, a competence that actually didn't have much to do with raising tasks at sea. The father is that the same thing happens again. So my one question to the Council of State is still whether she wants to make sure that the two non-qualified consultants who are now going to carry out a so-called quality assurance are actually acquiring skills that can do something about such a complex task. It's complicated, but there's international competence, it's getting hold of, and it's picking up if you want. Then I hear the council answering that you're going to cancel. Equally full is the way to ensure quality coverage. What's the timetable? How long should these mercury bottles lie before they come up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1159	To the quality insurers and the question of whether I have assured myself that they are using the expertise that exists: in fact, I believe they are. Just the fact that the quality assurance companies now come up with new questions and ask for new investigations, at least for me, that they take this very seriously and investigate thoroughly and carefully. As I said in my post: The fact that new eyes are looking at this matter now, that they are asking questions and asking for the investigations they are now asking for, citizen, so that they at least acquire that competence. To the timetable: When quality assurances ask for further investigations, it obviously means that time has to be set aside. I want to come back and say more about the timetable in the revised national budget. I do not know exactly when the quality assurances will be completed, but I think it makes sense that they will be asked the questions they are asking for. Then we'll get back to how long it'll take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1168	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1173	I do not understand that the government will play rule with the consequences of waiting to lift submarine U-864. I note that the Council of State reinssures that the government is responsible for raising the submarine. Then it's a mystery to me that one also spends money on getting the submarine covered. Then one should focus on what's going on raising the submarine, and get it clear. One, in my opinion, has had plenty of time to solve the issues involved. It's also said that not so many people can do this. In it, as I understand it, there is at least someone who has the skills to do this. Then it must be possible to make a faster progress in this matter than has been the case in all these years. Now we're going to deal with a case after this case where you've been doing business almost since 1984. There are also indications that you might need to do more. I record that the Labour Party's representative says that it might be a good idea to get a new eye to look at the matter. Yes, it might be a good idea if you want to spend time on it, and don't want one to do anything within a reasonable time. I also record that, in other contexts, it is claimed, at least from the representative Lundtigen of the Central Party, that he should be remanded for the population. If that's the intention of the government, that members of the government party should be confined to the population, I don't believe a single person in this area, in the whole of the West, who doesn't have a clear view that this submarine must rise as fast as possible. Then I also register that the Council of State questioned what the Progress Party would actually do in this matter. Then I thought the Council of State should read it. It says clearly that one will ensure that the submarine U-864 is raised and that the mercury load is removed, as well as provide for the necessary after-work with the protection of the forureina seabed. I thought I was reasonably clear, and I hope that this happens before one comes so far that there might be nothing to raise, and that the forces in the sea have taken care of this in such a way that one cannot do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1202	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1211	This is a matter that we have discussed many times in this Chamber. There is now an adjustment from the Transport and Communications Committee of the Storting to the proposal from the Progress Party. There is no plurality drawing in the committee. The largest minority consists of the government party – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – which wants to add the proposal to the meeting book. Then there is a minority – the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party – who are stifling the proposal of the Advance Party on the construction of the City Tunnel. And it's a proposal from the Right, which also boasts the construction of the City Ship Tunnel, but then as a OPS project. From the mid-1980s, we worked actively for a tunnel between Moldefjorden and Kjødepollen on the north side of Stadhalv Island. The tunnel shall be 1,700 metres long and shall be capable of being used under all weather conditions. It will be the first ship tunnel in the world and it will increase safety at sea and reduce waiting time. The construction costs have been calculated at the top of $1.75. kr, and construction time is calculated to be five years. In the 2010–2019 National Transport Plan, the government proposes to grant 200 million. kr in the last part of the planning period of the City Tunnel. This is a project that, if it is to be realised, requires significant planning and funding. In the Storing Message, the government links a number of commitments to the funds, including among others. Recall that the government decides to proceed with the project. It is clear from the message of the project that the government will come back to Stortinget in its own way with a comprehensive assessment, but a concrete future plan was not outlined. The Christian People's Party said that time, and I still think this was too non-committal, even if we give honor and are happy that it was included in the national transport plan. But we thought it was too noncommittal. At that time, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left are tabling a proposal for the design of the City Tunnel in 2010 and for one to cancel the project as a OPS project. The Christian People's Party has several times advanced proposals in Stortinget that the City Tunnel should be built, and we follow it up today. The water around town is very difficult. A ship's tunnel has been in our hands for many years. Yes, there are now actually 18 distributions that lead to this project. I therefore believe that the City Tunnel should now be realized. It will be an important help to increase safety at sea. At the same time, such a tunnel could provide an additional boost to industry along the coast of the West. I'm disappointed in the advice that came from the Coastal Works' side not to build a Town Tunnel. I also find it difficult to understand the foundation of the Coastal Works. Here is one of the things you will see. with an announcement of weather forecasts showing that one is not in need of tunnel. But if there's anything we know, it's that the weather is going to get worse in time. Only on the basis of the climate challenges do we know that there will be more extreme weather, unfortunately. This proposal also refers to a large tunnel. There are plans for both small and large tunnels. But – I will be very clear on that: if a City Ship Tunnel is to be built, it must be a big tunnel. The proposal for a small tunnel will not give us the benefits we expect. Of course, costs will be higher with a large tunnel, but if we're going to start this project, there's no doubt that there's a big tunnel we're going in for. I realize today that the proposal from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party does not get any plurality. But I hope this is a matter that we will follow closely up. Not least, towards the next national transport plan, the City of Ship Tunnel will be a very important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1234	The location of the ship's tunnel has been mentioned in several major messages in recent years, and it is part of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In the context of the presentation of the 2008 budget, St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department, it was decided to initiate new arrangements for the City of the Tunnel. The background for the layout was Recordings by the governors of More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane, and one of the options should be a large tunnel, allowing the fast route and other vessels of corresponding dimensions to sail through. That's what the representative Hareide went in for instead. The coastal works were entrusted with the task, and the distribution also required external quality assurance of the project. This requirement is not something that has been discovered specifically for this project, but it applies to all large projects with a cost of more than 500 million. kr. The work on the last edition has taken a long time. The reason is that the previous draft report has not met all the requirements set in the quality assurance process. The Ministry has therefore placed leadership on this, precisely to ensure that all formal planning requirements have been complied with. A number of questions have been raised as to whether the Coastal Agency’s KVU report has included all relevant figures in the socio-economic analysis. I argued that these conditions were thoroughly reviewed and highlighted in the external quality assurance process that is currently taking place. NTP states that the project will be evaluated for any start at the end of the planning period, i.e. once after 2013. This is the first time a government has set up a tunnel. The government, and later the Storting, has seen funds for City Ship Tunnel in the second part of the planning period – 200 million. kr. It also states that there is a premise for starting up the project to be of sufficient social benefit. A tunnel through the city of Stadland has been distributed in several rounds in the 1990s and 2000s, and expectations along the coast to achieve this project have been, and are, great. I understand that. There is no doubt that there are several good reasons to build the City Tunnel. There is a strong focus on security along the way. In addition, it will be important for business when it comes to a more environmentally friendly transport of both people and goods, with reduced waiting time, increased safety and regularity. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government points out that it is a goal that freight traffic should be removed from the highway and across the sea and the track. The realization of the City Tunnel will thus help to remove a bottleneck along the coast. The KVU report is now quality assurance by two external companies, Holte Consulting and ECON. In the light of the concept evaluation and its quality assurance, the government shall, after an overall assessment, propose to the Storting which of the three options to choose. This may seem like a very cumbersome process, but such a large project must be based on well-processed facts. It is important to stress here that the work is routinely related to the processes associated with NTP, as they have previously been agreed. The national transport plan shall be revised by the rolling stock in 2013. Not long ago the transport budgets were presented with their distribution report. It attracts much of what needs to be the overall transport challenges in the next planning period. One of the main steps proposed here is to get more goods from the road to the sea and the track. Finally, I would like to stress that the Stortinget has the last word in this case, and it is we who are going to decide whether or not to build the City Tunnel, and also what dimension he is going to have. The present distribution from the Coastal Works is only one of the bases on which we are to build this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1257	There is a cross-political consensus that it would make sense to transfer a greater share of freight from road to sea, and this is also one of the objectives of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. However, there are some barriers to increased maritime transport that we, as politicians, can do something about. I myself represent Norway in Maritime Baltic Sea Cooperation, where we have a strong focus on precisely these issues. The State Sea is one of the most severe sea areas in Norway, where high seas with wave reflections from land provide difficult manoeuvring conditions. There is hardly a national weather forecast where City is not mentioned, and the Meteorological Institute has its own special warning with wave height, wave period and wind speed for the State Sea. If you build the City Tunnel, the ships release this weathery stretch, and it can mean lower transport costs and saving time. Such a tunnel has now been explored almost 20 times, and it is this tunnel that the Progress Party is calling for to be built in the proposal for a representative. A Joint Committee agrees that City Ship Tunnel will facilitate a better overall transport solution and lead to safer maritime transport along a particularly critical point on the coast. An overall committee agrees that such a tunnel will have a major impact on the increased transport of passengers and goods by sea. A Joint Committee agrees that maritime transport is an environmentally friendly alternative to road freight and that the City Tunnel will increase the safety of seafarers and be an important experience product in the context of travel life. However, the Committee does not agree on actually wanting to do anything, because of the other parties only the Christian People's Party supports the proposals of the Progress Party for the launch of City Ship Tunnel based on Alternative Large Tunnel as soon as possible. I am very pleased with this support, and the Christian People's Party and the committee leader have also shown commitment in other matters to the framework conditions of maritime transport. The government parties believe, however, that 20 years of investigation are not enough, and that even more investigation is now needed. The right has its own twist; they suggest that the government should use time and effort to create a new case about the City Tunnel as OPS. In the past, the Progress Party has made similar proposals, including: in the context of the national transport plan, but we believe that the endless range of investigations should now be completed. What is needed — after 20 years and almost the same number of investigations — is primarily action. If it is the case that more is to be determined in any case, the Progress Party believes that consideration should be given to the possibility of building a road tunnel with transverse shafts to the ship's tunnel for every 200 metres. Such an addition may bring enhanced socio-economic benefits because a road tunnel can act as a rescue tunnel in the event of a marine tunnel breakdown. In addition, such a road tunnel will replace two roads that today bind Northfjord and Sunnmøre together. However, let there be no doubt: we want to get started as soon as possible. I would like to address the Progress Party and the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1278	The representative, Inbjørg Vosskensen, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1281	The location of the ship's tunnel is one of the most spectacular transportation projects in this country. Firstly, it is the only ship tunnel in the world, and secondly, it is a transport project that has a great regional and national impact, both on land and at sea. The City of Ship Tunnel will facilitate safe maritime transport beyond one of the world's most dangerous seas and will provide easier and safer transport for business on both sides of the City Peninsula. And he wants to make it possible for an exciting region of activity between Ålesund and Florø. The location of the ship's tunnel will be a unique destination, which, together with other natural experiences in the region, will facilitate both value creation and industrial development. That's why Right believes that there's significant societal benefit in realising this important project. Right means it's important that the planning is now being carried out, and we refer to Right's alternative state budget where it's set of 200 million. kr for the preparation of a priority OPS project. Few commercial projects have had as many arrangements as the City Ship Tunnel. Most people thought that the planning phase was over when the concept evaluation to the Coastal Agency in 2007 recommended the government to build the City Ship Tunnel after a large tunnel profile between Moldefjorden and the Kjødepollen. There were many who thought that there was a clean order shop from the government's side when the Coast Guard concluded in 2011 that weather and wind were less challenging than before, that the boats had become more solid, and that on that background there was not as much need for the ship's tunnel as previous arrangements showed. One of the reasons for this recommendation was that there would be a negative social benefit of about one million people. Six billion. kr for the construction of the ship’s tunnel. There was a ramaskrik in the North-West when the Coast Guard came in 2011 with its turnaround operation. Therefore, it was very positive that SINTEF was assigned to carry out a critical review of the KVU from the Coastal Directorate. The conclusions were clearer. SINTEF found the negative cost to be 20 pst. lower than that observed in the KVU. This results in higher value added and reduced waiting costs. When it comes to traffic use, SINTEF has stressed the potential of the City Tunnel for labour market integration between the regions of the north and south of City. There is a growing maritime/marinth industry in Måløy, and the maritime/marine world-leading industry in Søre Sunnmøre will trigger an increase in labour market integration, thus increasing commuting. In addition, travel to the region's largest airport, Vigra, and leisure trips. When it comes to the non-priced consequences, there are many positive things that speak for the construction of the ship’s tunnel: fuel savings, reduced emissions and tourism. City ship tunnel will be an attraction that will both boost small boat tourism and land-based tourism. In addition, a ship’s tunnel will provide increased safety for seafarers, with a reduced risk of death and personal injury, as well as a lesser risk of pollution. If more goods are transferred from road to sea, this could lead to reduced traffic accidents with vehicle combinations on the roads. SINTEF concludes from pricing and non-priced consequences that it is likely that the City Tunnel will have a positive socio-economic net benefit and that it should therefore be built, contrary to what the KVU showed. In addition, there are several consequences that have still not been assessed and will build up under the positive conclusion. Right is very concerned about the comments made by the Progress Party that they will settle new solutions if the government party maintains that more is needed. This is a juicy invitation to the government party for extra releases, and it will be strongly warned against. On the right, it is also noted that the Christian People's Party, presented by the Progress Party, to withdraw the project from the National Transport Plan and to commit it as an own project, despite the fact that the leader of the Committee used an entire conference in Ålesund to tell us how important it is to ensure broad support for the project through the work on the revision of the NTP. Right has presented a proposal in Stortinget to remove VAT on ship tunnels. It will be an important contribution to the realization of the City Tunnel. The cost-benefit balance of the project will be dramatically improved, and it will reduce costs by over half a billion dollars. Right expect the other batches to be present when it is to be handled here in Stortinget. Right, want to build the City of the Ship Tunnel as a OPS project, and we think it's absolutely crucial for the progress of the project that the planning is advanced. On that basis, I present to the Right my proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1311	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1314	I take the floor only to give a brief explanation of vote, since we are not on the committee. As the rapporteur said, this is a matter which has been up in Stortinget several times, and the Left has been on a proposal for the construction of the City Ship Tunnel, which was also said by the case-rapporteur initially. The left has programmed City Ship Tunnel, so there is no doubt that this is a project that we want – and see the importance of – as quickly as possible. It is now inside the NTP, and we will of course follow closely the progress, so that it does not fall out of the NTP. The left will vote in favour of the Right proposal in the vote, namely to ask the government to present a case on the realization of the City Tunnel as a OPS project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1325	As several representatives have been involved, the issue of the City Tunnel has a long history. The case has been mentioned in several large-scale messages and propositions. There are also many plans and investigations. Now, however, I will not dwell on the history of the matter today. In 2007, it was decided to launch new investigations on the City Ship Tunnel. It is detailed in the St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008 under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The background for the new investigations is input from the rapporteurs of the counties of More and Romsdal and Sogn and Fjordane. The county rapporteurs asked for the re-exploration of the City Ship's Tunnel, taking into account the size and usefulness of a ship's tunnel. One of the exploration options is a ship’s tunnel of larger dimensions so that the high-speed route and other vessels of similar dimensions can pass through the tunnel. The investigation of the City Tunnel must be carried out through external quality assurance. It requires the State's quality assurance system for large investments. The external quality assurance is carried out by companies that are pre-qualified by the Ministry of Finance here as well. As regards the City Tunnel, the external quality assurance is carried out by Holte Consulting and ECON. As the proposers refer to, the Swedish Coastal Agency presented an investigation into the City of the Ship Tunnel in December 2007. Work on external quality assurance started in 2008. It turned out that this investigation did not satisfy all the requirements of such processes. Therefore, much of the investigation work had to be carried out again. On this basis, a new report has been prepared by the Swedish Coastal Agency, and it was handed over to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in January this year. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has forwarded the new report on external quality assurance. I have recorded that there have been some questions about the Coastal Authority's latest report, and whether it has included all relevant figures in the socio-economic analysis. I am also aware that alternative reports have been prepared, which have a different assessment of the socio-economic benefits. These are issues that will be examined in the current external quality assurance. The government will wait for the external quality assurance before we decide on the project. We do that to ensure that we have the best decision-making basis possible. It is expected that the quality assurance will be completed in mid-2011. This means that we are on track in relation to the time horizon set by the government in the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. The national transport plan indicates that any start will occur in the final part of the planning period. I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner when the quality assurance is available. I would also like to remind you that all other transport projects of this magnitude have been through the same type of external quality assurance before being submitted to the Stortinget through the national transport plan and budget proposals. I find it hard to see why the City Ship Tunnel should be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1346	There are two things I want to record. One is a quote from the KVU report: ‘The Ministry has been active in the investigation process and has led the investigation.’ What are the leaders of the department's investigation? So for community benefits and quality assurance. There are relatively few projects of this kind to gain experience from — in fact, very few. It is also true that what we know from the transport sector in Norway is that very many of the major projects would not actually be carried out if we were to base the somewhat square calculations on the benefits of society. Can we not also have a slightly wider perspective here than the somewhat square social economy accounting rules for social benefits often end up with, and ultimately have a political view of whether this is a useful project that is important and useful to build?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1358	For the work done in the Coastal Works: the various reports and the dialogues that have been between departments and coastal works on this issue, I have no exact knowledge of. I assume that it is not at least related to which questions to answer, and in what way. I haven't been in that kind of dialogue, but I assume that it's to make sure that one gets those answers, and that the width of the questions is big enough to give a good answer – not the content of the answer, but the process around it and the width and that bit. On the issue of social benefits, there is an interesting question. Let me say that if we are only to adopt projects – it is in the road sector or others – that are socially useful, there will be not many projects in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1365	Cost-benefit is an important part of the image when it relates to the realization of the City Tunnel, and we see that in the KVU was a negative cost-benefit used as an argument against the tunnel. Right has presented a proposal in Stortinget to remove VAT on ship tunnels. It would improve the situation radically for the City Ship Tunnel. I didn't hear the Council of State mention it in its statement, so my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State consider supporting Right's proposal to remove VAT on ship tunnels, so that it can also benefit City Ship Tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1370	Again, diet–benefit is a figure obtained through established criteria. I said in my previous answer that there would not be many transport projects that were realised here in the country if one were to only focus on cost-benefit. It would have been a few. Luckily, we have politicians who are looking at things bigger than just numbers. That would of course also be the starting point here. Of course, the cost-benefit considerations are also part of a total assessment. As regards VAT-related issues, I have to show that it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for it, so the question of VAT is asked to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1377	I agree very much with what the Council of State says, that we should have this project carried out, we need to look at the health of it and not just use diet-benefit considerations. I would also like to point out the SINTEF report – which I feel is a good and thorough work – that just shows the societal impact of this project. What I am busy about is progressing towards a national transport plan. The challenge now is that the distribution, quality assurance work, is now taking place quickly enough, so that we, as we are in the Transport and Communications Committee, can get this whole project together and have it assessed before we decide on the national transport plan for 2014-2023. Can the Council of State guarantee that the work will be completed so that we can make such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1384	As I said in my post, it is expected that the quality assurance will be completed in mid-2011. With the timetable we are now working on with the National Transport Plan, which is scheduled to be presented in 2013, it should be a realistic goal for the government to reach a conclusion on this matter, so that we continue to keep the timetable that we have said we should keep, and that we can conclude on the way forward in good time, so that the Committee can deal with this issue in a thorough and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1394	The City of the Ship Tunnel is a project that has drowned in political goodwill. The first year, in 1984, when we started working on this, they laughed at the project and made fun of us who at all could think that one would build a boat tunnel through the mountain, through the City Peninsula. After that time, all political parties, with the exception of SV at the beginning, have shown positive goodwill for the project. Yes, it is also said that this is a fantastic project that can put the West in a whole new situation, and that should be built as quickly as possible. The representative of Romemetveit was present in Ålesund when there was a conference on this project, where one also presented some elements that were not part of the Coastal Agency’s distribution, which showed that with very low estimates of the social benefits that could be derived from this project, the positive economy of society was in this project. That's to say that the community of Norway is thinking about a sheep building this project. Then it is shown that it is agreed that one should have quality assurance of the project. Yes, it was agreed many years ago. It was well agreed during the Bondevik government in its time, so there is a certain one about it for many years. Then my question is, why has a non-symbol because one has done this at a much earlier time, so that this was prepared? When, until the last distribution, only positive socio-economic benefits have been received in the project, I thought that one should have carried out that quality assurance much earlier, so that it was clear. At the County Council meeting of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeddarparti and the Centre Party of Sogn and Fjordane, they have adopted resolutions on the need for this project to be built. The central party again had a headline on its resolution that one had to build the City Ship Tunnel now. It was very important to get started now. Then I wonder: why doesn't the Center Party support its proposal, which is that one should start building now? A few words about side tunnel: We have two options available – one with side tunnel and one without. It turns out that binding provision of side tunnel costs almost no more than the other because one could benefit from a much better use with regard to the mass outsourcing of this project with two tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1407	It's not the first time I've been standing here and taking the word in connection with the City Tunnel. A few months ago, together with other representatives, I was present at the Great City Tunnel Conference held in Ålesund. It was a conference aimed at focusing on the concept evaluation that was recently presented by the Coastal Agency. When we were in Ålesund, he said. The transport and communication committee’s leader, Knut Arild Hareide, said that in this case it was important for a worker to get this project anchored in the further work on the national transport plan, which I fully agree with. It is therefore quite incomprehensible to me that the Christian People's Party now in the setting says that one should have an additional license to start this project in conjunction with the revised government budget for 2011. It is with respect to report unprofessionally from an otherwise serious party. Coastal expectations for realising this project are high, and they have not diminished since the concept selection process was launched. It's, I must say, a lot of frustration along the coast over that one feels that this lasted in time. I'm myself very busy following the timetables that we cross-politically are some of in the national transport plan. It should be well known that a tunnel will mean much to industry along the coast. This will increase security and reduce waiting times, thereby ensuring good governance and regularity. Today a lot goes with trailers, precisely because it weighs up to the disadvantages of rounding the unsafe State Sea, in all sorts of weather. With increased availability along the west coast, we will have a stronger and more rational region. The potential that lies in e.g. tourism-oriented business with this, to my mind, unique tunnel, is unbelievably large. I am pleased that there will be a strong focus on this matter from our side, and I expect that the timetable set in this case will now be kept. I hope that a review will review the elements of the Sintef report presented at the conference, the societal benefits of this project, and that they will be taken into account. Finally, I would like to stress the need for us to move forward in this matter in a way that benefits the project. I would like all parties to be able to gather on the progress and possibilities of the national transport plan to realise this unique project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1420	Since the question of diet/benefit analyses has been raised in this case, I think it is right to link a comment to that. We have discussed this issue several times in connection with road projects. If there's any place where it's really template-placed to use cost-benefit analyses according to the usual transport economy, it's got to be here. It's not that this project is being built because it's getting shorter distance, or there's other things that make you sail that way, but because it's getting more secure for the seafarers. This, in turn, is of great importance to the fishing fleet as for example: can be weathered on either side. It may have an impact on passenger traffic, with all passengers going to and from important tasks. None of these things are measured in a diet-benefit analysis. So it's like this project is relatively unique, even in Norwegian waters. There's not so many other places that can accommodate such a tunnel. It also makes it perfectly possible to apply such a method. So I'm glad the Council of State says that fortunately we have politicians who exercise discretion in such matters too, because we have to. Nevertheless, I would encourage the Council of State, when she goes into the work of the National Transport Plan, also from its department, to address this issue of getting some more accurate socio-economic analyses, which also measure what is really important for the project to be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1427	I take the floor because representatives Lødemel and Glüsth ask questions about the background to the Christian People's Party's assessment in this matter. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has certainly been the party that has had the yellow leadership when it comes to the City Tunnel. We've been in front. We have it in our party program, and we're very clear that we want to build the town ship's tunnel as soon as possible. But we don't have a plurality of Christian People's Party representatives in this room. That's why we have to work to ensure good alliances. Therefore, I believe that the realistic work on this will be closely linked to the next national transport plan. But it won't say that when we then get the chance to vote for what's our primary position, let that possibility go away from us. The representative Lødemel says: Are we willing to take this out of the NTP for a decision today? Yes, of course! If we had received a decision today for the City Ship Tunnel, there would be no need for it to be in the national transport plan. But the representative Lødemel is not part of the transport committee, and may not understand what the system is like in our committee. The Christian People's Party has been clear on this matter. In 2009, when we dealt with the National Transport Plan, we said that the government then submitted was too weak and non-compulsory. We still believe, when we see the soundness of this, that the first possibility of getting multiples in this room for the project will be at the next national transport plan. That is what I hope and believe after this debate here today. Because I feel that the political parties, special representatives of the Labour Party, have clearly shown that they are positive about the project, and that the Council of State was not reprehensible either. It gives me hope that we will secure a political plurality, and that is the goal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1444	The representative of Starheim called for the position of the Centre Party in relation to the City Tunnel. I really didn't think there was any great need to ask for the views of the Central Party on the matter. We've been very clear out, we've also signed, and we've been positive and expressed in relation to it. In order to cut down on speaking time, I can express myself in the following way: the representative Rommetveit and the Minister for Fisheries and Coast have made very clear what the government and government parties want in terms of progress in the matter, and to take the assessments related to the construction of the City Ship Tunnel in the rolling of the National Transport Plan. That's what the Center Party thinks is a good move forward. So I consider it the following way: I support the position in the matter, and then we take the debate when the national transport plan is to be rolled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1453	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1469	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1478	This case includes the construction of a 2.1 km new road including the 700 m long new Tverland bridge over Hopsundet. This will shorten the distance between Løding and Bodø by 2 km. In addition, road safety is significantly improved by the disappearance of the razed route at Hopshamran. The cross-border bridge replaces the interim bridge that was listed in 2009 and it will be an important measure to build a new bridge quickly because the ground in health there is such that the interim bridge itself says slowly but safely down to the ground. We're in a hurry to get started. That is why it is important that the decision is now taken. 2,8 km new walk and cycle path is built on the route with two subways for walking and cycling. This means that there will be a continuous foot-and-mouth route between the country and Bodø – a great deal for those who want to get on a bicycle to get to work, but also for those who want to use the fabulous nature of the area. A new bus pocket is also built on the route, which is important for collective solutions. Rv. 80 is one of the most trafficked highway sections we have in Northern Ireland. The road route is important for businesses and residents, not only in the Salten region and Bodø, but also as an entry path from E6 to Bodø and the ferry routes to Lofoten are important. This means that you have many people who use it, not least in the context of commercial transport. I think I have a lot of people on my team, if not everyone in the region, looking forward to plant start in the summer of 2011, and to completion and opening in the autumn of 2013. The project has a governance framework of 526 million. NOK 626 million and a cost framework. kr in 2011-krona. In line with local wishes and decisions, development shall be financed by a combination of State resources and tolls. The majority of the Committee points out that further work on the Road Package Salt Phase 2 requires special attention and strengthening of the collective offer. There is a need for good coordination of the Road Package Salt, the Collective Plan for Bodø and the development of rail in the region. I now see from the case studies that you submit to Bodø City Council, that you are very concerned about collective solutions in the urban package that you work with. In the case of railway measures in the area, St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, i.e. NTP 2010–2019, proposed to implement capacity-enhancing measures and assess station measures that open up further development of the Salt Pendant. This has been followed up by the implementation of track conversion and platform actions at Fauske station, further appropriations have been granted for the conversion of the freight terminal in Bodø, and the Railway Agency is working on plans for several new crossing tracks and the extension of an existing crossing track on the Bodø-Rognan route and the establishment of stops on the Twarf and Retan. I would like to stress, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, that it is important to make good progress in the planning of the new holding sites, and would like to ask for initiatives to be taken towards the Railway Agency and local authorities in order to ensure this. The possibility of increasing cross-rail capacity on the route is also important. Progress in this work is assessed in the context of the 2012 State budget. The local population has supported the case locally. It has been followed up by the county council, which has provided county guarantees for the necessary toll loans for the project. The majority of the Committee has followed up the local decision, both in the case of tolling arrangements and discount schemes using the AutoPASS chip. In the case of AutoPASS chips, I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Transport has been asked to look at the privacy challenges in fully automated toll stations, and to consider the possibility of an anonymous payment solution as a complement to today's AutoPASS system. The majority have also noticed that both the municipality and the county require further development of Rv. 80 through a second part of the Road Package Salt Phase 2. It is also evident that both state resources and toll revenue are assessed in the context of this. The majority also agree with the Ministry of Transport's proposal to raise the power limit contained in the proposal. With this, I recommend the warmest majority position in the case and congratulate Bodø and Nordland on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1506	During 2007, there was a significant decrease in Horse Health Brus. The bridge was the only entryway to Bodø by car. At the same time, the Vegvesenet registered movement and the possibility of slipping out of the road in Hopshamran, a few hundred meters further away on the rv. Eighty-eight. In addition, this route is highly exposed to irises in winter. It appears from the proposal that the existing Horse Health Bridge has been downgraded and closed for traffic and an interim bridge has been built for current traffic. It is true that an interim bridge was quickly built to ensure the entrance to the city. But the bride isn't just downgraded. It must be said to be declassified, since it is already torn and removed. For the inhabitants of Bodø and Salten, this is a joyous day, which the case-rapporteur also pointed out. That this project has led to a decision so quickly, and with the planned construction start in 2011 and completion in 2013, is important for the whole city and region. The risk that the county capital will lose the road link with the outside world is not an acceptable situation over time. As a former member of the Bodø City Council, and now as a representative of big business, I find it appropriate to express my gratitude for the work and goodwill shown by the road authorities with the Minister of Transport in charge of finding a solution to the situation quickly and smoothly. The section on which we adopt the financing solution is also included as part of the Road Package Salt Part 2 or City Package Bodø, which it is also named. However, the sub-area is covered to have safe access to the second largest city in North Norway. Today, by chance, the City Council in Bodø also deals with the concept selection inquiry for Rv. 80 Løding–Bodø centre, or City pack Bodø, of which the new Tverland Bru is part. It is essential that we be able to secure the city that is the traffic hub of the Salten and Nordland regions, modern transport facilities. Bodø is, along with just a handful of other Nordic municipalities, a growing municipality. The whole focus of the rationale for developing transport solutions is the relatively high accident rate and environmental considerations. So we know that as always there is a discussion about financing such road projects. For the representatives of the Progress Party, the fight against tolls and all their beings is one of the most important things they spend time on. This is the case here at Stortinget, and so is local – and Bodø is no exception. The challenges underlying the Urban Package Bodø, which the Stortinget will hopefully face in the spring of 2012, have been thoroughly debated in public space in the last ten years. Among other things, the question of tolls has been made, or tried, an important issue in the local election campaign both in 2003 and 2007. Here it says in my script that I can please the President – and when I see who is presiding, I am absolutely sure that the President shares my joy – that the people in Bodø have still chosen to give a majority to those parties who want to develop the transport solutions in Bodø, and who realize that the drivers in Bodø and Salt must also contribute their own. You don't get all the money transferred from the community and the state. Local contributions must also be made. The solution we are discussing today, which will underpin the whole of the Urban Package Bodø, also has a significant focus on environmental solutions and public transport. In concrete terms, new cross-border bridges with routes of administration will contribute to better local environmental solutions for the inhabitants of the area. In addition, for the urban package as a whole, it will be important to implement measures and priorities that increase the use of public transport. This could be done, for example, by: means the prioritisation of the bus in traffic and the upgrading of train solutions for local traffic. I am very pleased with the rapporteur's emphasis on the need to have a great deal of attention on this when you get back to the full package. Equally important, it will be to look at other aspects of the further development of the city. It is about compact urban development in terms of land, both by using non-disposable urban areas and by getting a densification of already developed areas. Economic instruments to reduce the use of cars will be important. These include: assessing the appropriate design of parking provisions and the use of charges to limit unnecessary driving. I share the honourable Member's satisfaction that the Stortinget today ensures that the capital of Nordland is given a safe and modern access route. I look forward to running over the new bridge in 2013 without being afraid to get into the sea or get ice lumps in my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1527	I would like to point out that the committee is unanimous in that respect. 80 is one of the most trafficked national road sections in Northern Ireland. The road section is important not only for industry and the inhabitants of the Salten region. It is also important as an E6 to Bodø and the ferry routes to the Moskenes, Værøy and Røst, not only for Northernland but far beyond the county. But here also ends the consensus. The fact that the Progress Party is opposed to road development toll financing is a well-known matter. We do have more than enough taxes and taxes in Norway as it is, and we do well without more. I guess you'd think the state has it going to be okay, or is it maybe that it's bad to have salt in the food there in the farm? The major disagreement in this expansion concerns the estimate related to ÅDT, annual traffic. Although the Right will also consider a four-field road on the bridge section, they end up with their assessment and nothing more. If there is something this hall should have taken far more seriously, it is precisely the estimates that are in place for ÅDT. There is an expected ÅDT of 8,600 passing vehicles in 2013, i.e. the same estimate that was used in 2008. Can this lead to correctness? If we read the Evening Post of Monday 11 April, we see that it says the following: ‘The Road Directorate has repeatedly presented traffic figures for new roads that they themselves knew were too low. This made roads cheaper but not adapted to real traffic volumes.’ Ergo has been a real political desire over time to build undersized road sections that will not be adapted to traffic volumes. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the ÅDT used here – from 2008 – could not be correct in 2013 by introducing a new road. Figures from previous road projects support the views of the Progress Party in this matter. Then we should build the four-field road on the entire road section, and not just assess it for the bridge project, as the right one says. Reference may be made to a number of projects where the estimated ÅDT has been more than doubled in 20 years. SINTEF carried out such an evaluation in 2009 and concludes that: ‘A common feature of these projects is that the actual traffic development on the main road in the first five years has been significantly greater than expected at the time of allocation.’ Then we begin to approach the core of the matter: it is actually expected that the ÅDT will far exceed 12,000 during the life of the bridge or route, which is then estimated to be 20 years. Should the bridge only be there for 20 years? The question has to be: do we dimension and build the road and bridge project according to yesterday's needs, or is it adapted to a real amount of traffic for the future? If we build according to yesterday's needs, which the Progress Party believes is being done on this matter and too often, it may not be so strange that Sweden is able to reduce the number of traffic deaths by almost 43 pst. and Denmark with 33 pst. – against Norway’s reduction of less than 10 pst. There is no doubt that our roads that are not adapted to the volume of traffic for which they are built are a major cause – for several, of course – of accidents, not least when we know that building four-field roads is the safest way to avoid front-to-front collisions and fatal accidents. I take up the proposal from the Progress Party to complete the route, but with four-field roads on the whole route.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1555	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1558	I could start by commenting on Fredriksen's little outcome to the Right just now. I'll do it during my post, because what he said, it's not true. Anyone who can read the inbox can read it in the notes. This project is very important for people in Salten and the region of Bodø. On the right, this setting supports decisions, which are entitled to raise a loan, to collect tolls and to fire funds. Just to add a little comment: it is, however, a cross of thought for us that the county must guarantee the borrowings of a project that is state-owned. Especially after we have transferred a lot of our roads to the county councils and have left a relatively modest number of kilometres of highways, I think there is reason to review this system. So we support the setting, but we don't support the solutions that are chosen. Nor do we have reason for this kind of thing. That's not what we're invited to, really. I say this because in another case, where we were also critical of the solution when the case was dealt with, it turned out that our concerns later turned out to be justified. Also there we claimed our views in the comments, but voted in favour of the case and what we were invited to think about, namely the toll system. That's also what we're doing here. We in the Right believe that we see more clearly and clearly that we are planning and building for the past on the road side in Norway, with careful traffic forecasts. In the last few days, the Road Directorate has also confirmed that it is used for conservative forecasts of traffic trends — in retrospect, as has been said by the Directorate of Roads. When the road is finished, the standard is already too low in relation to traffic and in fact also in relation to tunnel requirements and the number of vehicles per day. Then I have to make it clear that, unlike what the representative Fredriksen said, we go into our comments to build the four-field road on the entire route. We don't have that as a decision, but we say very clearly, explicitly, that we want four-field roads on the whole route. We think it will prove to be a sensible and forward-looking solution in a project like this, where it will also be a good traffic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1571	In these days there are always some who say that I have worked day and night to get my will. I cannot say that I have necessarily done so in this matter, but at least I have not received my will. I would rather have had a two-field bridge and worked for a long time for it, but I finally had to give myself for the hard-boiled overpower of the government. The starting point for SV was that we think that the Bodø area, the transverse region, and local politicians do not take this seriously with public transport. Now we also heard Right, which yesterday was out with a difficult collective package – now it has to be invested collectively, now it has to end on motorway construction, etc. Yes, it sounded like this two days ago, but today we heard how the pipe actually sounded. Because it's Ole Brumm-plus; one should actually facilitate more car traffic in the urban areas and not do it like that two days ago. So the policy is strange: that one in the Right can't stand on his position for more than two days, it surprises me. SV's solution was simply that we have to build up the railway, we have to put in place a train station in the transverse region, we have to make sure that the Salt pendulum, which is very popular, is used more. Then it helps to facilitate increased traffic, but is not the solution the area needs. Then the Bodø area should also deliberately focus on a policy that is in the climate agreement, simply to reduce car traffic. Then one will be able to enter the reward system for increasing public transport. We don't do that here today. But what we're doing, especially from the red-green side of the game, is putting the leads for future solutions, connecting to the train station in the transverse region, and getting more transport on the environment-friendly, climate-friendly, train. It will come back to later, by budget and revised budget. Then we expect that our solution, which is the most forward-looking and climate-friendly, will come to justice. Always when there are toll debates, these are the ones that drive double accounting. So it's like one of the Biggest is against tolls. One talks about it, one proclaims it, and one says it over and over and over and wondering a lot of voters to think it's actually true. But then it turns out that when you're out in the practical, political reality, you're one for, because you don't have any other options. We can see that in Oslo, where the Progress Party raids and highway robbers the caristas that only it – in order to develop public transport in Oslo. One can see it in the progress party-driven Os, where Søviknes is standing outside the toll station and sank money from the billiards running past. One can also see it in other municipalities where the Progress Party has power. It's exciting if there's going to be a blue-blue plural, to see how hard the Progress Party is going to run right here in relation to not paying tolls, but one should actually clear in own houses before a jaw on the Right and on the other. SV is against many of the toll projects, so we don't want to get tolls. But it's going to be tolls, because one local wants the different solutions. But the Progress Party should say that the policy they stand for here stands for local, but it does not do so in practical policy. So one could also think, when one had the budgetary power, as one had with the Bondevik government twice, that a broadcast out a very corps of people who were to tear down the bombs, because once the Progress Party has got power, they can run around and tear them down. But they didn't tear down a bomb, on the contrary: several bombs were built when they had power. So here's an accounting that doesn't hold a goal, and that account is trying to hide it from its voters. That's what I thought was unfortunate. A quadruple bridge is now being built that will probably lead to a quadruple road in the long run, but we want a strong focus on the collective solutions in the transverse. We've seen something about it in this proposition. Now it's just that we follow it in the budgets ahead, so we get a proper collective effort in the Bodø area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1588	The President is not quite sure whether it is so parliamentary to talk about local politicians as to drive drivers, but apart from that: next speaker is the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1591	I've learned from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1596	I am pleased that the Stortinget today will agree to the financing and expansion of Rv. 80 on the route Løding-Vikan in Nordland. The extension is extended in Northern Ireland, especially among the daily commuters between Bodø and the Twarf. There's a queue here. Rv. 80 is the main entry point to Bodø, and it would only be missing if the largest city in the Nordic region was not better connected to E6. The cross-border bridge was downgraded and closed in 2009, with a temporary solution with interim bridge over Hopsfjorden. The project covers the construction of about 2.1 km of new road. This is included in the new Tverlandsbrua, which will replace the interim bridge. The bridge goes between Løding, east of Hopsfjorden, and to Vikan, west of the fjord. The road is paved with two fields on both sides of the fjord, but the bridge shall have four fields and a mid pull. New Brua, with access routes, will map the road between Løding and Bodø about 2 km away and remove a raspberry stretch at Hopshamran. A continuous walk and cycle path will be built from the Twarf to the Bodø Centre. The steering frame is already thoroughly presented by the case manager. She's at 526 million. NOK 629 million and a cost framework. kr. Of these, road users will pay about 310 million. Tolls. Construction starts in summer 2011 and opening for traffic late in 2013. It is an extension mentioned both in the national transport plan and in the budget proposal for 2011. It's an extension where one of them has always focused more on public transport solutions. Collective supply in Salt should be strengthened. One has to see the Salt Package in conjunction with the Bodø collective plan and the development of the railway in the region. Increased capacity and supply are necessary to increase the collective dimension. The configuration and discussion show that all games have some work to do with building this useful project. The progress batch indicates that they will not advance the funds to start the expansion now - the state will cover the full cost. I attach great importance to the fact that there are local policy decisions on speeding up here. Bodø Municipality and County Municipality want advance and a quick start of the project. The fact that the Progress Party is not satisfied with such a pragmatic solution to get the project going quickly is a demonstration in this context in relation to the plurality, which I think people will notice locally. The size decision today states that the Ministry of Transport’s limitation period for advance payments in 2011 shall be raised to 4.7 billion. kr. Advances are refunded by the government without compensation for interest or increase in price — that is, some form of interest-free loans. The background is that a toll-free advance has not yet been calculated against the limit of powers, only advance payments made by municipalities, county councils, businesses and others. In order to obtain a more transparent system, practices were changed from December 2010 onwards, so that all types of advances are calculated at the limit of powers. I am now congratulating both residents and people in the cross country on the decision to roll and on the bridge and the road they will get in 2013. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Rapid Treatment and the Storting for a forward-looking decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1617	I hear the Council of State calls for everyone to be satisfied with toll financing, also locally. I guess that's something that can be discussed. But I want to go back to ÅDT. Already in 2010, if we look at rv. 80 in Hope -- that's the closest thing we're going to compare with traffic here -- they had an ÅDT in June of over 10,000. We see that in the period 2002–2010 there has been an increase in traffic passages of around 15–16 pst. This means that already in 2013 — for a few months — you can be up to 12,000. Can the Council of State guarantee that this route is dimensioned for the future, so that you do not get up in the situation that the volume of traffic is not adapted to the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1626	The most important thing for me now in this matter is to get started building a new bridge and a bridge that stands for the future. That's what we've been given. So, for the annuals, which means we're going to build today with two fields. So the traffic development on this route may mean that the road has to expand to four fields long before the bridge's life span is out. Brua's life span is estimated at about 80 years. To build a bridge with two fields and later extended to four, I did not think that was particularly rational. But to bet on a road with two fields here and with significant more pressure on collective action in the future may prove to be forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1633	All forecasts of daily traffic have been shown to be underestimated. The Ministry today makes a proposal that indicates that traffic in 2013 is actually going to decline compared to what is the pattern today. Then you give an answer to the question from the previous replicator as if collective solutions are going to solve the challenges. There have been six–seven years to address this challenge. My question is, what comes from being able to underestimate the daily traffic, as you do in this case, and from that kind of planning you are not able to take account of the four-field road on both sides of the bridge? In a review - a word she knows very well - will the Council of State, with the background of correct annual days, only aim to plan for a four-field road on both sides of the bridge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1640	For the first time, I understand that the Right, in the same way as me, is busy with what was described in the Evening Post, which was related to the Road Directorate's estimate of annual traffic. Very many of the copies there are from 10-20 years back in time. The numbers that are leading here are the best estimate we can show. In addition, we have to assume that we have to make an effort, not to shift all traffic over to collective, but to get to both. One of the questions that has now been asked is whether to build a bridge with two fields. I thought that was completely wrong. I am glad that there is support for it today, and then you will see the development, whether one comes with four fields on the road later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1647	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1652	This is an important project, but it is a sad under-dimension and a terrible expensive financing. This gives me reason to remind the representative of Langeland that, in the NTP for 2006-2015, the Progress Party and the SV were together to increase the state funding for road construction by 10 billion. kr – so when the political will is there, it is fully possible to do so. It's the government that has the money, and it's the government that has the power. In fact, the government of Stortinget has to approve the use of additional transport taxes, and that is why we have this matter. Tax is called in political neo-local contributions – deplorable when we know that the oil fund is over 3,000 billion. kr. This project is Project No. 11 in this period. When the majority decides to use local taxes, additional transport taxes, on this project, rather than full state funding, the total financing bill for the eleven toll financing projects we have had so far in this period is nearly 16 billion. kr. Of the nearly 16 billion. kr is the toll bill of nearly 7 billion. kr – that is 55 pst. But in addition, a bill is written out, so that the drivers also have to pay the financing costs and the collection costs, and that bill is almost 6 billion. kr. To invest almost 16 billion. The drivers are required to pay almost 15 billion kroner. To put it another way, a 16-billion-billion-dollar investment framework. kr actually costs over 21 billion. So it's a pay supplement that's forced on the drivers, and I remind you that the oil fund is 3,000 billion. kr. So it's a payoff supplement that's forced on the local drivers, almost 6 billion. kr until now during this period. I'm afraid it'll be more, and that's regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1661	Since I am not a member of the Transport Committee, I am going to move very carefully to avoid boredom. I'll at least try. I agree with the case rapporteur that it is a very positive and happy day. I also agree with the main points of both the case rapporteur and the representative Sivertsen of the Workers' Party, who illustrated the importance of improving traffic solutions. Rv. 80 is probably not just Nordland's most trafficked highway – as far as I know, North Norway is the most trafficked. What is the point of appeal on my part is that you are not able to calculate a robust and credible annual traffic for which it is possible to plan for future solutions on this road section. It also has a frequency of accidents that is quite familiar and that there is nothing but correct statistics around it. It was supposed to say that when you take the very positive step of building a four-field bridge, you should consider doing the same thing when it comes to the road section on both sides. But I choose to perceive that the Council of State has a positive approach to this issue. If – as the Council of State was in the change of line – annual daily traffic becomes as large as at least the opposition parties have indicated today, she will look at it, and I choose to interpret it positively. One cannot act as if the collective solutions are already in place, as the representative Langeland – who is fighting for a two-field traffic solution too. You haven't bothered to do so many grips since 2005 to get the alternative solutions in place, so they're not here today either. As far as I have local experience from, there are actually many SVs who even drive a car in the Salt region. This is a route of traffic which has a high accident load, which significantly increases the daily traffic of the year and which would have deserved to have a planning height of four fields in the future. I hope then, on the basis of what others have been about, that this will be incorporated into future planning. I understand fine from the Advancement Party to the Right. In this context, it is worth noting that the solution today is in line with local needs. It happens very, very quickly, and it has been a major point from the Right that this road section and this solution were to be completed in 2013. With the solution of the Advance Party, I think we had to see 20–30–40 years to come in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1674	I'm going to join at least the beginning of Ivar Kristiansen' posts. When you don't sit on this committee, you should really slow down a little bit. But as a northerner, I think it was important to say a few words. I've been so lucky that I've been in this exciting committee. I sat there in 2004, when the salt package was put into the national transport plan. There were three major projects that were very important to be submitted at the time – it was the Salt Package, it was the Hålogalandsbrua, and it was the Helgelands package. There were three major projects in Northern Ireland, which had priority order, but I'm not going to go into that here. So it was the Bondevik II government that put forward the national transport plan. Then I just have to remind you – because I hear the debate from time to time – that the money is very loose at the opposition in many contexts, and perhaps especially at the Progress Party. So it was actually like we added to the national transport plan -- just to remind you of some things -- by 2 billion. kr during that 10-year period. Then it was my good friend in the Christian People's Party from Nordland, Jan Sahl, who expressed that these were air billions, it was populism. Since then, we've only increased these things in relation to the situation that we are today. I just wanted to remind you a little bit about it, maybe also to have a slightly different angle of incidence on what I'm going to say. This day we had a meeting with Vegvesen in the north, among others. with Torbjørn Naimak, who had met with the North Norway bench. If you take the break – and I hope so – look at the map of what's going to happen now, among other things. in Northern Norway with those road projects, etc., it is formidable. Then it is not useful to spend the money we have on tax bills, but you also have to spend it on some plans and some roads. Then it's important that this government has made the effort in this context. So we're running – not just in North Norway, but we're running all over the country. We're trying to follow as best we can. So another thing that I also want to pay tribute to. You say it's a happy day in Bodø and in the area there. No, it's a happy day in Northern and North Norway, because these are important things for our county capital. Then it is important to look at the development that has been in Bodø until now. It's a population development, and it's still growing. So I would also like to remind you that it is very happy now that Bodø has received a university. It will probably explode too, and the city will probably be expanded by getting more students to Bodø. This dimension is important to bring with it. It is also the case that, in the long term, it is important to get more people going on public transport and the agenda train, because it is very good for commuting. So you have to have both - and here. I am very pleased that many have taken hold of this, and that the Council of State has now put down its feet to get ahead of it. We are very pleased about that in Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1689	Once again, we are dealing with an important issue in connection with the transport promise that the red-green government is now implementing across the country. Today, the Nordic countries are able to enjoy the development of RV. 80 Løding–Vikan i Bodø kommune. But in a familiar way, the Progress Party is hammering off the funding arrangements. Let me underline first: investment in the national road network is a state responsibility, and considerable funding is used to finance the roads. But there are great needs and many desires. Most people want as fast an expansion as possible, including in this case. Many people want better roads, including: in the interests of business, and at the same time have a fiscal policy that benefits business, and it is miles from the message of the Progress Party to draw money from the oil fund. It is important that government budgets do not send interest and exchange rates to weather and the competitiveness of the export industry in the opposite direction, which in turn will result in unemployment. It is not possible to meet all the wishes and demands of one or two state budgets, but by using the option we have through the toll financing, we get a lot of money. In many places, there is great local commitment to be included in this fissure layer, which allows the development of a number of projects to be carried out, and also in the ranks of the Progress Party. Following the attitude of the Progress Party on roads and tolls is a bit of a clever journey. The removal of all toll stations is a high priority. It is proposed in the context of new aging every year. In 2011, the price tag was 23.5 billion. kr. In addition, they will reduce petrol and diesel taxes and remove the new car charge. This is going to be tens of billions of dollars, and this before they've built a single new meter of roadway. Thus, the highest priority list in the party is something that does not benefit road safety, which does not contribute to the development of districts and communities, which are not at the top of the business list, and which is definitely not an additional use of oil money as an investment in future value creation, but which only allows Norwegian drivers to spend a few more dollars on other private consumption. In my opinion, the local party politicians who are in favour of this have got the point, as opposed to their colleagues in this Chamber. Finally, the Progress Party often tries – strangely not today – to present what financing roads via bombs is a strange phenomenon. If I had had more time now, I would have rammed up every country in the world where tolls are in use. But I just want to mention that according to the list of toll companies that are members of the International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association, it is used in 32 countries in Europe. We find it in Asia, the United States, South America, Africa and Australia. I just mentioned that in the United States, money from toll stations is also used to finance public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1702	It was almost a little great to hear the previous speeches. Instead of having a discussion about the challenges faced in the transport sector, I hear an explanation of why there are tolls in this country here. I think you should bear in mind that every month this year you take in approx. 60 B.C.E. kr more in oil revenue than had been foreseen when the 2011 government budget was adopted. That means that all the tolls that we're going to charge this year have been taken into account in a month's extra revenue on our oil revenues. So it sounds like the Progress Party has some other money than the rest of this big deal. We don't have any other money, but we spend the money in a different way, and we actually believe that investing in infrastructure gives us better conditions of competition for our business. It makes sure the accidents go down. This means saving money on accident costs, and business gets better conditions of competition and can pay what they have to pay in taxes and taxes instead of paying a lot of it in tolls, as you are doing now. So it's always fun to listen to the representative Langeland. First, he talks about accounting, and then he should at least deal with his own accounting in his own party, and what to do there. Because I think it's great to hear the representative of Langeland. He'd rather not build roads. But if you're around the country listening to his own party traps, they'll both build roads, and they'll do it without tolls. So bookkeeping goes a lot of ways. Then I think the representative Ivar Kristiansen had a clever approach to the problem with the full four-field road on the entire route. He says, "We're for it, but we're against it." It doesn't help to say that you're writing about it in the notes. It's actually the decisions you make in this room, which determine whether it's going to be a four-field road or not – not what you've written in a note. Unlike Ivar Kristiansen, the Advance Party does not want to wait 30 years. We don't have to wait 30 years. That the Right needs 30 years to find the money is the Right problem. The progress party is able to find the money, and we have proposed it and will propose it. We're busy building infrastructure, and we're going to do it without tolls. When we see how much money this state spends every month on extra income, we have a great opportunity to take the state responsibility and build infrastructure without the use of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1714	It is not that someone in the Progress Party has expected representatives from the Workers' Party to understand our programme and our policy. I assume that they have more than enough to understand their own program and their own position, because very often it is such that it is yes to no and no to yes. We experience that in this Chamber here on a case-by-case basis today – many good proposals which unfortunately are voted down, but which are initially agreed upon. Then it becomes a little yes to no and no to yes. The representative streamed the talk about the air billions of the Progress Party. Yes, there is no doubt that we have a much more offensive road policy than the Workers' Party. But the Progress Party has also not decided to use 450 to 500 billion. kr to lightning train. It's serious about a government party. So in other words, it's not what's being said, which is serious, but who it comes from, who decides the seriousness. Instead of shutting down the Progress Party because we want and want better road structure solutions for Bodø and Nordland, the representative Stroem should also give praise to the Progress Party because at least there is one party building roads for the future in Norway, and which does so not least in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1721	Instead of rejoicing that money is being allocated and spent on the transport sector as never before, and launching a lot of new projects, the Progress Party as usual manages to make this a problem. In every debate we have here in the Chamber, one, at least in our opinion, spends too much time on the toll discussion. It's about again and again and hacking into the record. I would just like to say to Mr Henriksen that it is not difficult to understand the policy of the Progress Party. It is simple and populist, and it has dramatic consequences for most people. It's not least putting the economy at risk, and it's affecting most people, who get the bill. We saw that through the financial crisis. Countries that did not order the economy, countries that used too much — who have received the bill in terms of unemployment, high interest rates, etc.? I really think we should be very happy that we have the economy, that we have systems, and that we have a fair tax system in this country. It brings me to what is also a problem with the policy of the Progress Party; that it is really the Progress Party that is the tolling party in Norway. Because when one sees all that the Advance Party will privatise and introduce excesses in the long term, the consequence of that kind of policy becomes much more serious than a few dollars in bombs on the roads. If you have to pay for the peculiarities of health, education, etc., as we see in the rest of the world where the market librarians are in control, then there's really danger to most people, and it's a completely different society, and we don't want that. Then tolls on the roads become a small trifle.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1730	Here was the matter of seriousness, and then let me just, just to keep track of the books, remind you that when it comes to lightning, it's set of 50 million. kr for a calculation of six sections. Then the decisions will be taken in connection with a new big message, i.e. a new national transport plan, in the spring of 2013. That is to say, as I see it, it is not particularly serious – it is quite unprofessional – at this point to put 450-500 billion. kr against the permissions of other traffic. We'll be able to do these priorities at a later stage. What is now important is that we realize the projects that are part of the national transport plan. When we get to December, it's my hope that we can count up nearly 30 new projects in two years, and then it's important that we make one for one of these decisions. So today it's going to apply to rv. Eighty-eight. So I think there's someone who's talking a little bit when we're talking about seasonal traffic. Because what's in the proposition is not numbers that we've created for ourselves in the Ministry of Transport to make this look as good as possible. It is the State Road Service's forecasts of annual traffic in the year of opening, of 8,600 – an increase of 1-2 pst. Then a few years before one comes when the requirement that we follow when we build a quadruple road, which is 15 000 in a later article, see at 9 p.m. 14:38:11. And then I just want to remind you in the end, when it's about what happens every month, that we're now running a new asphalt season. 1000 new kilometres of asphalt shall be rolled out. Maintenance and renewal are carried out every day, and every day work is done on projects that have already been started. It's a big aftertaste, and it's a very need. Many are undone, but there are actually historically many improvements every month.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1742	First, to the representative Freddy de Ruiter of the Workers' Party. He's once again trying to create a delusion that the solutions of the Advance Party in the area of health and care mean that you have to have private ones, and that means that you have to pay prowess, and the terrible system you have in the United States and elsewhere. Then I think actually he hasn't read the program in these areas. So I would encourage the representative to read the program to see what actually stands there. It says that it is the state that is going to finance the health service in Norway, but it may also make sense to allow private access to it. In some places, in fact, private is better than public, and competition is healthy – it has turned out. If you get competition, you're doing a lot better. To the representative of Tone Merete Sønsterud, who was concerned that the state is responsible, and we take the responsibility of the state: the bombs are about the same as the state uses on the state roads, and then I don't think it's the state that takes responsibility, then it's just as much the drivers, or maybe even a little more than the state that takes responsibility and finances them. And then at least you don't have to say that the state takes all the responsibility and makes sure to expand the state road network. It's the drivers who do it to a large extent. So to the last from the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa. I record that last week – I think it was last week – the evening post came with a very difficult look-up that showed that the forecasts for the State Road Service do not keep track. They prove to be too low over and over again in relation to the actual ratio. And then I think it's special that the Council of State goes to this pulpit, after the Directorate of Road admits that the numbers are too low, and says that she relates to the numbers that the State Road Service comes with, which are therefore not correct. Then I don't think the Council of State has got what happened, and then I hope that the Council of State actually goes up on this pulpit and says if she thinks that the Government Road Service's forecasts, which are much lower than the actual figures, are what you have to deal with. Because that's what she says in this case. I do not think it is good enough when we know that all history clearly shows that traffic growth is much higher. Then you should build a really quadruple road, not, as the Council of State has said many times from this pulpit, also in the Question Time, build as wrong as in the 1960s. We must not continue to build incorrectly in 2011. That is what this is about, and that is what the proposal for the Progress Party is about. So it's not a local demand for tolls. There is local extortion, where people are pressured to vote for it because the state and the political majority do not take their responsibility and make sure to fully finance infrastructure construction, which brings back a lot of value creation and socio-economic gains that you can almost only dream of – if you had built out what you should do on the infrastructure side. Knut Boge, one of the researchers who has researched this, says clearly that building good infrastructure brings back great socio-economic gains. That's what you should take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1753	Nor does the expression ‘local blackmail’, when related to local politicians, belong strictly to the correct parliamentary language. The next speaker is the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, who has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1758	All first to the Council of State: without assuming too much politics, I'm reasonably sure of one thing, that she saw the political in what I said in an excellent way. But it was the representative Freddy de Ruiter I wanted to answer. He began to interfere with the financial crisis and fiscal policy in relation to road development in Bodø. It is now such that the Progress Party cannot give money to anyone at all. We don't go around carrying bags of money that we can give to people. On the other hand, we stand for a policy where we take something less from the usual consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1765	It's an excellent quote that's worth noting, and it's to know the story to understand the notes and make the right choices for the future. I agree that we have to take the State Road Service seriously when they see in retrospect that the errors predicted 20 and 10 years ago. But we can't add to the forecasts they're making today on their own. We have to take it for granted that they are careful with their predictions. Today, predictions are predictive, so it will be. Then it's afterwards we see how traffic growth was. I got hurt saying the wrong number. I'm going to have to fix that right now. It is such that year-on-year traffic in 2013 is rv. So 80 is going to be equal to 8,600. Then the requirements we build the four-field road after, not, as I said, 15,000, but 12,000. So that means 8,600 in 2013. So once the traffic growth is calculated at 1-2 pst, it will be a few years after the forecasts that we have today. Nevertheless, I quite clearly believe that for the sake of Bodø, for the sake of the area around and for the sake of Northernland, we must ensure a better collective offer at this time. Then I just have to say in the end when it comes to the toll project: it is that the toll projects that have been brought up to decision have all as one of our projects that have been locally initiated, either to realize a project in the whole, or to get a project in a queue faster. So is this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1774	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7 [[See page 3628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1790	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1799	The matter we are now dealing with is a proposal from the Right on the competitive outsourcing of the Kongswingerbahn. The Committee is divided into the conclusions on this matter, and I will come back to that soon. When you read the settings, it may seem that there is not so much you agree on at all. It's probably a positive error. I think it's right to say that multiple parties share an engagement with the railway, which is also reflected in the setting. Where the lots differ, the way this exposure is expressed. There is a broad consensus that the railway must be strengthened. It is an efficient, rational and low-polluting mode of transport. The strength of the railway is that it can carry relatively many people at once and contribute to reducing the load on the road network. Railways are of particular importance in those areas where there are many people, and the aim is to extend rail to even greater extent around the major cities in general and in the eastern part of the country in particular. The proposers from the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that the competitive outsourcing of passenger transport on the Kongswingerbahn is the right way to go. The parties to the Government do not agree with this conclusion. Since there is disagreement in this matter, I will explain the views of the government parties in the following. I assume that the proposers themselves will deepen their vision, and that they appreciate that they themselves do so and did not sign it. The working party and the government's main objectives for the railway are to arrange for a neglected infrastructure. The most important thing we do to improve the provision of trains to travellers is to ensure that trains arrive quickly, efficiently and without delay and settings. That is why we have tripled the investments in the railways since we took over, and that is why we are doing a large-scale maintenance and renewal work on the railways. This is a huge and time-consuming work, but the results of this are already beginning to be seen. The punctuality and regularity of the railway is already better compared to last year. We see that the efforts made are beneficial. This applies to most sections of track, both locally and remotely. The working party and the government parties are very doubtful whether the competitive outsourcing is the right medicine for the Kongswingerban. Railway operation is associated with high fixed costs and economies of scale. The main challenge for the railway is the lack of track capacity. We have to increase it to get a better deal. The railway is an integrated system, in which the development of train provision must be seen in the context of infrastructure development. Long-term and systematic work provides results, not individual elements such as change of the train provider. Comparisons are made with the competitive outsourcing of the Gjøvikbahn. These routes are not directly comparable. Firstly, the Gjøvik track is an end track, which is less likely to be affected by other train services than the Kongswingerbahn. In addition, there is already competition between trains and express buses on the route Kongsvinger-Oslo. It's not on the Gjøvik track. The Gjøvik track is made as a success. It is worth noting that the increased frequency of the Gjøvik track is not the result of the competitive outsourcing itself, but that the State called for multiple take-offs when the route was offered, in the same way as they demanded the closure of stations in order to reduce the journey time. It is also worth mentioning that the red-green government reestablished – this is a confession, really – a daily train offer between Oslo and Stockholm at Kongsvingerbanen in 2006, after the Right, Christian People's Party and Left closed this offer after 133 years of continuous operation in 2005. It is vital that in the years to come, we continue to invest heavily in the railways. In order to improve the supply of passengers and goods, the construction and renewal of the infrastructure is the most important thing we do. The government parties disagree with the fact that as an ideological project, competitive outsourcing is the right use of resources in the task we are facing. That is why we are proposing that the proposal should not be adopted. I have included the minority proposal in the case, which I suspect will have a majority here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1825	The representative of Gorm Kjernli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1828	Not very unexpectedly after hearing the rapporteur, we have seen the political divisions in Norwegian policy. I think that the left-hand side is going very fast in the trenches and trying to present it as if the competition outsourcing of the Kongswingerbahn is almost impossible, because there are other freight operators, several train companies, that it is about both full-stop local trains and cross-border trains – and even cross-border trains – that make it problematic to do this. These are not conditions that will in any way make it impossible or difficult to compete with Kongswingerban, unless you really want to create it as a problem. This has been solved in good ways elsewhere. I think it's an honest position to be against outsourcing, but then I don't think you should try to find bad excuses for why you're against – excuses that aren't problematic at all, but very easy to solve if you just want to. For me, it is the possibility of being able to offer users or customers the best possible offer that is why I believe that routes should be set off for competition in Norway. So far, the distance that is subject to competition has proved to be a great success, because you got 40 pst. multiple departures and multiple passengers for the same price as you had before, despite the fact that it is the same owners who operate, both before and after, but with a slightly different way of organizing the structure of the company. It is clear that competition on the rail network has worked very well. As far as I am able to clean up the problem, customer satisfaction has actually increased after the job was put on the market, despite the fact that relatively little has been done with the infrastructure. It just shows that competition offers customers a better offer than they get today. Therefore, the Progress Party has proposed to open up all routes in Norway with the aim of ensuring the best possible offer for customers. But I would also like to point out that the infrastructure on the railway today is a limiting factor in being able to compete properly. However, despite the fact that competitive outsourcing has been a pleasure for both employees and customers and has been to the satisfaction of customers, it shows that when the infrastructure is developed, there will be an even greater potential for providing all train passengers with a further improved offer even on the competitive market. But unlike the other parties, the Progress Party has proposed an increase of 6.8 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals, the annual appropriations. This would result in a massive redundancy of railway development. This means that the double-track of the intercity triangle Halden-Lillehammer-Skien, the expansion of the Bergensbahnen, the interconnection of the Sørlandsbanen and the expansion of Oslo-Ski could be accelerated considerably in relation to the plans that are there today. The Progress Party believes that the development and modernisation of the rail network must be stepped up much more quickly than the current framework provides, while at the same time putting the rail network out of competition. A modern and efficient rail network will then be experienced, which needs less government funding, and which will not least provide rail and customer employees with a much better offer than what they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1845	The multiplicity position of the Transport and Communications Committee is a step in the right direction to open up competition on several routes in the country, for which the Right has worked for many years. A competitive outsourcing of passenger transport on Kongswingerban is for the benefit of travellers. The Gjøvik track was put off by the Bondevik II government and the competition was won by the NSB itself. Passengers on Gjøvikbanen have received significant improvements in train provision, and the track is among the most punctual in the country. The main conclusion of an evaluation carried out by the Institute of Transport Economics on behalf of the Ministry of Transport is: ‘The competitive outsourcing of the Gjøvik Railway has contributed to lower costs for the public and better provision of passengers, without having done so at the expense of employees’ pay and working conditions.’ The report concludes that many of the competitive outsourcing objectives have been achieved. This applies to reduced costs, better train provision and a higher number of passengers. This is also in line with a number of European experiences. The potential for public governance has also been strengthened. The Ministry of Transport has gained increased knowledge and competence about rail as a result of the process, and thus also improved the conditions for setting requirements for the design of passenger transport by train – still according to the same report. An overall committee is committed to improving train provision for travellers. The Committee's minority points out that a better infrastructure is the most important means of improving train provision. We can all agree on that, but it does not exclude other parallel good measures. It is also no secret that the replacement of the infrastructure does not go at rocket speed. The fact that the Committee's minority are pleased that the railway has received increased attention is also to a large extent not noticeable to travellers. Right then has problems in understanding counter-arguments such as the fact that the minority doubted – I stress the word doubtful – whether the competitive outsourcing is the right medicine, or the claim that it is difficult for a new player to deal with train sets and maintenance adapted to Norwegian circumstances. It must be entirely up to any providers to assess on their own. The same minority also argues that the Kongswingerbahn has a limited scope for attracting stakeholders. This is also a claim that does not have coatings until we have invited operators to submit an offer. The Transport Economic Institute, in its report, states that the competitive outsourcing on Gjøvikbanen provided government-enforced governance. This disapproves of the minority that the same control signals can be set without competitive outsourcing. Why, then, has the government not used this instrument, which is being promoted as a positive instrument by both TØI and the Committee's minority? The fact that the Kongswingerbahn is mainly single track is also promoted as an argument against competitive outsourcing and against multiple trains on the route. However, the recent investigation by the Railway Agency itself, called ‘A Railway for the Future’, is being read. Perspectives towards 2040’, you can read that today the track only has a capacity utilisation of about 50 pst. in the maxim on large parts of the distance. The government has postponed the implementation of a new basic rail route model in the East for an indefinite period. All parties agree that there is a great lag in the construction and maintenance of the railway infrastructure, and we all agree that we want to offer travellers a better offer. We also agree that the experiences of Gjøvikbanen are good. Then why do we have to disagree to try the same one more time – this time on the Kongswingerbahn? What is the risk that we run by going for the vote of the majority in the committee? The way the Right sees it, in fact, is the only risk that the offer to the travellers gets better. For the Right, it is quite clear that more routes should be put out of competition in order to achieve better efficiency, better regularity and not least a better offer for travellers. That's why we now want to go for the competition of the Kongswingerbahn as a next step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1872	This is a case that shows the ideological differences between the government party and the opposition. But sometimes I thought it was a little surprising, because we also have other sectors, the aircraft sector, among other things, and there I feel that the government party is concerned that we have too little competition. I don't know what the Council of State will say in its contribution, but when it comes to traffic in Northern Norway, I think there's a joint committee that's concerned that we're in too little competition. That is also the concern I have for the railways. I think having a good incentive for big organizations is incredibly important when you're going to get a continuous improvement. So I don't want to say that it is always very easy to launch competition within the railway – we have to admit that. There's only one thing going on, and we have to act on it. But then the Right Party and the Christian People's Party also say in the vote that we think it must be made a concrete assessment before we have to put off these sections, and that security must be priority. One. You know, we also have a competitive position on our vacations. But not many companies operate on each ferry section. In this case, there is only one skunk over the fjord – to use a visual language. I found the experience with the Gjøvik course so positive that this is something we should go further. There's every reason to believe that we'll save money on this. There's money that we can spend on the railways again. For the most part, the railway manager said just one year ago, that we can ‘understand a breakdown’ within the railway if we do not make significant changes. Competition exposure is one of several tools that I am willing to use, because I believe it will lead to a renewal. That is why I am pleased with the proposal from the Right today, which is supported by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1885	In my previous period on the Stortinget, as Vice-Chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee, I constantly raised the issue of the competitive launching of the Kongswingerbahn with then Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete, without the great success, I must admit. Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm of the Bondevik II government put Gjøvikbanen at a competitive disadvantage, and the success of the Gjøvikbanen resulted in the Kongsvingerbanen also being put off by competition, if the Bondevik government had continued. In contrast to what I experience here in the Chamber from the case rapporteur, rapporteurs from red-green parties along the Gjøvik track were very excited about upgrading the Gjøvik track, with frequent departures, stiffer routes, better organisation for disabled people – which was the result of the tendering. The rapporteur should take note of this. The left is convinced that more competition in passenger traffic will be a good thing for the individual traveller, for the NSB and the companies they compete with, and for society as a whole. The NSB Gjøvikbanen AS is a 100 pst. owned subsidiary of NSB AS, and NSB proved to be an organisation with the ability to turn around quickly and meet the strict requirements of the call for tenders. The NSB must be very commendable for that. The left has the user in focus and does not allow which names you set on the organisational model, determine whether the solutions are good or bad. There is no doubt that competition on the Gjøvik track has given users a better offer than they had before. That is why we also want to put the Kongswingerbahn out for competition, and of course we support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1901	It is now well known that the Norwegian railway has our food for several decades. Now we see the consequences. We have an old and worn railway network with virtually single tracks. When the infrastructure fails, or older trains get into trouble, delays are fast propagated, both because there are few re-routing routes in the railway system and because the railway system is not robust enough. The stop structure is many places as he was before the road construction, and the travel times are too long. This also applies to Kongswingerban. We have too much delays and too long travel times. The main measure to improve train provision for train travellers is to improve railway infrastructure. It is a derailment to believe that the major challenges in the railway sector will be solved by switching train companies. In order to increase the capacity and quality of the rail network, it is necessary to pursue long-term and systematic efforts to maintain current installations and to make initial investments. Railways are an efficient, environmentally friendly and land-efficient mode of transport. But it requires willingness to bet. This government is investing in the railways. We've started a big reverse operation. We've got a lot of things to do. increase the permissions of the Railway Station by close to 70 pst. from 2005 to 2011. The Kongswingerbahn is currently operated by both commercial freight operators and several passenger train companies in agreement with the Ministry of Transport. Competition suspension applies, as I understand it, the traffic agreement with the Ministry of Transport today with the NSB on the operation of local train services on the Kongswingerbahn – i.e. the proposal that runs today, I understand that. The Kongswingerban infrastructure presents several challenges for the train provision. Many platforms are too low and too short. The stop pattern on Kongsvingerbanen is designed at a time with the operation of many small stations that are relatively close and have little market base. The extensive bus service provided along the route competes with the train during the journey. For the Kongswingerbahn part, changes to the stop structure may be what will improve the train provision on the route in the short term. In addition, the large stakes in maintenance, for example: The Oslo project, also contributing to better operational stability of train provision on the route. The railway laws open so that several train companies can compete for traffic contracts. We're using the forces of the basic problems now. I think it's the right priority to get a better train offer to the travelers. The railway operation is also the hallmark of high fixed costs. A large volume of traffic is required for a competitive package to be attractive enough for other suppliers to want to establish themselves on their own railway operations in Norway. In addition, there is a need for both implementation and participation in competitions for train service contracts. The Kongswingerbahn train offer is too small to make a separate traffic contract. I cannot see that a competition for the operation of trains on Kongsvingerban will provide the necessary framework conditions for effective competition. Competition for traffic contracts does not, in my opinion, automatically provide passengers with a better train offer. The railway is an integrated system in which the development of the train supply must be seen in conjunction with the development of the infrastructure. It is also important to interact well with other modes of transport in order to develop holistic collective solutions, such as: Corresponding buses in hub. Long-term and systematic work will provide results – not individual elements such as: a change in train providers based on competition. So I would like to stress that I think it's good that we have debates in this room about what can give the best offer for those who travel on a stretch. We've had several of them in the past year. I would argue, however, that we have to get a little bit further when it comes to the infrastructure itself, the bulwark itself, before it is a competition that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1935	I record that the Council of State was not quite clear on the competitive outsourcing, but she thought that the Kongswingerbahn was difficult to put out. But I would like to ask the Council of State if she can be concrete and clear: What does the Council of State think is the disadvantage for passengers by putting the rail network into competition? Can she be specific: what is the disadvantage of putting out competition? It might be good to know what the Council of State thinks is the disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1940	I think it's more important to start at another end and talk about what must be the basis if we're going to have an effective competition. What must then be provision No. 1, is actually to have a punctuation that allows even more people to see it attractively driving a path. So I would also say that what was worth noting about the Gjøvik track was just that it was the NSB that won the competition and that is driving that route. What was very special, was that in the winter of 2010, which we've put behind us, there were extensive settings and delays just on the Gjøvik track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1947	The council just said in its reply that she would start at a different end. In other words, the council did not answer the question that was asked. I can respectfully say that I have not heard anyone from the pulpit today argue why they are against a competitive outing. There have been many other arguments, but no arguments as to why they are against competitive outsourcing. One of the points that have been drawn forward, including by the Council of State, is that one assumes that the route is too small and that there will be no stakeholders in the current route on the Kongswingerbahn. I would like to ask the Council of State again, as a follow-up: how can the Council of State focus on these aspects without asking any suppliers about this route? I believe that they are right to think something about this, not the Council of State itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1956	I said in my post that I think it is very resource-demanding to facilitate competition on a route, and especially on such a limited route as the Kongswingerbahn, while I also think it is resource-demanding to compete on this route. So what's hard about Kongswingerban is not that the operation is not open to competition. What is demanding for those who travel by the Kongswingerbahn is the time of the journey, it is the course of events – there are many other conditions that we have to deal with and that we have to deal with. There has been a lot, both ballast cleaning and much more, and what we need to discuss when we are going to conclude a new traffic agreement with the NSB is to increase the frequency of the distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1963	The council said that in the winter of this horror we had in 2010, there were delays on the Gjøvik course. But it was also on all routes in this country. From this point of view, the Gjøvik track came out relatively well when we saw the TØI report that was presented. He shows, among other things: that competition has provided both a more reasonable and a better one. It's a TØI report sent to the Council of State. It would be interesting if the Council of State were to distance itself from that report, or to accept the content that TØI has provided to the government. My question is, because I think it became very little clear and clear: What is the problem for those travellers with a competitive start? That is the question that I believe Stortinget expects the Council of State to answer. What is the travelling problem with the postponement of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1970	I have to go back a little bit to winter, because it is quite right that I was upresis there. If one of the different sections compares, the Gjøvik track shows just how demanding it is to create a competitive base that takes care of all aspects, because the Gjøvik track is one of the sections that were just different from many other sections. They had serious problems during the winter. So the problems for the passengers. Problem No. 1 for passengers is whether the train is on route or not. Problem No. 2 is if travel time is longer or shorter. Then I grabbed the two – bulwarks, travel time and the number at stations. I do not share the opposition's exaggerated belief in competition. They launched the services on the railway so far before they left that they had to report to Stortinget that they had gone too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1977	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e1982	‘The impatient — for such people, too, were here — occasionally suggested that they could well build a roadway. But what would this village with highway? People didn't have wheels. And by the way, what would they do with wheel tools? They didn't have a way." I live in Sigurd Hoel's hometown of the North Odal, built among others. spoke of sweets in the novel Trollring. Now we are not talking about the way in this case, although it could be tempting because we are many who have waited a very long time for rv. the 2nd extension. And we have more transportation challenges. In the meantime, we have to work along several tracks. Inhabitants who go to Kongsvingerbanen also do not have a satisfactory train offer today. Capacity utilisation is far from being achieved, and we cannot, with our best will, understand why the inhabitants of this area should not also benefit from a satisfactory communication offer. The right has worked for many years to open up competition on several routes. The Railway Act is also designed to allow several train companies to compete in traffic contracts. In my neighboring party, which has been referred to up to several times here, the Gjøvik Railway is an excellent example of a successful outsourcing of competition. The Transport Economic Institute's 20-year-old report explores different options. At the time, we were among the countries of Europe that had made the most of the organisational preparations that would enable us to compete. At least you can't accuse us of haste. The study was used as a basis for further work on the national transport plan 2002–2011. So now we're going to write 2011, and as one of the very many impatient people, both in the north and in the south, and in the whole region of Glamdal, we're going to ask, what's missing for us to go on? We're asking the government to outsource the Kongswingerbahn, and we don't think it's necessary to argue either with snow deficiency or a lot of snow. Here, the most important thing is that we, as the Minister was also involved in the previous case, who actually live near one of the three major cities in our area, deserve a better communication offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2002	I just need to comment on a couple of things. The representative Pettersen said you don't see the effect of the increased attention and effort on the railway. Well, the punctuality so far in 2011 has been greatly improved. It was well down in the '70s last year. This year it is currently over 80 pst. The situation has improved. The professionals say this is due to more money for maintenance and renewal. We're now getting to do something about the challenges that are. I believe that we, as red-green politicians, can be involved in taking part in the honor of it. So to my point about better offers at Gjøvikbanen. It is clear that rapporteurs along the Gjøvik Railway will of course be satisfied when they have more departures. Well, that's what I'm saying. But my point is that it didn't necessarily come because of the competition itself, but because then Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm demanded that there should be so many departures and that you should have a travel time – which you couldn't fulfill after these same rapporteurs argued a couple more stations that shouldn't be laid down. My point is that you asked for more departures. It wasn't necessarily competition itself that gave more departures. That's a creative way to say it. The work we are now doing on the new base route model is another way to do it – more departures and better offers, including on the Kongswingerbahn. But here too, there is a close link between train provision and infrastructure. Therefore, we must have the infrastructure in place before the train provision is significantly improved. On the Kongswingerbahn, for example, it's going on. on the possibility of turning trains. It's also about crossing tracks. I don't have time to go into the details about it. So to the TØI report. Some issues I think it is possible to deal with the TØI report, without saying that I totally disagree with everything that says there. In terms of costs, we are only halfway through the tendering period. I will wait to settle the accounts until we have completed it. You had completely new train sets on the Gjøvik track when you started there. The maintenance costs of these, when they may have to be maintained, have not yet begun to appear in the accounts. So I think there's a reason to wait until you're done and you don't settle the accounts when you're halfway. Then you can also ask the employees on the Gjøvik track what they think about exactly that, and what costs will come to the maintenance of train equipment when those costs come. Then I think the account might be a little different than what the TØI report now shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2017	I have followed this debate with interest. It strikes me that all those from the opposition who have had the word have one single argument, and that's the Gjøvik course. No other arguments have been used. Then it has been said quite correctly that the reason why the route offer on Gjövikban increased was that in the call text there was a requirement for an increased route offer. But there was one more thing that happened to the Gjøvik Railway, which no one has mentioned. Before that, the NSB cut the route offer on Gjøvikbanen. So first the NSB cut the route offer, and then the call for tenders at Gjøvikbanen called for increased route offers. Such a policy will, of course, lead to better route provision. And that's good. It needs the people along the Gjøvik track. But that's totally useless as a argument for putting off a completely different track. In addition, would the example of Gjøvikbanen be such a very good example today if there had been another operator other than the NSB who had left the winner in that bidding round? Then I have to say that I am somewhat uncertain about how sincere the commitment to the Kongswingerban is really among the proposers and some others who have had the word here today. Borghild Tenden mentioned Torild Skogsholm. Yeah, that's fine. It was Torild Skogsholm who closed the train offer between Oslo and Stockholm. There was perhaps no impressive effort being put down by that team. Fortunately, we got a government change in 2005. If I am not mistaken, the train offer between Oslo and Stockholm was opened – I got the pleasure of being there – in the winter of 2006, with the then Norwegian Minister of Transport and the Swedish Minister of Transport – a big brand day along the Kongsvingerbahn, after the Bondevik government had first dropped the train offer. Kongswingerban needs upgrade. New crossing tracks are needed. I would like to know how many times I have been sitting on the train on Fetsund, Sørumsand and Blaker and where it must be waiting for crossing trains, as it is called. Luckily, some infrastructure measures have now taken place in the case of new crossing tracks. But there's still more to be done. Fortunately, the rapporteurs along the Kongswingerbahn are now also involved to a much greater extent than we have seen in the past. They've created – I'm a little unsure of the name – a kind of forum for the Kongswingerbahn, so that the political attention on the Kongswingerban is now much stronger than it has been before. It's good with a strong commitment to the Kongswingerban, but don't get the Gjøvikban into it. It has nothing to do with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2028	Now, in fact, this case is about Kongswingerbanen and about outsourcing, so the two things belong very closely together. Several arguments were requested. The TØI report that I referred to instead contains a number of arguments, including: from 15 European countries, not just the Gjøvik Railway, which has been highlighted by some in the debate here today. I'm not going to leave the ideological resistance to the word 'competition concession' entirely. Although the Council of State would not answer what negative consequences she saw for the travellers on any competitive outsourcing, we will only continue to ask those questions until we get an answer to them. Otherwise, the arguments have been that it's difficult, and that it's bureaucratic with the outsourcing, and it's probably extra difficult on the Kongswingerbahn, we've managed to get through the debate. What, then, is so difficult? In the State Council's letter to the Committee on 7 February, as she also repeated earlier in the debate, it states that the railway law is designed to allow several train companies to compete for traffic contracts. But then the Council of State writes that there are no long-term plans for the implementation of such a competitive regime. If we go back to TØI's evaluation of Gjøvikbanen, they say that already in 1999, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, alternative strategies were explored to facilitate further competition on the Norwegian railway network. In that investigation, in 1999, it was concluded that Norway was among the countries in Europe that had been most likely to make organisational preparations for competition. And if we look at the national transport plan 2002–2011, then this investigation was precisely the basis for the further work and work in relation to the gradual introduction of competition on the rail network. So now we're ten years later, and I have to repeat the question, what's so difficult in 2011? What are we not able to do in 2011 that TØI thought was fully possible to work with in concrete terms in 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2044	I've noticed the representative Gorm Kjernli's great commitment to the railway, and that's good, because then we're more. What he was talking about was making demands and that it was the success factor with the Gjøvik track. Yes, but that is actually an argument that you could also put off the Kongswingerbahn and make the same demands, so you would get the same good uptime you got on the Gjøvikbahn. So for money use, which always becomes a debate: it's like all the parties on the Stortinget are now spending more money on traffic, and it's often the way new governments spend more money – so lucky we are in this country. The left-hand side also spends a lot more money; we actually spend 1.2 billion. kr more on rail and public transport than the red-green ones within the same area. We will have a new debate on the railway on 5 May – the intercity triangle. Then the red-greens can get the chance to show that they're actually serious about betting on the railway, and especially in an area where population growth is huge. During the previous period, the Committee had good dialogue with the Gjövikbanen. What impressed me most about Gjøvikbanen was the pride that the employees, and the then managing director, showed over his ‘course’, as he almost called it. It was a performance project, and the travelers marked the pride that was shown. That's what I think is important – yes, I'm sure that's how we could get it on the Kongswingerbahn if the red-greens hadn't trained it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2058	Let me just say first when it comes to the Gjøvik track: I've traveled with the Gjøvik track myself. I thought it was fantastic what they now got there, also of other offers than travelling by train, i.e. the combination they have with the White Centre, with school classes, with environmental measures on board, etc. But when it comes to launching the Gjøvik track, it's worth noting that this is a relatively short path. Self-understandings of competition, or the requirements imposed, were put in place with local authorities. There were many companies that had initially qualified themselves, but that withdrew and did not let in the offer, precisely because this was a short distance. The size must also be aware that the Gjøvik Railway has difficult challenges with the infrastructure ahead. What's special about the Gjøvik track, and which is now also involved with the Kongswingerban, is the local involvement that was from the beginning and that follows this path. We now experience that on the Kongswinger course, and it promises well. I think it's one of the most important things when it comes to improving the supply of Kongswingerban. For the main question for those who travel with the Kongswinger course, what are the most important steps to get more people to travel? Then there's no doubt, I thought: it's punctuality and getting down the journey time. There must be some grip in that context, for example: We have a project encircling the station structure for multiple paths, including the Kongswingerbahn. So we're going to have to conclude a new traffic agreement. It is not competition that has been the great cry for improvement on the Kongswinger track, it is punctuality and travel time, and I hope that we will be able to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2069	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3629]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2085	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2094	We are now going to consider two representative proposals, both of which are about road safety and plans for it. It is a proposal from the Progress Party on concrete measures to improve road safety and a proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on combating traffic death. The representatives of the Progress Party propose that before the summer of 2011, the government should present a case of measures to improve road safety, and the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to promote an action plan on road safety. The Committee has chosen to examine these two representatives in the same position, because they are largely concerned with the same issue. 1.3 million people are killed every year in traffic worldwide, and internationally, this is a major public health problem. Today, road accidents are number nine in the list of causes of death in the world, and in a few years they will climb to fifth place. In May of this year, the UN launches its decade of road safety. Then we're luckier here in Norway, which is actually one of the most traffic-safe countries in the world. Last year, 210 people were killed in traffic in Norway, and that's the lowest number since 1954. Traffic safety is a topic that concerns the entire transport committee, but in the consideration of these representatives we have reached a different conclusion. Therefore, a two-part recommendation from the Committee is promoted by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre and deals with the representatives' proposal from the Progress Party, and it is proposed that this should not be adopted. II is promoted by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, saying: ‘The Government is asked to promote an action plan on road safety.’ I expect that representatives from the majority of the committee will justify their views later in the debate and that they will do so in a much better way than I would have done. Therefore, on behalf of the minority in the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, I would like briefly to justify our position. So in 2010, 210 people were killed in traffic in Norway. Although this is the lowest figure since 1954, of course it is too high, and the number of people killed and injured in traffic represents a significant social problem also in Norway. The size of the operation is addressed by the National Transport Plan, St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, and thereby endorsed concrete stage targets to reduce the number of road traffic fatalities and injuries by at least one third by 2020. NTP also outlined a strategy for achieving the stage objective. The Government follows up these objectives and specifies the strategies through the National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013 and the State Road Safety Action Programme 2010–2013 includes detailed lists of where and when road safety investments are to be carried out. The national transport plan 2010-2019 also includes a plan for financing road safety measures, which is also addressed in the annual budgets. Road safety investments were doubled in 2009, and compared with the previous national transport plan, the annual effort was further increased by 50 pst. by 2020. As we see it, the task of the Storting is to set goals, allocate money and clarify policy-challenging issues and strategies on how to operate road safety. At the action plan level, there must be professional assessments which determine the action to be taken, how priority should be given to achieving the objectives set by the Stortinge within the framework set by the Stortinge. In the field of road safety, there is a great deal of research and knowledge about what works, and this, of course, needs to be taken into account by the professional authorities. On 10 March, we discussed road safety challenges in an inter-pelling debate. I went up an interpellation to get up a discussion about the policy-challenging areas and measures that we should discuss and resolve politically to further reduce the number of hard damage and killed in traffic, in the light of the zero vision. In retrospect, I note that these challenges were not discussed in much detail by the opposition parties. Today we can enjoy the news that no kids died as a passenger in a car last year, which is probably the first time since 1970. This is the result of us taking into account research and adopting laws and regulations according to what research says. First, the Stortinget adopted a requirement for the use of safety belts, which was initially not a very popular requirement, and then a requirement for the safety of children in the car. Today everyone agrees that this was of course quite right to do. There are such discussions and clarifications that belong in Stortinget. The follow-up measures are made available to governments and professional authorities. On behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I would like to address our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2129	The representative Susanne Bratli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2132	This is a very important matter, which it is important to have a lot of political pressure. I think the interpellation debate on 10 March was an interesting debate. That was not all I agreed with the previous speakers, but it was an interesting debate that focused on some of the important issues we are facing in the field of road safety. I also want to say that we would like to hit our chests and say that it is good that we are one of Europe's best countries, but I don't think it is so much to hit our chests because when we know that our neighboring country is heavenly in front of us. I know that when talking about road safety, the representatives of the government parties are very concerned about focusing on the responsibility of the driver. But I want you to actually stay a little longer by the fact that the state also has an important responsibility in terms of road safety. To put it in perspective, the country in the world that is best at road safety has nearly 2,000 km of motorway. In Norway, we have 350 km. They have more than 2,000 kilometers of middle parts, where you separate the highways and prevent people from dying in meeting accidents. This shows that action has also been taken there in relation to the road situation and the responsibilities of the caregiver, for which responsibility in Norway is far from being taken. I also hear that there is a lot of concern about the 2010–2013 national action plan. Yes, there are many good proposals for action in that action plan, but it focuses a great deal on the second and not the State's responsibility, namely the drivers and everyone else who is very concerned about taking responsibility for road safety. And yes, we all have a responsibility – the drivers have a responsibility – but I also think it is important to point out that the state takes its responsibility far from it. To put it in perspective: yesterday there was a lawsuit in the District Court about the 45-year-old family-father Cato Paulsen, who died in a motorcycle accident on 4 June 2008. He got the kick, rolled and ended up under a meeting truck. The accident was caused by loose gravel as a result of a hole in the roadway, which was not asphalted. They left Akershus the county council and Mesta Drift for gross negligence. Yesterday the court found out that the workers of the two defendants had acted negligently because no warning sign was set up. The family therefore fails to pay the costs, but was not informed that it was gross negligence, and therefore no compensation. They are satisfied with the judgment because it has been established that the accident is due to the road and not to the father. However, I think it is time to ask the big question: does the Council of State still believe that all accidents in Norway are largely due to road users, or is it the case that it is now perhaps necessary to start reviewing its old positions? Because there has been the discussion and debate in this Chamber. I think it's a big paradox that whoever might have both resources and opportunities and at least should take responsibility, disclaims any liability for accidents that happen on our road network. We have received repeated reports proving that the extremely poor road network we have in Norway is the result of many of the accidents that occur on the road network, which unfortunately have fatal consequences. It is difficult to deal with all the good proposals that are in our proposal for a representative, but I really hope that all the representatives here and everyone who will read the minutes afterwards will actually go in and read the proposal for a representative on concrete measures to improve road safety. I think it is sad that no other party will be involved in a proposal that says: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the summer of 2011 with measures to improve road safety, including: – a complete overview of the most hazardous routes on national and county roads – proposals for measures on the routes at risk of accidents, in particular middle parts and road maintenance and road operation – a plan for the financing of road safety measures – proposals for the liability of road keepers and roadside roads for lack of road safety’. This would be information that could be crucial and is important in the further work on road safety in Norway. Unfortunately, it seems that all the parties are going to vote against it, with the exception of the Advance Party, of course. I hope that more people will think like that and look at the proposals of the Progress Party, which are good road safety proposals that can help us meet the challenges we face in the future on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2167	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough presentation of this matter, which is based on two representative proposals. For my part, I would like to deal with motion for a resolution No. 76 S, which is from a total opposition. In short, we are asking the government to promote an action plan on road safety. The background for this is an honest attempt to arrive at an obligating plan that the whole Storting could stand behind and commit to. That is why we have challenged the Prime Minister. He refused to accept an outstretched hand from the opposition. We have also done the same to the Minister of Transport, who also did not want it to help, and now the government parties here in Stortinget, when they are most likely not going to support the proposal later today. Actually, I think it's a little sad. There can then be little partialism in wanting to have safe conditions in traffic, in this case reflected in a binding action plan. Then it was claimed from the government parties, and also from the case rapporteur, that we have such a plan. Yes, we have seen a national action plan, we too, but it is developed by the State Road Administration, the Police Directorate, the Health Directorate, the Education Directorate and Security Traffic, and it does not oblige Stortinget. It also does not oblige the government, it seems, since the government after two years with its own NTP plan is 500 million. kr behind the objective of NTP in the field of road safety, where the level of appropriations after two years should have been up to 1.7 billion. kr. It can only mean that it is not obligating and that one third of the 152 measures in this plan are pending. I'm not going to go so much into concrete content, we've done that in several debates in the past, but I think it would be good for the Stortinget to be able to draw up an overall plan where we meant something about the physical conditions, the state of the roads, the goals we set there, the further development of good behaviour patterns and, of course, vehicle requirements. I think we'd been on that, and it could be a good, pooling exercise for the Storting. I also want to spend a few seconds on the happy news today that last year there were no children who died in traffic. I think that's very good. It shows that behavioral change is going on, and it shows that the kind of stimulation you've done over many, many years is working. It is well raised beyond any doubt that young people today who bring their children into the car have a completely different view of how the children must be secured, than only the generation before they had.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2180	I would also like to start by thanking the case spokesperson Bratli for a good explanation of the matter. But I disagree with the case-speaker’s assessment – of course – of the importance of the political dimensions here, versus the professionals. Then I would like to start with another matter. We had a health minister a few years ago who said he wanted to reduce smoking among the young people by 50 pst. And on the basis of the award-winning, he got through the professional etats what he needed to do to reduce smoking among the kids by 50 pst. On this basis, he was then recommended to introduce something else. smoking laws, and we know the political processes. But I don't think the smoking law would have happened if it hadn't been political processes from government and big business. I don't think the trade unions are the ones who can lift the kind of big political progress that smoking laws are. In the same way, I think, therefore, that we also need an action plan that looks at health when it comes to our biggest challenge in the traffic sector, which is road safety. I would like to use some examples of why I think we need such a type of action plan: one is the debate that has taken place in winter, that is, in the case of pitfalls. If we had built the European road between Lveggal and Flekkefjord today, I believe we have 100 pst. security had built him with the middle parts. It was a road that many of our political parties were with and supported, and that we decided to build in 2003–2004. As an OPS project – it was decided in 2001 – it was built without midpoints. Today we would build it with middle parts. Now we have a clear priority for which way we want to build with middle parts, and which way we want to build without. Because we can't build all the roads in Norway with the middle parts. But I think we need to get a clearer lead on which way we're going to build. So we can go to the question, what kind of handrails are we going to have? I feel that I get very different feedback. Waterworks? There are different professional assessments. Today we can rejoice that no children died in traffic last year. But if we look at the number of young men killed in traffic, we have no reason to rejoice. If we compare the number of young men and young women killed in traffic in Norway with the number in Sweden, we see that Norway has a significantly higher figure. What can we learn from Sweden when it comes to road safety? Now the government – and I think I am happy – has chosen to reduce the speed in some ways. Yeah, what's behind that kind of assessment? We know that the human body can tolerate certain rapidities. But where does the limit go for which we're tolerating? It matters to how old we are, how well physically equipped we are in relation to this, but we know that there are some limits, about 70 km/h. I only come up with some issues that I think show that we need a holistic review of this, and therefore I fully support the proposal for an action plan on road safety. I think that the biggest challenge we have, should be so absolutely involved in the Storting too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2195	I have followed up on a number of debates that have taken place in this Chamber on measures to reduce traffic death. It is an important matter, and I think it is good that the opposition takes this up at regular intervals. In the documents that are being discussed today, I read that it focuses on, among other things: intermediate works, safe roads, an overview of accident-related sections, financing of road safety measures and making road keepers and roadside roads responsible for the lack of road safety. I guess that's good. It is clear that the State also has a responsibility – an important responsibility – for road safety measures that work. My honour in this debate does not really apply to it. My errand is about alcohol. I think it is a weakness in the debates that have been, that one goes past this and does not talk about it in particular. The starting point is that alcohol and alcohol use are becoming increasingly common, accepted and widely used in society. Alcohol use in Norway is strongly increasing, while in several European countries it is declining. Alcohol is one of the leading causes of death among young people — young men in particular — aged 15–29 years. Then there is reason to believe that half of those killed in traffic accidents are related to a driver who has been driving for a short time after the consumption of alcohol. It is estimated that 40 000 drivers travel every day under the influence of alcohol, drugs or medicines. As I said, it is remarkable that the debate on traffic death does not become more focused on the opposition. From the Progress Party, which is the proposer of one of today's Document 8, this is not at all mentioned as a focus area. Later today, in the Health and Welfare Committee, we are going to debate changes in the alcohol law. In this case, the Progress Party and the Right will, in principle, be in favour of a change in which municipalities are given the opportunity to donate alcohol 24 hours a day – a strong liberalisation. As the only batch, the Progress Party refuses to agree to opinions that relate alcohol to injuries, accidents and ill health. In our comitology, we point out, including the Right, that there is a clear and well-documented link between alcohol availability and consumption, that there is a link between alcohol consumption and health damage, and that alcohol-related health damage is also linked to pro-mille driving and road accidents, and this is in contrast to the health fraction of the Progress Party. Instead, they fight, along with the Right, that the Wine Monopoly in the future must be allowed to be open on Christmas Eve. That is why, in my view, the commitment of the Progress Party to reduce traffic accidents and road deaths is half-hearted. I'm sorry about that. The red-green government last Friday promoted proposals for new public health law. Public health work shall take place in all areas of society, in all fields of policy. The Committee on Transport is an important Committee on Public Health and the Minister for Transport is an important Minister for Health. Without taking seriously that so many of the accidents and deaths on the roads in Norway are caused by alcohol, drug use and drug use, we will never be able to achieve the zero vision of road damage, no matter how many middle and better roads this government is able to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2210	I will not repeat the comparison with our neighbouring countries in terms of reducing the number of road fatalities, as it says in the suspension, but only note that Norway loses in competition to reduce the number of road fatalities. Of course, it's very serious. The left believes, and has always thought, that the most important thing we can do in the transport sector is traffic safety. That is why the Left is involved in this proposal. Therefore, the left considers that the time is overdue for a proper commitment to road safety in Norway. Research tells us that in addition to compliance with the speed limit, increased police controls and safer cars are several miles with middle parts on the way part of the recipe, but the expansion is slow. I find it sad that the government parties are not more offensive and impatient and do not vote in favour of this somewhat harmless proposal for an action plan on road safety. The representative Toppe could get his involvement from the previous posts in such an action plan, but she simply does not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2219	Let me say first of all that I am very pleased with all the commitment that is to increase road safety, but I think we need to be clear that there is a need for a combination of several measures in relation to both road, vehicle and individual drivers. The government's work on road safety is well politically anchored. St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, contains both concrete figures of investment in road safety and an overview of the area where you want to invest in the years ahead. The government has doubled traffic security investments in relation to what was planned in the previous National Transport Plan, 2006–2015. In today's plan, we plan to invest $2.6 billion. over the first four years. Half way out in the period, we've spent about half of these funds – 1,293 million. kr. In addition, there will be race protection, more four-field road, much maintenance and renewal. Norway still has the second best weather figures in the Nordic region. It's Sweden that has fewer deaths than us compared to the number of inhabitants. As the accident figures go down, it will be harder to find simple road safety measures that will make a major impact on statistics. For this reason, countries with more deaths and severe injuries than we do, by simple means, will achieve impressive reductions in the number of accidents. It is therefore a great inspiration to see how Sveige has reduced her mortality in recent years. Sweden has combined action against dangerous behaviour with action against the road — that is precisely the combination. They have triple controls in the last ten years. At the same time, they have reduced the speed limit over 15 000 km of road, because speed kills. We know that a reduction of 3 km/h can reduce the risk of an accident by 30 pst. Therefore, we have chosen to follow Sweden's example. Last year the police increased their controls on drivers and driving gear by about 11 pst. At the same time, checks are more targeted by the fact that the police are present at times and places where one knows that the danger of accidents is greatest. I have opened for automatic measurement of the average speed of 40 new road sections over the next three years. The state road system has further developed a new criterion for setting speed limits outside congested roads. As a result, the speed limit will be reduced to almost 500 km of road. There are measures included in the National Road Safety Action Plan, resulting from the priorities set out in the National Transport Plan. They may not always be as popular, but they save lives. At the same time, we are continuing to invest in a non-meeting way. In Sweden, they have today built up 4,000 km of road free. According to the National Road Safety Action Plan, we will have 750 km of non-conversation road in Norway in three years' time, as well as 365 km of highway with enhanced mid-point marking. The reasons for taking longer time in Norway are well known – we have talked about this many times in Stortinget. Middragverk costs about ten times more in Norway than in Sweden, and is also much harder to implement in practice in many places. Let me underline when it comes to midwives according to new criteria: I have taken up this issue, and asked the Directorate of Road to see more closely the use of this road safety measure. The Directorate-General for Road Transport has been asked to assess whether the annual traffic limit for new roads should be lowered from today’s requirement of 8 000. I have also asked for an assessment of opening up too much flexibility for when to set up pitfalls on existing roads. The deadline for feedback from the Directorate of Roads is 1 June of this year. For me, it is important to have an offensive attitude to the work on road safety. We need to build on knowledge. We have it. That is what needs to be underpinned by the Road Safety Action Plan that we are following today. So I don't see the need for an additional plan. I want to use resources to implement the policy that is already planned, based on research and experience, and that we see working.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2244	I want to continue with what I challenged the Council of State instead, which the Council of State did not respond to. We are constantly experiencing accidents, the Commission and others, that we see that the nature of the road is the result of accidents. We could save more lives every year if the road standard were acceptable. I also record that the Council of State is very concerned about providing all the examples of drivers' faults that make the accidents happen. But I want to challenge the Council of States, and expect to get a clear answer: will the Council of States now also start taking responsibility for the poor road network on which people are running, and which we see as consequences for a steady process, or will the Council of States continue to blame on everyone else and say that it is the faults of the drivers, when we know that the new motorway drastically reduces the number of accidents? North Westfold is one of the best examples. Since 2001, there has been only one fatal accident there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2253	In fact, I found it quite eye-catching that the representative Bård Hoksrud once after another stood here and said that I did not take responsibility for the road. That's wrong. I take the utmost responsibility for both maintenance and renewal and for the construction of new roads according to the national transport plan attached in Stortinget. I've asked the state authorities to figure out how much money they need this year to put an end to the down payment. They've got the money, and they say it's the first time they've got the money they need to stop the debt. I have repeatedly stressed that there are serious delays, serious omissions, but not just that: there are difficult needs ahead. We take them seriously. When it comes to the recommendation of the State Emergency Commission after a meeting accident in Alta, where the road was also inside the image, I would say that the Road Service was asked to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2260	When, from the opposition, we have focused on traffic safety, the Government has often replied that you focus only on physical measures and on middle-parts, while at the same time saying that there is a much broader set of measures that need to be applied. Of course, we do not disagree with that. But we have followed very closely. So in the government's own plan, you've done a good job of plotting 850 million. kr for traffic safety per year, but already at 500 million. behind it. Then I realize that you can't build expensive middle parts. But we in the Right have granted 1.4 billion in our budgets. kr more than the government, because we have a zero vision in this area. Will the Council of State be with us in the zero vision due to the ‘nature of the road’, as Hoksrud expressed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2265	The government's plan of action against road safety is based on zero vision, zero killers. We must never miss it in sight. We have to have that vision in common. When it comes to the zero vision on the road, I would say that what we have to do is always to be concerned with improving maintenance, improvement and renewal, and at the same time to create a new path after a goal outlined in the national transport plan, which is followed. There it is that there is notice of an escalation from 2010 to 2013. We've also followed that. When it comes to traffic security and the funds there, we're now halfway out in the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2272	The representative Kjersti Toppe criticized the opposition and the Christian People's Party to talk too little about alcohol. It is not every day that the Christian People's Party is blamed for it. But I thought it was a great commitment she showed. The Christian People's Party has also been concerned that we should follow Sweden when this is the case, for example, with alcolocks. I have recorded that the Council of State has – very happy, I thought – given drivers who have driven with promille, an alternative, when it comes to the possibility of alcolocks. I think that's the right way to get back in a good way. But there are other possibilities, such as: Alkolock in all buses. It's a road that's now being assessed. In the light of the clear challenge posed by Toppe's party colleague, I would like to challenge the Council of State: Is alcohol in buses something that the Council of State considers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2279	I first want to say that I will defend the Christian People's Party in relation to Kjersti Toppe, because the Christian People's Party, in contrast to the Advance Party and the Right, is an important player for the government to put in place measures that apply to zero tolerance for rushing and driving. I think Kjersti Toppe is aware of that, but let it be said here for the sake of order. The state road authority assesses whether it is possible to get an alcohol lock even in buses. It is an important measure. What is now most likely to be realised is alcolocks as an alternative to prison sentences in connection with pro-mille running. Then it is also possible for private to install alcohol locks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2286	Car density is also a cause of road accidents. Now there are several parties who, at their national meetings, are making great efforts in the field of public transport. This is about billions more for public transport a year in the future. Is this something supported by the Minister for Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2291	Borghild Tenden reminds us of something that is very important to be clear. It is that the causes of traffic accidents are compounded. In that case, the measures must also be composed. She also reminds us of ticketing as an important matter in connection with road safety. I just have to say that I have had a great upsurge as Minister of Transport in the last few weeks, precisely because different parties now in turn and in order have decided to invest in public transport. It is consistent with the establishment proposal in Guideline 1 of the next national transport plan, which we will discuss in the spring of 2013, it is consistent with the parent road network layout, and it is consistent with the Centre Party, Left and SV. The Christian People's Party will certainly bring something, and also the Workers' Party's national meeting... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2298	The progress party does not have to wait until the national meetings. We have all made proposals for a collective package in the context of an alternative national transport plan. So it's right there. The Road Traffic Act is subject to vehicle requirements and is not applicable to the owner of the road. When will the Council of State ensure that the person who owns the road is given objective legal responsibility? Commenting on the comprehensive monitoring of Norwegian roads by the Road Traffic Information Council, State Secretary Bartnes says: «Norwegian road is too bad, and we have a great job to do. But no matter how you turn it around and turn it around, it's a question of appropriations. More money is needed.’ When will there be more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2312	State Secretary Bartnes and I are 110 pst. some say that there are many bad roads in this country. He repeats something I have also said. There's a lot of bad ways, there's a lot of backsliding, there's a lot of need in the future. There's more money coming year after year, that's what it is. There's more money in 2011 than it was in 2010. There will be even more money in 2012. We are going to present a new big message, a new national transport plan, in the spring of 2013. Then there will be further escalation to transportation – no doubt about it. Then it's not that we haven't seen a single claim, Sortevik knows better. There are road normals for which the roads should be built, and there are requirements for maintenance. That's the way it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2319	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2325	In 2010, as stated in our position, 210 people were killed in traffic in Norway. That's 210 too much according to the zero vision. In eggs, people get hurt, everything from lighter to hard damage. I have noticed that the Minister of Transport and others from the Red-Green Government have begun to say that we cannot build ourselves out of traffic accidents and traffic deaths. I think that sounds completely wrong when they come up with their solutions. I would say that the red-green government is doing everything it can to wash its hands. It does what it can to create the impression that building good, traffic-proof roads, such as quadruple roads with middle parts between large cities, is not as appropriate. But we're not fooled. We know that safe, modern roads are the best way to prevent accidents. The Minister of Transport seems to feel that good training for drivers and reduced speed limits is better. But you can't solve big traffic problems this way. I agree that, in addition to building good roads, as well as building middle parts where necessary, as well as building wide road shoulders, as well as using the physical road safety measures available on the market, good driver training is also necessary. However, it is not possible to replace building road safety measures with a few hours of additional training for drivers. It doesn't help much that you run well yourself, if others don't. There is a need for physical road safety measures. I'm sorry to hear that the red-green government with the Minister of Transport at the head is trying to blame drivers who are driving on our bad roads according to the traffic rules that exist. It's done because they think that the population doesn't realize that the government is doing this just to avoid using the money the drivers themselves pay in car-related taxes. But we're not that naughty. We need an overview of the road accidents, we need to take action on these roads, we need a financing plan for road safety measures, and we need to make the road keeper responsible and weigh it when the bad roads are responsible for the accidents. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2342	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3629]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2360	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2369	The background to this proposal for a representative was that the taxi industry has for a long time had a very lucrative reputation, much because of all the tax evasion revelations, but also because drivers who have been punished for violence and abuse are still allowed to retain their rights and are able to operate in the industry. This is very damaging to all those taxi owners who have always driven – and who are constantly trying to drive – in line with laws and regulations, like all other traders, and who are frustrated by colleagues who destroy the serious and put the industry in a very bad light. It has therefore been called for laws and regulations to be put in place and for those granting the rights to be given authority so that they can withdraw the criminal perpetrators. But this has proved to be difficult; it has been difficult for the counties and for the Municipality of Oslo. It has therefore been important for the proposers to put in place a new legislation to make it easier to withdraw the right from those who are carrying out their activities under the law. As everyone knows, the taxi industry is very different from most industries in Norway. It's because this industry is regulated in a completely different way than most of the others. Fortunately, there is no government agency that regulates the number of dress shops. There is also no instance to determine how many restaurants there should be. And there is no thanks for how many IT companies there should be in this country. However, in the taxi industry it is the government that determines the size of the industry — that is, a strange form of planned economy. An example of the absurdity of this regulation is found in the comments of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, where they rake down on the taxi offer in Oslo by claiming that it is so-called ‘overcapacity’. I can't understand anything but that this means that it's possible for most people to get a taxi without a long wait, and that this feels positive for the customers. Today's retail regulation creates not only major problems for the industry itself, but also for the states and municipalities that are to administer the legislation. What the proposal for a representative, Document 8:77 for 2010–2011, is really about providing the taxi industry with framework conditions that are a little more similar to those of the rest of the industry in Norway. This should actually be completely uncontroversial, because there has been a gradual departure from retail regulation in the vast majority of other sectors, perhaps apart from agriculture. The market economy has a challenge with annual image problems related to crime, and this is largely due to today’s rigid legislation. The majority of the Committee, i.e. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, promotes a common proposal to open up rights directly to the individual taxi centre, so that the central centre can itself acquire the taxis and hire the drivers, and in this way also get it into fully arranged and legal forms and with framework conditions that any other company that establishes gets. The consequence of the proposal is that the industry will quickly be able to get rid of drivers with a criminal track, or other people who share in giving the industry a bad reputation. An organisation in which taxi drivers act as ordinary businesses is likely to be the easiest to get to in the big cities. The point, therefore, is not to grant all the rights in this way, but to at least open the legislation for allocation directly to the centres, so that it can be realised in the largest cities in the country. In the vote, the Progress Party and the Right also have common comments on another topic that I believe is very important, namely that consumers should be able to use their consumer power to compare prices between taxis and various taxi centres. This means, among other things: visible price information in cars and in holding places. The taxi customers should be able to be sure that the driver in the car is actually the right driver. Customers must have the freedom to choose the driver, the car or the taxi centre they want. It is also a matter of introducing, from 1 September 2011, a parallel tariff in the individual travel segment for all taxis throughout the country, i.e. distance and time pricing throughout the taxi journey, irrespective of the speed of the taxi. The fact that the customer should be able to use his consumer power in relation to the taxi industry is, in fact, exactly the same as the fact that the grocery industry has to tell its customers what the cost of the goods is. So here we are talking about harmonisation. It is high time to release the taxi industry and consumers of taxi services from today’s comprehensive bureaucratic solutions, such as: the number of permissions attached. The Progress Party and the Right therefore promote a common proposal to amend legislation and legislation for the taxi industry, with a focus on deregulation and effective control. I assume that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will be briefing on their own minority comments. I would like to take up the proposal on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2403	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2406	The taxi industry represents an important part of public transport, and it is probably under-communicated. The industry is important for the population in both central and districts. It is therefore important to address the challenges faced by the taxi industry. We are therefore pleased that the Minister for Transport has notified us of the review of the current legislation for the industry. We are also pleased that the Norwegian Taxi Federation is working hard to clean up some aspects of the industry, while at the same time they have been very clear to us politicians on what steps need to be taken in terms of law and regulations. The most important thing for us in the Workers' Party is that the audience should have a safe and secure taxi service and safety for the jobs in the industry. There is therefore reason to ask some questions about the competition and deregulation of this industry by the Right and the Progressive Party. Is it true that if a license system is removed – as proposed by the Right Party and the Advance Party in Oslo, and as proposed by the Advance Party and, to the extent proposed by the Right, it will be better for consumers, it will be better for quality, it will be cheaper, it will be better for drivers, and it will be more profitable in the industry? No, this is where the Right Party and the Advance Party are. This is simply a deliberate policy to reduce the quality of these services and provide lower wages. Does the Right and Advance Party really think that taxi drivers serve too little and work too little? It may work this way when they propose release and deregulation. We in the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, will continue the good dialogue with the industry and ensure that the quality of the service remains good, and that one should facilitate a wage to live on. That is why we are reviewing the current legislation and regulations and that we are also looking at challenges related to, among other things. health transport, which is a major part of the income base. We cannot see any good reasons to support further deregulation of the taxi industry and wonder that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not take reality into account, but are more concerned with deregulation, whatever the consequences. In this way, this case is a good example of the difference between red-green and blue policies. We choose to take account of consumers and those working in the industry, at the centre, while the Right and Advance Party clearly have completely different priorities. Finally, I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2421	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2424	Dry nutrition is a compound nourishment. There are very different challenges in cities and districts. In urban areas, especially in Oslo, there is great competition in the taxi industry. Demanding working conditions for many and increasing environmental taxes may be the result. In fact, a taxi queue may also have a different definition in Oslo than in many other places in that country. A taxi queue in Oslo might as well be a queue where cars are waiting to transport people, contrary to what a regular term defines: a taxi queue is people waiting to order a car. In the districts, deregulation could lead to the disappearance of taxi services in scattered bus services. I don't see any reason to deregulate the industry. I would rather look at a more differentiated regulation. Irregular relations mainly have our connections to rights. Let me remind you of things that have been done. Since January 2009, Nav has the right to obtain information directly, including: from taxi centres, to control income against insured persons. From 1 January 2010, there are work requirements for taximeters. A local control forum aimed at the taxi industry was established in Oslo in 2009. The forum was attended by both police, law enforcement and other control agencies. The industry has also helped to clean up after 2007 through its own internal measures. Let me mention the aspects of professional transport laws that I think there is a need to look at more closely, for the first information exchange between different governmental powers: the principle of permission assessment is today based on police certificates or alerts from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thus, the basis is a criminal offence in which punishment is imposed or a criminal offence. Violation of tax laws that are not dealt with by criminal law falls outside the scope of the directive. Under the current rules, the tax and tax authorities do not have the power to notify the powers of the state of rights of their employees, even though the information may have a bearing on the issue of granting or withdrawing rights. The Ministry is working on a proposal to introduce a right or an obligation for the tax and tax authorities to provide information to the law enforcement authorities on matters which should have an impact on the issue of the granting or withdrawal of rights. Secondly, there is a need to look at new measures to streamline the management and control of the rights regimes by the Governing Boards – four points in turn and order: the obligation to provide information by the Equation Board powers on the introduction of economic requirements and the conduct of behaviour of a taxi centre to assess the ability of the law enforcement powers to control the taxi industry in addition to the control of the police and the State Road Service under the law today assesses the guidelines on how to carry out the pilot tests on taxis, including the determination of the number of centres and the relaxation and exemption from the running obligation in more specific cases; I aim to follow up these points and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Finally, let me point out that we will return to Stortinget after a hearing note has been out. I expect it to be clear during the spring, and that at a later stage we will be able to have a greater debate than is possible today. I am, like the proposers, engaged in strengthening the control of the licensing arrangements for taxis and other modes of transport. I've done more thorough things for what's going to be in this listening note in an interview that we had in Stortinget on February 3, when we had more time at our disposal. And then I want to say that in terms of deregulation, I hope the Stortinget is aware that the taxi industry is a composite industry with different needs for the customers in the city and district.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2457	If you remove all the issues surrounding this, you have to be able to get rid of the criminals and those who engage in questionable activities, I want to ask the Council of State a question, because this is businessmen who do business like everyone else. I think it is a little special that the Council of State is obviously more concerned with those who are business than the customers. And so – it’s just a reflection: I think it’s important to both, but you also have to think about the customers. It's the customer perspective that's important here. But what are the disadvantages for customers if you grant central permissions instead of assigning them to individuals? I would like the Council of State to respond to the disadvantages of the customers. I actually thought it would be good for customers to know that there is a company you can relate to, that there are employees who follow both the Working Environment Act and other laws and regulations, and that it is easy to walk on them. If there was anything to complain about, it would be much better to go to a central rather than relate to perhaps a place between 1500 and 2000 perpetrators in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2464	Let me first say that it would be sad if I were to be perceived so that I was not busy with my customers' needs in this matter. Of course, they're the point number one. For the customers it would be a clear advantage that one has a clean nourishment to stick to. I now want to look at different pages and recordings that are coming, and recordings that are coming, that are coming, that are coming, in this debate. It's simply from the point of view that there's a lot of problem setting associated with a composite industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2471	I am pleased that the Council of State says that she is occupied with the customers. But I observe that the representative de Ruiter was very concerned about those who are perpetrators, and about those who are drivers, and not as concerned with the customers. Does the Council of State share Freddy de Ruiter's view? I have still not received an answer as to what the disadvantages for customers are, by proposing that the centres be granted the permits instead of distributing them to individuals who then have to do their own business. It will be much better to be able to deal with a central employee who operates in the same way as all other enterprises in Norway. You can't do that today. Why won't the Council of State open it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2479	I understand the representative de Ruiter that he is busy that customers should have an offer of taxis from an industry that takes care of their employees. I also understand the same in the debate we had on February 3rd this year. So here are examples from other countries that say that there are more clean conditions in place than today, as well as the cleaning up that the taxi industry itself has already undergone, and the changes that have taken place in terms of changes in law and in other ways. When the debt benefits and disadvantages, connects to central banks and directly to permissions, I will return to it in the listening note I have advertised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2486	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2491	A good taxi offer is important for the inhabitants. In Oslo, we have a taxi policy that has led to a huge surplus of taxis. One often talks about market power, but a market for taxis is imperfect. There's no one standing in Stortingsgata at 0 p.m. 1 at night a cold day with east wind, stopping a taxi and asking what it costs to drive to Vålerenga. Right then the market power is quite unsymmetrical. When there are long queues of taxis, it's close to believing that it'll be furiously cheap to get one of them to drive you where you're going. But it's not, it's more expensive than ever. The usual mechanism of the market loses a different effect, namely that when the taxis stand still 60-70 pst. of the time, they have to take a high price for the trips they get. This not only affects us as customers, but it also affects those who drive the taxis. We want people in this country to have a decent salary through regular work with normal working hours, but it's a luxury we don't enjoy today's taxi drivers. They now have to run 12-14 hours to get the same income they received ten years ago with a regular eight-hour day. Instead of getting hold of this, an extension of the number of rights in Oslo was announced. The Right Party and the Advance Party go back here to a time when workers' rights were weak. Isn't the Progress Party concerned that they can't clean up Oslo before they have a new framework policy? When an entire industry, with the exception of the management of some smaller centres, warns against several cars in the streets, a person should listen to it and not grant new privileges, so that the range of empty taxis is even longer. There is a significant challenge in terms of industrial and labour conditions, as the industry itself describes as demanding. It is also important in the further work to look at the number of permits in a larger context in each municipality. It is very good that the Council of State has announced a review of the need criterion and the Transport Act. It is important to prevent overcapacity and to create viable working conditions for drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2511	I am aware that there is no unusual method of making a line in which to ask about the views of other representatives. However, when the representative himself is present, it is appropriate to address the question to him. There is no improvement in the person who is signed being misquoted. But to help the representative Hoksrud, I will repeat what I said in my post. The most important thing for us in the Workers' Party is that the audience should have a good and safe taxi offer and that there is security for the jobs in the industry. For the Workers' Party, it means that we see these two things in context. We have no faith that the offers to the public will neither be better quality nor cheaper by getting an over-establishment of the number of taxis, such as the number of taxis. is about to happen here in Oslo under the political rule of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, which Yrvin explained in an excellent way. I understand that the Progress Party needs to get away from this issue, namely that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in the process of – or at least have a desire – deregulating an industry that will be detrimental both to consumers and to those who work in the industry. So I ask again the question: Does the Progress Party believe that there will be a better offer, that it will be cheaper, that there will be higher wages, or does the Progress Party think that taxi drivers work too little and serve too much?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2522	I did not intend to speak in this debate, but let me take that risk and extend the debate today for a minute. I think that when we are accused of having so little smart solutions in the Right, I must be allowed to speak. Taxi is a good thing we want as users, and I'm very happy with the taxis in Oslo. I think the price level is good, and I think you're sure what to pay when you get there. The fact that there are too many taxis in Oslo is a very different problem. There is another problem in rural areas – that is, to the extent that the Council of State is involved – but it needs to be resolved in a completely different way. But then I ask myself, why do we have to regulate the taxis, which are an offer to the customers, other than the barber shops, other than the car repair shops? If it works, they will continue. If they can't compete, they won't be on the market anymore. I guess it's the same in the taxi industry, too. I really don't understand the difference – that we have to think more about those who drive taxis than about those who cut their hair, and more than about those who repair your car. It is then a service we want as residents of the Kingdom of Norway. It's totally incredible to me that we have to regulate this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2531	I also think it's amazing that this industry is something special. In my home municipality – a very small place – there are five hairdressers who compete and who do it in an excellent way without the involvement of the municipality, county or state or others in how they operate their business, except that they have to comply with laws and regulations like any other company. What's so strange about this case is that here, suddenly, the Workers' Party has a huge commitment to self-employed people, who are going to have completely different ways and mechanisms to deal with than everyone else in the business world has to do. That's the special thing. It's not like the representative Yrvin says, that people pay for how long the taxi has been quiet. You pay the price you have to pay when you're driving, and to get where you're going. But then you're going to have a parallel fare, which is going to make it not depending on how fast the car is going, if you get what you pay to travel by taxi. I am still recording that the Council of State will not respond to the disadvantage of customers by allowing them to operate taxis and have a clean and decent working environment. To Freddy de Ruiter, my question was not what you meant. My question was what the council thought about your statements here on the pulpit. It's something completely different. But I want to say that some of the reasons why someone wants to set up companies are of course. that you want to use just the Toyota Prius, and you want to have your own, uniform color on the cars. When people call my taxi centre, they need to know that when they drive with my drivers, everyone has fulfilled the requirement of a certificate of good conduct, that I follow the laws and regulations in relation to the company, that there are clean and decent working conditions and wages – and not least in how to run their business. In fact, there are some opportunities to buy many cars and in this way they could get a lower price and have more margins and pay their drivers better. But these are relationships that those who are so concerned about that the centres shouldn't be allowed to establish themselves, set up their own businesses, seem so terrible. I still think the Council of State should respond to the disadvantages. And so it was the Council of State I asked about the views of Freddy de Ruiter's statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2544	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2547	I think it's absolutely brilliant that the political differences are as clear as they are here. I expect the industry and taxi drivers to notice that the Advance Party and the Right believe that it is clear, and that it is only to establish as many taxis as possible. But then it gets a little weird, I think, that the representative Hoksrud is talking about decent and tidy working conditions, because with respect to reporting, it's probably pretty naive if you're going to have a free establishment of taxis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2571	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2580	It is an important issue that is raised in this Document 8, simply because it is one of the issues we have just had a debate on earlier today, namely road safety. Of course, it also means much to the regularity and accessibility of Norwegian winter roads that trailers and large vehicles are well protected, but above all we are concerned with safety also for other road users. The size has previously dealt with a Document 8 proposal on intensified control and registration of non-resident vehicles. This is what the government joined in, and I've realized that it's working in the department. In this case, an overall committee assumes that the ministry and the authorities carry out effective control, and that the Council of State provides for measures against foreign vehicle combinations as well as Norwegian vehicle combinations, so that we can get safe vehicles on Norwegian roads. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is present here, and they have their own proposal for a decision that I believe they will explain, and it is only those who support it. Therefore, I would just like to say briefly, at least on behalf of the Right, but as the case-rapporteur, too, that the reason why we didn't go into it, is that here the attention is closest exclusively to non-resident vehicles, and not to Norwegians. This may be important enough, but in a matter where we focus on safety on Norwegian winter roads, Norwegian trailers also have to take their share of responsibility. There is also no fault-free, and many remember these newspapers throughout the winter about a vehicle that stood and blocked important mountain crossings, yes, for several hours, before the traffic could be released again. In the notice I brought with me, it was unfortunately the Norwegian vehicle it was valid for. I think I'm giving up there as a case rapporteur. I expect the proposers to explain their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2595	This winter has fully demonstrated the extent and severity of the situation in the case of poorly winter-s papered vehicle combinations. As the rapporteur was concerned, this is a problem not only for foreign trailers. It also includes, to the maximum extent, Norwegian vehicle combinations. There have been many examples of mountain crossings and roads that have almost been blocked due to vehicle combinations that have been too poorly shunted. We had e.g. an example in the north of which a building was closed for almost 24 hours due to a combination of vehicles which ended across. That is why there is an important issue raised by the proposers. The Ministry of Transport and the underlying agencies have implemented a number of measures and also assess several new measures to ensure better traffic. One of the measures that I am pleased to see in the Department is that there are now consultation proposals on opening for the use of heavier spikes on cars and trailers with a maximum permissible weight of more than 12,000 kg and on buses. This has been an important requirement for, for example: the loading drivers and have been taken up with, inter alia: Norse magnification representatives, because the kind of spikes you use today, do not provide a good enough grip on slippery roads in coastal and northern Norway. The Road Traffic Act has also been amended recently, so that the State Road Service now has the right to remove the vehicle itself that has been stuck. In the past, only the police had that authority. It is now easier for road authorities to restore accessibility on Norwegian winter roads. I am also pleased that the Minister of Transport wrote in the letter to the Committee that the State Road Service has intensified the number of checks, and that the police have also done the same with a reinforced focus on the control of tyres and chains in order to stop trailers that are not well equipped. The Ministry of Transport also assesses whether the use of winter tyres is mandatory for specific winter months. I am pleased with the strong focus of the transport authorities and the police on ensuring that trailers and other heavy-duty vehicles are equipped for winter driving. It is important both in a road safety perspective and in order to ensure accessibility along Norwegian roads. This winter has shown that there are too many poorly equipped trailers on the roads and too many drivers without sufficient competence to master winter conditions. That is why it is important for the rapporteur to have an overall committee that agrees that the Ministry of Transport must continue to monitor this development and assess possible measures to prevent poor-boiled trailers, and that it is important, inter alia, to: several checks are carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2610	Foreign trailers are involved in accidents on Norwegian roads every winter, both because trailers are not equipped for winter driving, and because many drivers have little experience of driving on our winter roads. There are frightening stories from people who run over Norwegian mountain crossings and meet foreign drivers with poorly equipped vehicles. It is, of course, positive for the Norwegian economy that foreign operators get to deliver goods in Norway without costly transhipment. But something has to be done with security. We cannot allow Norwegian laws and regulations to be practised less strictly for foreign vehicle trains than for Norwegians, because that is how our Norwegian professional drivers feel. In the South, there is a major problem with foreign car trains on southern winter roads. Politics never gets better than the decision-making base to which we politicians have access, and in this case, there has been a technical discussion on tyre pattern depth. The discussion has been between the Minister for Transport on the one hand and the Progress Party and the Norway's Lastebileier-Federal on the other. In the proposal for a representative, we referred to the requirement of a 10 mm design depth for vehicles over 12 tonnes on steering and driving wheels, as one of several possible measures. In the response of the Minister for Transport to the Committee of 9 March, the Council of State claims that new tyres for heavy transport are supplied with a pattern depth of 12 to 15 mm and that the proposals of the Progress Party were therefore problematic. Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund then sent a letter to the Committee on 23 March, in which they pointed out that drive-wheel tyres are supplied between 18 mm and 22 mm in depth. Norges Lastebileier-Verbund points out that the Progress Party was also right in the case of two-axle towing vehicles in the case of three-axle semi-trailers. The Minister of Transport then sent a letter to the Committee again on 7 April, admitting that the Progress Party and the NLF were right in terms of pattern depth. Nevertheless, the Minister maintained his conclusion on the draft representative, although the new facts change the whole premise of the Council of State's conclusion. Of course, the pattern depth is just one of several things to look at, and I am glad that the department has commissioned the Road Directorate to investigate whether the introduction of winter tyres in Sweden and Finland has given a lower accident rate on winter driving, although the answer to this should actually be obvious. The draft representative also lists a number of other measures that should be looked at in greater detail. Unfortunately, Norway is a slowdown in road safety, mainly due to insufficient investment in good and safe roads. For example, the whole of E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand should be have been a motorway a long time ago. Yes, the Minister of Transport would probably also agree that the whole route E39 from Kristiansand to Stavanger should also have had motorway status. When foreign trailer drivers come to Norway and experience both poor driving and miserable roads at once, this creates additional insecurity. Therefore, something should be done, and I am disappointed that the proposals of the Progress Party were not supported by one of the other parties, despite the fact that everyone knows that this is a major problem on Norwegian winter roads. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2631	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2634	In winter, there have been situations in which car combinations have been stuck or involved in accidents on our roads. Unfortunately, the reason for the events has often been that the driving equipment is too poorly protected from traffic conditions. Let me tell you right away: I'm particularly busy with the problems that bad-boiled car combinations create on the Norwegian road. It is an unsustainable situation where wagon train drivers do not adequately consider the weather conditions. It's dangerous. It also affects traffic disruption, with the costs involved. Both the State Road Service and the police have increased the focus on tyre control and chain control in connection with traffic controls. Such checks were carried out, including: in the case of ferries, and vehicles which do not have enough tyres and chains, will normally be refused to continue running. The relationship may be reported and may result in the punishment and loss of the driver’s right if it is serious enough. I took the initiative to change road traffic laws. It's done. The state road system now has the right to remove running gear that has run rigidly and hinders its emergence. Only the police had this right before. This will make it easier for road traffic control authorities to ensure the emergence of our roads quickly. I don't see any need for further regulatory changes at the moment, but I assume that both the state authorities and the police are exploiting the possibilities provided by the current legislation. So quite briefly about these suggestions that are made here, which are related to the pattern depth and the two-axle towing vehicle in combination with the three-axle semi-trailer. What's important is to have a chain. There are already obligations under the current rules to bring and use them if necessary. When it comes to pieces, it might not be useful to trust the depth of the covered area. In addition, the important thing to be clear is that the difference in respect of the characteristics of two- or three-axle vehicle train emergence will be minimal. Then there's a big question: are we going to defend in Norway that a whole group of vehicles approved in the other EEA countries are not used in Norway? The problems with the emergence of two-axle towing vehicles can also be minimised by chain use. In addition, the two proposals themselves will easily be considered as barriers to trade without sufficient justification. I notice that the representative Halleraker stressed that in relation to the pictures, the questions, the remark, which was here earlier this winter about a situation in which many vehicle trains were standing after each other, unfortunately this time Norwegian drivers caused the situation. We have to be clear about this, and the Progress Party has to take over, that this sometimes happens for foreign vehicle trains – maybe they're overrepresented, there's something to suggest, but it's actually Norwegian drivers who don't keep the rules that we have. We are then obliged to ensure that we are not a barrier to trade on one side, and that we have to ensure controls both at transitions and on Norwegian and foreign vehicle trains, as well as that we have actually now given powers to both the police and the state road services that the police did not have. So let me say: it is important that we constantly follow the practices and regulations of other countries, including Sweden and Finland, which were mentioned here. I actually argued that the state road system does all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2654	It might have been fun to ask if the Council of State was satisfied with the level of competence of the Directorate when one first responds to the Committee and then has to send a new letter of reply afterwards because it turns out that the facts are not correct in the matter. But what I am more concerned about knowing from the Council of State is: everyone says they understand this, and it is definitely not problematic to find evidence that foreign trailers account for a much larger proportion of the cars on the road than Norwegian trailers do – both in terms of equipment on the car, the type of car you drive, and other things. Among other things in Agder I know that the police said they had hoped that a winter ban had been put in place. So I want to ask the Council of State: isn't it that when these cars account for a large proportion of the cars that stand still, end up in the ditch and are a danger to other road users, you shouldn't remove it, after the debate we have had earlier today on road safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2661	Let me stress that when it comes to road safety, the reasons are composed. The solutions must be equal to that. Let me also say that I am very sorry to respond incorrectly to the Storting. I don't think they in the Directorate of Roads are particularly pleased that they were responding to mistakes in the first place. There is something that can happen, but it also needs to be corrected. An error has to be capable of twinning, but at the same time has to be recognised. We've done that in this case. Let me also say that I have a close dialogue with the truck industry. I think it is very important to have close dialogue both with those and with others who travel on the roads, in order to have the right legislation at any time. I'm glad they made note of this very thing. But then the question is, what are the emerging properties? Is this as difficult as the Progress Party wants it to? It's not everyone's mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2670	I'm not going to put myself in pattern depths and axles. I'll leave that to the professionals. But I have been made aware of a problem that can actually contribute to the fact that the car combinations do not stop and add to chains. It is that there are not enough so-called chains before mountain crossings. Maybe that's something we could focus a little bit on, and notice the sign that you're going to a chain place in a few kilometers or so. If it is possible to take immediate action here – after all, there are not so many mountain crossings involved – we will promise the Council of State support for this, if she needs money revised for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2678	I thank you for the offer. I actually think that Øyvind Halleraker has a point – he has that from time to time. [[Laughter]] Then I would also like to stress that I am busy with good dialogue and recording in a field where we can open up better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2685	I have taken with me the statistics on vehicle train accidents in Norway from the Statistical Central Bureau. We have today been glad that there were no killed children in the car last year. We look at developments in the last ten years that, while we in almost all areas have been successful in improving, we do not have it when it comes to vehicle train accidents, that is. that, in the last ten years, developments have been relatively stable, both in relation to the number of deaths, seriously injured and more easily injured, while we have not seen the improvement here that we have seen in other areas. My challenge to the Council of State is: What does it mean to be the basis for this? And what measures does she now see is needed to improve this, as we have got in the other areas when it comes to road safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2690	Let me repeat something that I have said in a different context today. It's that the reasons are composed, and I think that the solutions have to be. But it is very important at any time to be busy strengthening the running training. I think the own transport lines that are, and the country lines that are, are very good contributions in that way, with the exercise that they're doing, and the renewal courses that are. Then we've talked about the relationship between drivers from other countries and from Norway. It is clear that there is everything from language to requirements for running and other matters very important to stay and have a common cross-border approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2697	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2715	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2724	The proposers ask for the establishment of a system of publication of the percentage of iron and steel and for the operation of the traffic spheres. The aim of the proposal is to unlock unprofessional operators and improve the quality of traffic training. The setting shows that the Committee is fully involved in this matter. The Committee believes that the quality of driving training is important in order to reduce the number of road accidents. Quality assurance of driver training providers is important. Useric operators must be unlocked. Today, the State Road Service has an important role to play in overseeing the traffic spheres. In order for a traffic school to offer driver training, the school must be approved by the State Road Administration. The road authority supervises the traffic spheres in order to ensure the quality of education. In the view of the proposers, disclosure of the results of the supervision of the traffic spheres would be a positive step towards opening up unprofessional operators. Unfortunately, there are many unprofessional traffic jams in this country. It shows, among other things: an investigation by the State Road Administration. Last year, a total of 21 driving schools were denied permission – here is TV 2 which is the source, after obtaining figures from the regional offices of Vegvesenet. Today there are about 700 traffic schools in this country. A total of 1,021 inspections were carried out at the driving schools and other training providers providing traffic training last year. A number of regulations were put in place, while about 20 traffic balls received a warning. Nevertheless, the most serious thing is that the Road Service revoked 21 licenses among the driving schools or professional leaders at the schools. Most of the driving balls are serious and drive well, but there is a need to get closer to what is actually done with the schools. Thorough supervision is necessary. We need to focus on this, or we'll get more dangerous drivers in the future. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State refers to the work that is now being done in the State Road Administration, where the register that exists today is to be further developed. The Committee endorses the desire for more systematic publication of supervisory results and proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2741	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her briefing. The background to this proposal for a representative has both a road safety, information and transparency aspect. We know that young people in traffic are particularly vulnerable to accidents, and there is a broad established understanding that good and quality driving training is crucial. At the same time, it is documented from several teams, from very serious traffic schools such as have made contact with me, that there is a great difference in the quality of driving training at the various traffic schools, as the rapporteur also said, and that there are too many unprofessional actors on our roads. We think this in the Left is serious. We also believe that there is a great need for better customer information about the quality of the traffic schools, so that young, future drivers get an overview of the operators in the industry. We believe that information on traffic schools should be made systematically available to the public. This will be a valuable information base for students in driving training to choose the best and most serious traffic schools. Parents also find it difficult to help their children find the best traffic schools. It is therefore with a little disappointment and a little wonder we see that no one supports this proposal from the Left in the vote. Although the Council of State's letter is very positive, concrete progress remains, as we see it. However, it is still possible to support the proposal from the Left – which is not just the Left, but more with us seems important. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2752	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2755	Unfortunately, young and inexperienced drivers are overrepresented in accident statistics. I am, therefore, busy having a high-quality driver training that can help reduce youth accidents. Training is important to provide young people with good knowledge, skills and attitudes. This will enable them to tackle the challenges they face. In this context, the State Road Service has an important role to play in overseeing the traffic spheres and in establishing the necessary measures, including: to increase the competence of traffic instructors. The audience shall have the possibility to choose a good and serious traffic ball on the basis of criteria other than price. It is important that the public demand quality. The state road authority already has a register of approved traffic balls. It allows the public to choose a lesson from where they want to take the training. The state road system will develop this register, in cooperation with the industry, so that the public is better informed about quality. It is important that the left takes up this matter, so that we also get a discussion of the traffic spheres. In fact, the quality of these schools is a very important contribution to traffic safety, which we have talked about in the past and in other days. Let me stress that through the supervision agency, the state road authority receives a good signal about the quality of training at the school. However, a systematized publication of State Road Administration reports has not been provided with a complete coverage of the image. In the long run, most of the responses from supervision have been directed towards those at the traffic ball and not towards the traffic ball itself. It may be unthinkable if negative information is to be contained in a school for a long time, if, for example: this actually applies to an additional and, in particular, if the traffic instructor in question, for example: has ended. Thus, supervisory reports do not necessarily have to be representative of the school’s overall activity. It is necessary to consider how such a register can provide the best possible information to the public, while giving a correct picture of the activity of the traffic sphere. The statistics on the percentage of slurry for individual traffic spheres are already being compiled in the State Road Service. This will visualize the percentage of completed tests. In order for the test to be included in the statistics, it is assumed that the traffic ball has completed the mandatory step 4 training with the candidate. Without a requirement for the student to have completed some of the training at the school in question, the statistics can give a distorted picture of the quality of the training at the traffic ball. For the first time, I would like to await the experience of publishing iron statistics. Thereafter, evaluations will be made as to whether additional systematic disclosure of information on the traffic spheres and their activities are appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2775	One of the proposals here went on with publication, which the Council of State has also affected, both in the letter of reply and in the post now. And – if I heard correctly – she said that she would be waiting for the release. There are many traffic schools that want this publication. What's the reason why the Council doesn't want to do it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2780	I would like to await the experience of publishing iron statistics. Then we're going to consider whether additional systematized disclosure of traffic ball information and their actions are appropriate. The background to this is that both from Sweden – it has been shown to Sweden before today – and from the State Road Administration show that there is an example of the fact that the pre-arcist does not give up the correct school when reporting to the driver's test, and that there are schools that are not approved, inviting their elephants to give up another approved traffic school when reporting to the driver's test, without this school being inside the whole image. So there's a lot of the practical stuff that makes us see something closer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2785	Yes, I noticed that it was written in the reply letter that they reported schools other than where they had actually taken traffic training. But isn't it possible to reveal it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2790	I think so. It may be possible. Let me say in addition to the conditions I already mentioned, that there are some candidates who, for various reasons, often change traffic jams. What's really important to me is that here the State Road Service has a system where they have an overview of the traffic balls they're offering. Then, in addition, they supervise, and I am confident that when there is a greater focus on the traffic spheres and the content and quality – as in this proposal in this debate – the state road system will be even closer to the supervision that is being carried out, and then they will develop their system somewhat more gradually. We need to be sure that it is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2796	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2814	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President cannot see that the President is in the Chamber. That means that the President gives the floor to the representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2825	In this case, we will deal with some changes to the alcohol law and the wine monopoly law. Many of the changes are clarifications against which the Progress Party does not have counter-representations, and so we do not say anything about these changes. A change is proposed to specify which diploma is to be able to grant exemptions from the age requirements of the seller, supplier or giver of alcoholic beverages, provided that the diploma has a natural connection with sales or donations. The Progress Party believes this is an important and correct improvement in the law. The size has discussed opening up to self-produced products containing alcohol on several occasions. It is only a short time since we discussed a draft representative from the Left, where this issue was addressed. The question of the sale of self-produced products within groups 2 and 3 was also discussed. The majority rejected this proposal. However, shortly after that, we felt again that members of the government were speaking positively to the proposal. It is confusing when the members of the government are still promoting a positive view of a matter, but it is being voted down. However, the confusion becomes complete when you keep talking positively about a matter you have just voted against. In fact, it's both confusing and little real by the government to have one policy in the media and another in this room. The Progress Party supports that the government is, after all, taking one step in the right direction to bet on local beverage production up to 4.7 pst. alcohol content, and believe that this can help to give self-employed workers in food production opportunities for better resource use and higher income base. However, the Party considers that products with an alcoholic strength of more than 4,7 should also be able to be produced and marketed in its own establishments. The Party notes that at this stage there is no proposed restriction to the maximum period of indulgement in the law, and supports this. For the Progress Party, the lack of evidence of the effects of curtailment and the desire for municipal autonomy has been crucial for our view of this particular point. The Progress Party has therefore wanted the municipalities to have a greater opportunity to set their turnout times. The municipalities have the same information as the Stortinget, but also have knowledge of their local environment and challenges. Differentiated time of giving and opening we consider as an advantage and an opportunity for the municipalities, and therefore propose this. In this case, the Committee reiterates its wish that the Stockholm STAD project also be introduced in Norwegian cities during 2012. There is too often no follow-up to notifications of infringements of the rules of procedure, and we cannot accept this. This responsibility must be borne by the municipalities. For the Advance Party, strong and effective control of establishments marketing and producing alcohol has been important. We believe it is a suitable tool to prevent abuse, illegal operation and insecurity. Rapid reaction and treatment of issues such as the withdrawal of authorisation in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law will be preventive and exacerbating. Not all people tackle or tolerate alcohol, and for some it becomes a year-long addiction, with all the resulting disadvantages and health problems. At the same time, alcohol is a legal product that, when properly used, is a natural part of the lives and lives of many. It is therefore important for the Progress Party to pursue a balanced alcohol policy in relation to those who behave properly and comply with the laws and regulations. With regard to those who do not follow the rules of the game, we want a stricter and more uniform exercise of controls and penalties. It is unacceptable that a crime in one municipality can trigger a warning, while the same crime in the neighbouring municipality results in the withdrawal of the grant. The Progress Party has noted that national tools to be used by municipalities for control, but not national sanctions, are now to be developed. With such a policy, we can risk 430 different responses to one and the same crime. Finally, the Progress Party promotes a proposal for an embellishment of the regulatory framework for opening hours in election days, as we cannot see alcohol policy reasons for the existence of these rules. I would also like to take the opportunity to comment on the fact that it may be difficult to see the difference between information and advertising. During the World Cup, Grans Brewery was ordered to destroy 300,000 beer boxes. The reason was a inscription on the beer boxes that said, "Grans VM beer is a crack of beer that puts you in a fine VM mood." This was considered to be alcohol advertising. On the Vinmonopolet website, we can see a picture of a pizza and read: «The home layer of pizza can be varied infinitely according to taste and pleasure. Pizza with seafood goes well with white wine, like Chardonnay." So this is not advertising. It is difficult to see that this can be regarded as a non-discrimination of the actors. I didn't really get to the point, President. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2859	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Since it has now pleased the rapporteur to enter the Chamber, the President will give the floor to the President, if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2864	No, I can wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2869	One of the main societal challenges facing us in Norway is the increasing consumption of alcohol and other drugs. The drug problem is an important cause of both illness, disability and low social inclusion. Drug addicts are among those who have the worst living conditions in our society. There is a clear link between the total consumption of alcohol and health damage and social consequences, diseases, accidents and, above all, violence. Dependence on drugs causes major social problems, reduced living standards, poor health and nutrition. The proposal for a new national health and care plan and new public health law places a major focus on how to better prevent through municipal prevention services, including health and school health services. Medical and care services are important and necessary in reducing drug abuse and drug-related harm. The exclusive right of the monopoly of wine to retail sale alcoholic beverages by more than 4,7 p.m. alcohol is justified by the company's alcohol policy mission. By means of regulated turnover, not stimulating increased sales and strict control requirements for the sale, the Vinmonopole contributes to limiting the total consumption of alcohol in society. It is a prerequisite for the exclusive right that the company treats all suppliers of alcohol products in terms of market access, conditions of sale and supply. Purchases of sales goods are subject to a separate regulation on the purchasing activity of the Vinmonopole. The procurement of other goods and services shall be governed by the rules on public acquisitions. The Committee is concerned that notifications of infringements of the rules of procedure are not followed up by the penalties imposed by the alcohol law. The Committee would stress that it is a prerequisite for current legal regulation that municipalities take this part of their responsibilities seriously. It concerns the donation of minors, discrimination on the grounds of ethnic background, sexual orientation, disability, etc. The Committee is concerned that the control of outlets for alcohol is not effective. The threshold for granting grant shall be high, strict and fair, while the threshold for losing the grant must be low and consistent. The Committee considers that the opening-up of the wine monopoly scheme depends on the fact that the wine monopoly is a killer and service-oriented activity. The majority of the Committee considers that the Vinmonopoly has strengthened its position in Norwegian society by modernising its activity and its social policy base. The majority of the Committee would point out that regulation of access to alcoholic beverages through price, opening hours and availability has been well documented to affect total consumption in society. The majority are positive that the government is following up the decision of the big business to open up for the sale of self-produced products containing 4,75 pst. alcohol. We agree with this system, as the government proposes, with the result that the proposal is annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2895	What do you do if people agree with you, but still don't support you? In this case, we were to discuss the government's announced changes in the turnout times. Despite the fact that representatives from all the government parties strongly argued for this, the government, under pressure from the industry, chose not to follow the advice of the police, which was a reduction in the maximum time of donation, so that our cities could become safer. The Christian People's Party very much agrees with the statements of Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, who at the latest yesterday confirmed what he said in 2009: Skinkekut means less violence and more resources to the police that they can spend on other tasks. And I would like the representative Kjersti Toppe to stand by her statements in 2009, when she said that the Central Party will take responsibility and propose to limit the maximum drinking time in the alcohol law until noon. 2:00 a.m. I feel that the timing of donations is one of the strangest things this hall discusses. The trade unionists agree, the experiences of Norway and the rest of the world are unique, and even the majority in the United Kingdom have shown that they feel the same way. What still makes what can give us a safer city not become a reality? Why can't we land on the right side when the advice and experience are so clear and the majority is so clear? In the government case, few changes are proposed, however in a somewhat liberal direction. It should not surprise anyone that the Christian People's Party will warn against changes that increase availability and thus also alcohol consumption. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for a new simplified system for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages containing up to 4.7 % vol. alcohol for sale in its own establishment increases the availability of alcohol and will therefore vote against the government's proposal. I just want to remind you of the hearing opinion where the following supported a tightening of the caste times: Actis, the Children's Ombudsman, the Crime Prevention Council, the Rusfield Council in Norway, IOGT Norway, LO, the National Institute of Public Health, the Joint Police Association, several police districts, the Health Directorate, Sirus and the Medical Association. There are some people who have said that they support the changes. I mention the Brewery and Drinking Association, the Color Line, HSH, the NHO Travel Life, the Outdoor Industry and the Association of Wine and Beverage Suppliers. I think it's amazing that we don't listen to the professionals anymore, but that we let the industry decide such an important thing. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the matter, and look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2916	The representative Filip Rygg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2919	I would first regret that I was not present in the Chamber when the matter began. Things went much faster with the other matters than I had been given the impression earlier today. The matter we have to deal with today is a matter on which there has been a lot of discussion before it came. There have been quite considerable expectations of the case related to what was almost presented as a campaign case in the 2009 election campaign, namely that the government parties went in to restrict the municipality's ability to decide turnout time by one hour. On the right, I am very pleased that both the government and a clear majority of the committee now recognise that the conclusion made in the 2009 election campaign was a conclusion that there was insufficient professional justification that it did not have the kind of effect it was marketed under. But then it was quite special to experience the Question Time yesterday, where the Minister of Justice just as boldly argued for the proposal as his own government has gone away because there is no professional justification for it. The law we are now left with and are about to deal with today is a law that takes into account what has been a vast majority wish, and also a proposal from the Right that we are pleased that the government parties support, namely the proposal to open up sales in their own businesses of self-produced alcoholic beverages that contain up to 4.7 % vol. alcohol, which is now part of the law. It, together with allowing the auction of alcoholic beverages between private individuals under the auspices of the Vinmonopolet and the lifting of the ban on the auctioning of alcoholic beverages between traders, is the two most significant changes taking place in the law today. There's no revolution in the alcohol law we're standing before. It also shows that there is broad support in the Storting for a restrictive alcohol policy in Norway, where one places great emphasis on the importance of the wine monopoly and advertising ban in keeping alcohol consumption down, but at the same time acknowledges that alcohol is a legal product but not a regular product. That position is solid in Stortinget, and I am pleased about that. One of the proposals on which the Right and Advance Party unfortunately remain on their own is the proposal that the Wine Monopoly should be treated in the same way as shops which have a sales permit for the sale of alcohol. Today, I think it seems quite meaningless that it is possible to buy beer on Christmas Eve, Easter Night and Pentecost, but it is not possible to buy wine on the same days. The wine monopoly, which is very often located in shopping malls, next to the grocery store, has the roller blinds down when the grocery store is open. I think that the connection to the wine monopoly as an important alcohol policy tool is so strong in the population, precisely because the wine monopoly has been able to adapt to a new era, for example. through self-attended poles. If the wine monopoly had emerged today as it did in the 1970s, I think it would have been an important political issue in Norway to abolish the wine monopoly. Luckily, it's not like that. But I think we have to make sure that this development continues. An important contribution to it would be to let the wine monopoly open these days. Then there is still a ban on the sale of alcohol on election day. The size has been lifted several years ago by the ban on alcohol donation on election day. It seems relatively curative that alcohol sales are still banned on election day. It must be said to have only symbolic meaning. It's one of those things that some people get very surprised about -- you come on election day and you're going to buy wine or beer, at the store or at the Wine Monopoly, and then it's closed one day. It is a modernisation of the alcohol law that the Right Party and the Progress Party are unfortunately alone to propose. We're just having trouble understanding that the bulk of the population couldn't have joined it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2940	The President would otherwise point out that it may be an advantage to be in the Chamber when you have to speak on a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2943	Municipalities have great freedom and great responsibility to design locally adapted alcohol policies within their alcohol laws. This is central to the alcohol legislation in Norway. The introduction of a statutory maximum time for the donation of alcoholic beverages was agreed in 1997 on the basis of increasing hours of opening and giving. Municipalities are free to expand their time of donation beyond normal time, which is from 08 to 01, but within the maximum time that today is from 06 to 03. Municipalities are free to set a minimum turnout time than normal. So today it's only three hours a day, between hours. 3 p.m. and 3 p.m. 06, it is forbidden to serve all kinds of alcoholic beverages. That, I would say, is quite a liberal framework. The centre party does not support the Right and the Advance Party's proposals to expand the framework of what will in practice be the daily supply of alcohol in society. There must be more important health policy issues to fight for, including for the Right and the Progress Party. The centre party believes that regulated delivery times are a central and effective alcohol policy tool to reduce alcohol consumption and, consequently, the harm caused by alcohol use. We have programmed one hour reduction in maximum turnout time. This proposal was also part of the hearing. Many hearing authorities were in favour of the proposal. SIRUS concluded that: ‘The research literature in this field is not very strong, but, in some cases, findings from good studies point to the fact that a restriction of timing could lead to a reduction in social problems often associated with alcohol intoxication.’ The government does not oppose this proposal, but it does not propose it at this time. It is shown that within a short time, research will be provided that will be relevant to the question, as Sirus now looks at the relationship between the chosen and the turnout times in the 30 largest cities. Other issues that the government has assessed in this matter are national guidelines for the withdrawal of funding, evaluation linked to the use of provocation, the role of the police in granting cases and an assessment of the need for immediate withdrawal of funding. These proposals have good intentions, but they also raise important and fundamental counter-arguments. The center party agrees that we're not going to go into these proposals right now. What is most important is that the municipalities and the public authorities in the country must be responsible for the alcohol policy. The new public health sector, which the government has just launched, will hopefully contribute to increasing the focus on acoholic and spicy policies in a public health perspective, rather than in a business perspective. The centre party clearly believes it is a great potential to improve control and reaction practices in municipalities. Alcohol laws are already giving municipalities very good control and reaction capabilities. It is important that the municipalities use these. There is a need to increase knowledge and use of instruments. I think it is positive that the department is so clear that they should follow the local authorities' practice of controlling the sales and donations. All the parties to the Committee have stated in their comments that there is a clear commitment to today's legislation that the Commission takes this part of its responsibility seriously. A joint committee is concerned about messages that fractions of the rosary are not followed up by strict enough sanctions, as the alcohol laws put it. It is positive that municipalities should now be required to provide information on the management of alcohol laws. The centre party is positive that this case opens up to a change in law, so that one can sell self-produced alcohol containing up to 4.75 % by volume in its own right. We agree with the approval arrangements and the conditions proposed by one. The Right Party and the Advance Party propose to amend the alcohol laws so that the monopoly of wine is allowed to operate, among others. on Christmas Eve, on Pentecost and on the election day to be equated with the store. I have not understood that this is a popular requirement, and that people have trouble understanding what time the wine monopoly is open or not open. The centre party is very opposed to this proposal. The Christian People's Party's proposal on the labelling of alcoholic beverages is a positive one, and the government has announced in the National Health and Welfare Plan that this will be assessed in the context of the paper on drugs policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2968	I take the floor to stress a comment in the committee position which the whole committee is behind, and which has been mentioned by several, namely the local authorities' responsibility to follow up the search sites, follow up on compliance with the specter rules and the specter legislation. When this has been mentioned, it is because you have received messages about, and registered, that this has not been followed up by the municipalities to a large extent enough. Then it is important that the Minister of Health points that out to the municipal sector. But then it also comes to the comment, which has a dimension in addition to alcohol policy, namely that the Committee also stresses that it can point to examples of discrimination based on ethnic, sexual, functional and similar backgrounds. It has also been mentioned here, because unfortunately in this country we have observed, and recorded that this type of discrimination occurs – not among the large majority, but unfortunately in very many places. And that should also be a reason for being able to withdraw appropriations, and the municipalities have a special responsibility to ensure that this is the case. I want to say that it is with pleasure that I see that a few days ago, Trondheime decided that special attention should be paid to that part of compliance with the alcohol law and the gift regulations. So this is my message in this debate, that the municipalities also have an important responsibility in ensuring that there is no discrimination at the tips.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2979	I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposals in the proposal now before the Storting. Many important changes are proposed in the alcohol law. These include: facilitating sales in own activities of alcoholic beverages up to and including 4,7 % by volume, auctioning under the auspices of the Vinmonopolet, clarification of age regulations and facilitating the collection of statistical information. It is good that the Storting should now consider the proposal for a system of authorisation for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages up to and including 4.7 % by volume for sales in its own establishment. The proposed scheme is equal to the grant scheme in its own activities. In this way, we can facilitate local production without conflicting with important public health and without challenging the wine monopoly system. It is important that the Committee approves a system of auctioning under the auspices of the Vinmonopolet. In order to ensure the legitimacy of alcohol policy, legal outlets must exist. Auction mechanisms will help to ensure the proper marketing of alcoholic beverages. However, in order to ensure public health, it is important not to open up trading channels to a greater extent than is necessary. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the requirement that potential buyers register for access to information on such auctions. I would like to say a little about giving time and giving control. The government has not made any proposals to reduce the turnout time now. From international research, we know that there is a clear link between availability and the extent of injury in general in terms of turnout times, but we have limited knowledge of the consequences of minor changes in the turnout time here in Norway. The State Institute for Drug Research, Sirus, is investigating the relationship between violence and turnout times in the 30 largest cities of Norway. The information provided by this survey will be an important contribution to future estimations of turnout times, both centrally and for municipalities. As regards the control of appropriations, I share the Committee's concerns. This is an important area of action, and fortunately we are on the right track. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the attention paid to improving the control of selling and giving times. We will continue to focus on this in the years to come, within the framework of the alcohol law. Central authorities may, and shall, facilitate good control. However, it is absolutely central that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility in this area. They are responsible for carrying out checks on sales and donations. I have noticed that the Committee wants to introduce STAD in Norwegian cities from 2012. The STAD project got good results in Stockholm. It is based on three main elements: training, cooperation and supervision. So we're going to get inspiration and experience from STAD. Then I believe it is important to assess whether there are specific aspects of Norwegian legislation, distribution of responsibilities and already started projects that make it appropriate to adapt the model somewhat. We need to focus on putting in place schemes that fit all municipalities, regardless of size and challenges, and I have therefore asked the Health Directorate to consider how we can draw on experience from the Swedish STAD project. I want to come back to Stortinget with information on how this can best be done, when the Health Directorate has assessed all aspects of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e2998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3001	In my post, I was in Grans Bryggeris World Cup beer, and Svein Flätten from the Right has previously sent a written question to the Minister of Health about this matter. In that reply, the Minister of Health said that the Health Directorate and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have set up a group to assess the current guidance material related to the advertising ban. The Progress Party meets a review and debate on that particular topic, and wonders when the Minister of Health believes that this work will be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3006	When it comes to what's advertising, and what's information, it's not always very easy to separate one from the other. In fact, the advertising ban itself is very important to maintain. And then I see that there can be transitions between these that can be quite demanding. However, it is equally important that we maintain the ban on advertising and do what we can to maintain it, both in terms of the wine monopoly – to maintain the monopoly system – and in terms of what has been a very important part of the alcohol policy in Norway, namely to ensure that advertising also contributes to a limited consumption of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3011	It is a pleasure that there is a decoration in the alcohol law, and it is a pleasure to remove some of the antiquarian schemes that were linked to both the Wine Monopoly and the Gift Times. But there are several of the schemes that are still incomprehensible to some. Let me give you an example: it is not given that when election day comes, the Council of State – or, for that matter, the President – is ready in advance to serve champagne or vodka. It goes on to say that for some it is an independent idea to have the opportunity to adapt purchases to the mood there and there. Does the Council of State consider that there are general preventive reasons for not opening up the sale of alcohol via the Vinmonopoly on election day?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3018	When it comes to buying champagne or vodka, it is clear from the Right that the wine monopoly should be open after the polls are closed, because you cannot know the results for a long time. And the next day, the monopoly of wine is open again. I understand that you can draw this very far. There has been a rule that alcohol is not sold on election days and on some other days. So I can't see that there's any people's requirement to change this. Like the wine monopoly is now set up, where the wine monopoly has outlets in many more municipalities, there is actually quite good availability of alcohol. Nor can I see that this should be the biggest problem in terms of changes to the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3025	The Council of State has, in its reply and in the past, demonstrated that a greater amount of knowledge is being gathered. I would like to ask the Council of State if there are two issues, namely whether the government can propose a tightening of the grant periods in the current period, and whether there are nutritional or health considerations that would be the most weighty in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3030	As Minister of Health and Health, I have a responsibility for the alcohol law and alcohol policy in a health perspective. Then I listened very carefully to Rygg's posts instead, and then Rygg thought that there was a very unison feedback that you should reduce the turnaround times. Then I just have to refer to the hearing opinion that came from the city that both Rygg and I came from, namely Bergen, where you start with: ‘maintenance of local self-government is essential’. In fact, here is the Christian People's Party in the City Council together with the Right and the Advance Party. Bergen has put a lot of emphasis on the fact that it should be up to the municipality itself to set the limits within maximum time. It's not that even if you have a maximum time, you have to use it. It's a choice that the municipality makes. But we'll look very carefully at this when we get the results of the SIRUS study.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3040	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3045	The prohibition period was no success. There is no one in the debate so far who has seen the aspect that the outdoor industry is actually one of our leading entertainment industries, that the outdoor industry is actually one of the most important meeting places we have. When Kristiansand municipality reduced the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2, it had the dramatic effect on the industry of reducing turnover by between 25 pst. and 35 pst. There are several thousand – yes, tens of thousands – people in the entire country who are employed in the outdoor industry. There are hundreds of thousands who each week take advantage of the offer that exists, popularly speaking ‘in the city’. It is not one who has so far taken the floor to see that point – it disappoints. However, there have been several people who have talked about local self-government. But what is local self-government with state maximum time? And what does that mean in plain text? The problem is that people are sent home with a party vote to get them to hang on. That's the essence of a state maximum time. That means you get cab cows, you get large collections of people at kiosks and other outlets, and you get more trouble than you need. When the police argue to restrict today's times of gift in some places, they do so because a state maximum time is taken into account, not because that's what the primary desire is. Had the municipalities themselves had the opportunity to determine time for donation, we would have had significant differences from today. There is no doubt that right-wing Oslo had a much more liberal policy and also a geographical approach to it, such as: had ended up with nightclubs connected to the center, which had meant that people had the opportunity to stay out as long as they wanted, and to go home at the time they wanted, and not least that it was the outdoors themselves who stood for control – with a strong bulwark control and with a strong control of who is being given total permission to give, but in legal forms. What the vast majority of people do not see, but are quite obvious, is that when people are forced home, giving is more often done both to overly intoxicated people and to minors, and there are more problems associated with it. And we know very well that housewrecks come with housewreck at this point in time. It's also interesting to note that a city like Haugesund reduced the turnip times, but the year after, the violence increased. There are no unique decisions here that can be taken on the basis of the statistics we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3055	I'll just briefly account for the Left's vote in this matter. It hangs in and out with the views of the Left earlier today when there were other opening hours. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of proposal No. 1, which is going to give more power locally. In this way, I think you get better solutions, you take care that in Norwegian society you have different needs, that society is different and has different challenges. A few years ago, this city was ruled by powers other than those now ruled. Then we also had a different tipping policy, and we had a monopoly policy in the taxi industry. At that time it died approx. four in taxi queues each year, due to conflicts that occurred when everyone was going out at the same time, all were going home at the same time and the taxi monopoly made it minimal with taxis to pick up. Therefore, I believe that when you have different challenges locally, you should also be able to decide locally how to tackle the challenges. Therefore, municipalities should have the power to determine the gift rules. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which we only consider to be a normal, logical development in relation to all the other decisions made in this room. I have to say that when we look at both giving and other alcohol sales, it is strange to say that you should not be allowed to shop on election day. There are also changes in the electoral law that make it hard to show people away. It's not about us taking away the choice for people. I think this is logical consequences of previous decisions, so we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3071	It is revealing to the Christian People's Party when the Right Representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark emphasizes the industry as one of his main arguments against a tightening of the timings. We believe it must be quite clear that there are no commercial interests that should weigh more heavily when assessing the maximum time of donation. There we very much agree with the representative Kjersti Toppe, who is drawing out the health perspective. Then it is equally amazing that we do not land on the same conclusion. I choose to interpret the Council of State positively when she does not respond to whether there will be a new proposal during this period. We believe that the facts will eventually lead to a decision that will make our cities safer. In Bergen, you've reduced the pitch times by half an hour. It reduced violence, and the police say that the relationship is crystal clear. This reduction is so important to look at and so important to the people involved that the Storting has a responsibility for it. I'm optimistic on behalf of what's going to happen in the future. We are responding to the knowledge that the Council of State places on, and believe that the facts here too will lead to a decision that will make our cities safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3080	Now, the situation is such that the Left, Right and Advance Party today are proposing to increase or eliminate the maximum turnout time. I said in my post instead that today it is only three hours a day that it is not allowed to serve. This appears to be too narrow a frame to operate a local gesticulation policy. I think it's incomprehensible. Then to Filip Rygg and the Christian People's Party. There's been some criticism of the Center Party that we haven't gotten through a reduction. But seriously, now the situation is that if one looks around at the other parties, then the Christian People's Party must come to us, because we're out of our way to do this in the future. We're not going in to remove maximum scan time. The situation is quite different than maybe both me and Filip Rygg could want us. In the end, it's the way the Council of State was saying that things are difficult. The Christian People's Party is in a plurality in Bergen City, which has not only said in the hearing that local self-government is important, but they say that a reduction in maximum turnout time will lead to an increase in power. That's the message we got from Bergen City. It shows how difficult it is. But I want the Christian People's Party to join the team in this matter. We have the same vision, and to get safer cities, we need to work together towards the center and towards the red-green. That certainly shows the debate today quite clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3089	If we're to have safer cities, we need more police in the streets. Then we have to have a visible police force, a police force present where things happen, and we can't push everyone out at the same time. That's what Trine Skei Grande was talking about: good statistics refer to when the red-greens ran Oslo, what it had to mean when it was restricted times and crowds related to both sausage and kebabut sales, and for that matter, taxi stops. It naturally leads to people being in an excited mood by being sent home before they want to, then meeting a queue. Nobody likes it, naturally enough. Once again, for some people, violence and aggression are the outcome. I'm very sorry, but unfortunately, when the police aren't there either, there's an outcome you've seen too many times. For the Right, we don't have the business interests as priority number. 1st@item: inlistbox Our main interest is people most. As I said in my main post, it's the hundreds of thousands of people who use the tips as entertainment and as a meeting place, we have first and foremost in mind. There's not a single country that I know, that doesn't have some kind of night shift. Most people have a normal browsing time that is around Norway, but in addition, nightclubs are offered. A nightclub in Norway has been forced through the state maximum time to close the service at 1 p.m. 3:00 p.m., and the place closes shortly afterwards. It's not a nightclub for most people. I think it's problematic that those who ultimately make the decisions relating to giving times, don't move out at this point in time, either are out on those outdoors that we're actually talking about. It is also – once again – amazing to hear the Central Party talk about local self-government when it means that it should be within a set of defined state legislation. For me, state legislation is not compatible with local self-government. I want a real autonomy, an autonomy that is allowed to decide whether to stop giving at noon. 24.00, or, for that matter, run it all day, if that's what you want. It should be possible to do the same in the case of alcohol sales at the store. There's no reason to assume a state maximum time for that either. To Asphjell, who said earlier that there was a clear correlation between the number of sales, prices, tipping times and consumption, I would say that there is once again a clear link between restrictions on the number of sales, home burnings, drinking at home parties, house noises, etc. So there's a context that goes to the highest degree both ways, and I would like a few more as the entertainment argument in the discussion as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3104	I just have to say that I am not going well for all the arguments of the Right Party and the Progressive Party. But it was the Center Party that made me take the floor, because I think the wit is pretty well distributed, and democracy is a pretty nice way to rule the country. If you don't want a gift in a municipality, it's fine with me. Then you pick those local politicians who don't want to give up. And if you want a big difference in giving, you pick local politicians who decide. I may admit that I'm fanatical about local democracy, but that the Central Party is going to leave the Left in what we've been through together for now, and with such a great enthusiasm, it shows that there's a huge enthusiasm of the Party for government over the municipalities. I believe that the wit is well distributed across this country. I believe that many local politicians have good visions of how their local communities can be. I think they have a lot more knowledge of how a good outdoor life works in balance, and all this I think they're going to be allowed to decide, because they're the best to decide this, because they're the closest, and because we're in favour of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3113	It was the representative of Skovholt Gitmark's two posts that made me take the floor, because it was a tribute to a liberal search policy almost without closing hours. I was standing here in Stortinget -- it's not very long ago -- the day after there had been a Focus program on television that showed some of the tipping, or we'll say the crossing, in Oslo, and the extreme problem that was outside the tipping points. It's not the police's responsibility to comply with the tipping rules in Oslo. That's what the Municipality of Oslo is going to control, and of course, it's the tipping points that are going to comply with the law in that context. It is important to clarify this, because visible police in the streets are important – we are all for that – but it is not necessary for the police to take over absolutely all tasks. This is the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo and the local politicians, and I am very concerned that if we first have a maximum time until noon. 3:00 p.m., Oslo is free to shut down both hours. 23:00, 24:00, 01.00 and 3:00, if you want to do that, and differentiate within these limits. So it can't be that hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3120	The representative Filip Rygg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3123	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark says that more police need to get a safer city. This is the Christian People's Party and I fully agree. But it may be primarily about how we use the resources, and that's exactly what's the main point in this case: that with today's rules, we have a crazy use of resources in relation to the police as well. Skovholt Gitmark also says that the Right represents most people. 62 pst. Most people want a reduction, and the majority of the municipalities who responded also wanted a reduction. So it's true that there are different opinions about the questions. But there's a majority of people, and then my question to the Right is, who is it that you're really representing, when you're so eager to ask for longer give-times?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3128	We have few major debates left in Norway that engage both the head and the heart. The best debates in my time have been the EEC/EU debates and the alcohol debates. Alcohol is an extremely addictive molecule. I'm not abstinent, but this chemical fact can actually affect my thoughts and my judgements when I participate in such debates. The representative Bent Höie said that alcohol is a legal substance, but doesn't have to be a common drug in our society, and I think that's what I was saying. In further debates, in further work on these issues, we can choose to look at the alcohol challenges with very scientific glasses, or only with normal, well-open eyes. If I use the last one, I want to draw out three relationships. First, I want to repeat: alcohol is one of the most addictive substances in our time. Alcohol is also the biggest health challenge in our time. We look at the challenges related to drugs in the street. The challenges associated with alcohol are essentially hidden away at home. The third thing I want to do is that this often affects innocent people. There are a large number of children in Norway who experience insecurity and fear in their growth. This is often linked to times that for most of us are pleasant and good: for weekends and for celebrations. There will be thousands of children who in the feast we now enter and shall rejoice over, experience the opposite of joy because of insecurity and fear in their homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3141	Peter Skovholt Gitmark has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3145	There's a reason to ask the 62 pst. who want to reduce the turnout times, about how many of those who actually use the offer represented by the tipping points. To the Council of State: Those present at the tipping points see that there are both guards and door guards responsible for the security of the premises. It's minimal with fractions at the actual tipping points. It is in my own municipality of origin a little trouble associated with the exit at the tipping points, precisely because you have competent door guards. But if the doorkeepers are not competent, or, for that matter, if you move on to kiosk cows without guards or to stops for taxis, then you get a lot of trouble, especially when the visible police are not there. The representative Are Health is quite right: the main problems related to alcohol are at home. The fact that we from the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are now involved in expanding or wanting to expand the seasons will not rock it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3154	I hear in the debate that the Right and Advance Party do not agree with the tightening up of the hours at the outdoors, for example. until 3:00 p.m. has had a positive effect, such as a reduction in the use of violence. The government parties believe that there are clear contexts, but we will await the outcome of the Sirus investigation in 30 cities in the country. Trondheim Municipality has done this within the regulations they have, and there have been positive effects. It has not helped to increase the number of queues at taxi stations or more violence at taxi stations, but it has helped people to get out of town a little earlier. Instead of young people going out to town at 4:00 p.m. 01 and 02 and 03 at night, they might go out one and two hours earlier. I think that must be a positive development. As far as local democracy is concerned, I very much agree with the Left that we should cultivate local democracy and that we have many elected people who do a very good job. When the Smoking Act was introduced in Norway and it should not be allowed to smoke in restaurants etc., we could have used the same argument that local democracy could be involved in deciding here as well. But no, it is important in the state's health policy that we draw up some frameworks that contribute to better prevention, better public health, and that there should be a framework around how local democracy in the country's 430 municipalities should work. Local democracy also has the ability to say how many gift points you're going to have in a municipality. It's important to check out hamsters. It's important when you get a gift certificate that it's being observed. It should also be difficult to get it back if you break the rules related to this, if it is the gift of minors, etc. I very much agree with what Are Health said, that alcohol is one of the most addictive things we have. How, then, should we contribute? Are there longer opening times, more reasonable alcohol, greater availability to help us get less consumption? Otherwise in Europe, we now see consumption of alcohol falling, while Norway is one of the countries in Europe where we see consumption rising. Despite the fact that we have less consumption in Norway than elsewhere in Europe, we are going in the wrong direction. How are we going to prevent or stop this and help us get better prevention? Otherwise, it is important, as has been said, with good vigilance in the patios. They must have good control, and not least those who give gifts must have a letter attached to this with alcoholic beverages, and they must observe what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3185	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3194	Without the contribution of the pharmaceutical industry to research in medicine and health in Norway, we would not have been there today. The status as of 2009 was 10 pharmaceutical companies that produced medicinal products and those employed at the lower end of 3000 persons. Not only does this industry have the potential to contribute to improving people’s lives and health through the products they develop, but they will also be able to contribute to Norway’s welfare system by creating jobs and thereby tax revenues. The proposers want the research effort of the authorities to be seen more closely in the context of industrial policy by following up a strategy for increased value creation and value-added, as well as a good positioning of the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry both nationally and internationally. For example, the experience with Oslo Cancer Cluster also shows the potential of the Norwegian biomedical industry in a global perspective. The proposers believe that Norwegian authorities should develop a comprehensive and long-term strategy for biomedicine. It is stated that such a strategy should include a targeted and holistic instrumentation with a more focused focus on utility and commercialisation. One of the points referred to is that the incentive schemes to stimulate increased research into health care should also include cooperation projects between industry and public health. It is argued that the sector requires close cooperation with the academia and the health sector and, in addition, depends on the interaction with the health sector in the development process in order to ensure the quality of the products. To this end, it is important that biomedicine is also recognised as an industry and that it focuses on its responsibilities and opportunities to create jobs, and thereby also values for owners and tax revenues for society. To this end, I am pleased that the entire Committee considers that it is fully possible to assess the above-mentioned schemes separately and as a specific area, taking into account support also for other sectors and industries. Therefore, it is important to increase the focus on access to capital at all stages of the development of the company and, in particular, of the product. The Progress Party is also very pleased that the entire Committee believes that an important success factor for the success of biomedicine will be that Norway is also in the forefront of tried and tested medicine and treatment. The Jonas case is a good example of Norway’s dependence on tried and tested medicine. Medical and treatment abroad approved for trial use can, and is, a last option for many. This is in very many cases excluded from Norwegian patients as an option. Norway is well advanced in general, but in this area we are a retard. That's not good. It is not good for Norway, it is not good for industry and last but not least: it is not good for the patient. This proposal, treatment and consultation refers to the full need for a new pharmaceutical notification, so that the Storting can see the pharmaceutical policy together and thus also strengthen the biomedical instrument. In this case, everyone has been concerned that the system for the exchange of medicinal products is being maintained and that the purpose of the introduction is respected. At the same time, it is important that the exchange list system ensures customers medicinal products with the same active substance and that patients can receive an individual assessment when medical reasons so warrant. For the Advancement Party, it is also important that the choice of medicine is basically a matter between the patient and one's doctor. The party notes that everyone believes that the exchange mechanism should be assessed, as it is now more than 10 years since the bill was adopted by the Stortinget. On this basis, I will be able to address the proposals that are in the matter, and I consider them to be referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3220	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3223	Norway has one of the world’s best full-time services, and we spend more money every year in both primary and specialist healthcare. With the Interaction Reform, the government will ensure a comprehensive and coherent offering of good quality with high patient safety and adapted to the individual user. The Government and the Labour Party are committed to ensuring and developing a modern, safe and accessible health service for all. It's supposed to be people's state of health that determines which offer you get, not the background, the economy or where you live. The intentions and progress of the interaction reform will and shall be relevant to the development of hospitals. A joint and joint offer must be developed under public authority. Basic welfare services shall not be privatised or commercialised. Proposals include important questions and proposals in the document on the Norwegian strategy on how to continue the government's efforts to develop biological medicinal products in particular. Like the Government and the Council of State, the Committee is concerned that medical and health research remains a priority area in Norway. The Committee considers that the special focus on biomedical research and nutrition-related research is important. The combination of research, clinical treatment, good registers and cooperation with industrial and commercial actors has proved to be a good model. The majority of the Committee will refer to the Council of State's reply of 2 February 2011, stressing: ‘Medical and health research is, and shall remain, a priority area of government research policy and innovation policy’.» The follow-up by the Government to the Research Communication through various programmes and activities shows that the government is working on a national strategy for biotechnology. The Committee also considers that Norway differs in the field of medicinal products in an international context and that safe, predictable and internationally competitive framework conditions are a prerequisite for success. The current exchange scheme is important for saving society and individuals for costs, but the scheme must, of course, withstand an international comparison, while primarily addressing the patient’s needs for the right medicinal product. The Committee refers to the Council of State's replies, including: read: «Since the medicinal product area is in continuous development and it has now been more than 10 years since the adoption of the exchange mechanism by the Stortinge, I see that there is a need for a new review of the legal basis.» [[...]] The majority of the Committee does not see the need for a completely new pharmaceutical regime, but for the Council of State to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner after the notified review of the legal basis for the exchange scheme has been implemented. The Committee is concerned that the system for the exchange of medicinal products is maintained and that the purpose of the introduction is safeguarded. This system ensures increased competition and lower prices of medicinal products for consumers. The proposal for a national health and care plan for the period 2011 to 2015 proposes the development of an overall national strategy for health and care research and innovation. This strategy has been given the job title ‘Healthcare 2021’. It would be natural for biomedical research and industrial development to be assessed in this context. Against this background, I would ask, on behalf of the majority, that the proposal for a long-term strategy for biomedicine be annexed to the Protocol and that the Council of State return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner once the review of the legal basis has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3255	This proposal was promoted in the light that the proposers believe that Norway has a great opportunity to play a role in biomedicine, because we have an emerging biomedical research and business environment, and because we have a health care system that is capable of cooperating with the industry in the development of new knowledge. It should have been made possible for this to become an important industry in Norway. But this is not just business policy. It is also important to bear in mind that the pharmaceutical industry is primarily involved in patient treatment and that very much of the treatment currently taking place in the healthcare sector is based on research and development carried out by this industry. Unfortunately, industry has all too often been exposed to very different conditions from the core business: helping people to recover or to live better with disease. There is reason to be pleased with the setting that we have for treatment today. I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a very thorough job, and also for having managed to bring together such a broad political majority. This position is largely characterised by the fact that there is a unanimous committee which clearly leads a significantly more offensive policy in this area than has been the case in the past. The Committee's position is also much more offensive than the initial letter of the Council of State to the Committee. I just want to, for example. present the comment that says: ‘The Committee notes that the recording round calls for an overall strategy, but does not share the view that this recording may wait for any follow-up. The Committee sees the need for a faster and more proactive approach to this research and industry.» This is, in fact, the comment of a unanimous committee on the response of the Council of State. That means that I feel that there is a unanimous committee that is very impatient in this area. I would also like to point out that the Committee believes that it is fully possible to consider the issue of different industrial policy instruments for this industry as a separate and specific area, while taking into account other industries and other sectors – i.e. much more offensive than what was initially government policy. Not least, it is very gratifying that the Committee considers that the response of the Council of State clearly demonstrates the need for a new notification of medicinal products, so that the Stortinge can see the pharmaceutical policy together and thus strengthen the biomedical instrument. I look forward to the Council of State explaining when Stortinget might expect such a big message. Since this matter was dealt with in the Committee, it has also been decided in respect of the exchange scheme relating to biomedicine. It would therefore be interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of this, precisely because that judgment underlines the importance of a new review of the exchange scheme and not least a political anchor on how to deal with biomedicine. In this respect, the State apparatus has clearly taken into account an interpretation of the existing law to which the judicial system has not given its consent. It makes sense then that the type of assessment returned to a political discussion, as the Committee also stated in the vote, by believing that it is important for a review of the exchange mechanism, because it is now ten years since its adoption. So even though someone here from the opposition's side is promoting suggestions, there's every reason to be satisfied with a setting that has such broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3279	In my letter to the Committee dated 2 February this year, I point out that medical and health research and innovation have been promoted as priority areas of government research policy and innovation policy, and that this is followed up by various activities. The proposal for a new national health and care plan for 2011-2015 highlights the focus on health research and innovation – including biomedicine – as an important part of the ministry’s work to ensure quality and knowledge-based practices in healthcare. It is proposed that an overall national strategy for health and care research and innovation, currently called Health Care 2021, should be developed. I still believe that biomedical research and nutrition development should be assessed in this context. I have noticed that the Committee wants a more offensive approach to biomedical research and industry. A comprehensive national biotechnology strategy is now being developed in line with the findings of the Research Communication. The Ministry of Knowledge is in charge of this work. The strategy shall provide a good framework for the further development of biotechnology research and innovation. It would be natural to mention biomedicine in this strategy. The Committee points out that it is important that Norway is in the forefront of clinical studies and trial treatment. The Ministry has worked systematically in recent years to facilitate clinical studies. Norway has also taken initiatives to establish Nordic cooperation on clinical studies through the Nordic Council of Ministers to further increase the scope of clinical studies. We also have a long-term focus on innovation and industrial development in healthcare in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The question of access to capital and future public funding and support schemes for Norwegian biomedical industry development must be considered in the context of support to other sectors and industries. In my letter of reply, I stressed that the most socio-economically profitable projects should be supported through available schemes – regardless of industry or sector. We have investment funds that facilitate early-stage investment capital, like Investinor AS. I am aware that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade will make proposals to provide Investinor with additional investment capital and proposals to establish new nationwide seed funds. The investment fund shall be reviewed in this context. I believe that the considerations addressed by the Committee's proposal have been taken into account through various activities and initiatives already under way, for example. work on a national biotechnology strategy and that the government therefore has a proactive policy in this area. The scheme for the exchange of medicinal products in pharmacies means that the patient may be supplied with a cheaper medicinal product than the one prescribed by the doctor if the Agency has considered that the medicinal products are medically equivalent. Access to exchange by the pharmacy is an important prerequisite for the benefit of public health and patients from lower medicinal product prices. I am therefore pleased that the Committee points out the importance of maintaining this scheme. I have asked the Swedish Medical Products Agency to review the legal basis for the exchange scheme, as I informed them in the reply letter. I have noticed that the Committee believes it is essential that such a review be prioritised. I will follow this up to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, and I feel that this meets what the representative Asphjell here points out as the majority's view. The pharmaceutical industry has raised several times the issue of the patent protection of old medicinal products with Norwegian authorities. The concern of industry is based on the patent law as it existed before 1992. I assume that legislation and practices in Norway in this area meet all international obligations and ensure effective protection of inventions. I note that the majority in the committee subscribes to the government's view on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3309	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3312	I want to pursue the question of proven medicine a little bit more. I recorded in the answer that something had been mapped here, and they had taken the initiative – at least in the Nordic context – but I think this is a little too small. What was expressed very, very clearly in the hearings, especially from the Oslo Cancer Cluster, at Einarsson, was that this is absolutely essential, not least for the patient, but also primarily for the industry, in order to develop further. We see today many patients who get no because the treatment or medicine is not approved in Norway. You can get it abroad, and then you often get no when you apply for it. My question is: what concrete plans does the Minister have for us to become an offensive country that is also leading in the field of tried and tested medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3321	This is important to me, it's important to the government. And it's important that we have trials of proven medicine also in Norway. It is important for Norwegian patients. So it is often considered more appropriate to have a larger population. That's why we have gone into this Nordic cooperation and viewed it as very important, because then a larger population is just getting tried and tested treatment. The government spends considerable money on this and will continue to do so. It's important. But in general, I would say that the authorisation of medicinal products is in parallel. It is not the case that Norway is lagging behind in the authorisation of medicinal products. In principle it shall take place in parallel. In this case, it is not always the case that there are medicinal products still on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3330	The Committee states in its opinion that: «considers the response of the Council of State with all clarity to the need for a new notification of medicinal products, so that the Storting can see the medicinal policy as a whole and thus also strengthen the biomedical instrument». How will the Council of States follow up this unanimous comitology?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3341	I perceived the representative asphjell so that what was important was to go through the legal basis for the exchange arrangement. It is also important for the Committee, as I understand it, that we carry out experimental work, that we increase and try to do so. As far as the other strategy is concerned, I believe that I also presented my statement. I believe that biomedical research will come under Health Care 2021. We have also mentioned medicinal products in the health and care plan and will also do so in the new Quality and Patient Safety Alert.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3348	It is difficult to understand the statements made by the Council of State differently from the fact that the Council of State has not intended to follow up on the majority opinion. That's why I almost have to quote the majority comment: ‘The Committee considers that the response of the Council of State clearly demonstrates the need for a new notification of medicinal products, so that the Storting can see the pharmaceutical policy as a whole and thus also strengthen the biomedical instrument.’ Is this government going to promote a new pharmaceutical notification for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3358	It is, as I say, fully possible to address the pharmaceutical policy in the new communication on quality and patient safety. We have also mentioned this in the national health and care plan. The pharmaceutical notification that we have, on which we base our policy, is not very old. As I said, I understood the response of the representative asphjell so that it is primarily about getting a review of the legal basis for the exchange scheme. I will, of course, follow-up and take into account key issues and new issues in relation to the pharmaceutical policy in the documents I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3365	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3370	This matter has undoubtedly a health policy aspect, as demonstrated by the Council of State's response and the subsequent exchange of replies. But it also has, to the most extent, a business policy and a research policy side. If we look at research in Norway, it is very good that happens. Sometimes when we have research policy debates, some of us want a little stronger, more strategically correct bets for a small country like Norway. However, there is no doubt that Norway uses large public resources in research as it does. The Ministry of Knowledge has just published the 2011 Research Survey. That is the first of its kind and will become an annual phenomenon hereafter, as I understand it. It is very clear that medical research and health research are, in isolation, the second largest field after ICT in terms of the amount of funds invested. However, if you see biotechnology along with health research and medical research, this will be the largest area, with about a quarter of the total. 8 B.C.E. kr in total public research effort. There's a lot of money. What strikes us when we compare Norway to other countries — and we do not have to go beyond our Nordic neighbours — in both medical research and research in general, is the enormous difference in research results, in the sense that we look at the commercialisation results. In the case of patenting, and in the case of other types of commercialisation, Norway is in a dissident jumbo place compared to most European countries and with all Nordic countries. There is obviously an enormous potential for obtaining larger results from Norwegian research. That is what this proposal for a representative is at the heart of this industry. However, the Right has also promoted several other proposals, which generally insist that we want to strengthen research efforts in the private and industrial sectors. We want stronger interaction and cooperation between private and publicly funded research institutions. We want a stronger commercialization pressure within the academy. Today, there is almost no incentive at all to strengthen the commercialization pressure within the academy. So the potential is very big, but we still can't get it out. This proposal for a representative is one of several that the Right is promoting in order to be better able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3385	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3634]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3401	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Asphjell has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3412	Increased security and less crime are important for the government and the Workers' Party. That is why we want to fight and prevent crime – good criminal policies are good welfare policies. The representative proposal of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Laila Davøy and Hans Olav Syversen contains a number of proposals for measures to improve urban security. We are all committed to increasing the security of our cities – yes, in all communities – and we agree on several points in the Committee's position. As a result, several of the original proposals no longer take place, as the intentions have been met by a majority of comments or committee comments. The majority of the Committee subscribes to the Minister of Health and Welfare's assessments in the letter attached to the referral and to the Council of State's reference to the fact that a number of the proposed measures in the proposal for a representative have been dealt with earlier by the Stortinget or are under consideration in the Grand Duchy in connection with Prop. 48 L for 2010–2011, on the amendment of the alcohol law, which we have just dealt with. It's important to notice that over 60 pst. prison inmates are addicted to drug use and a high proportion of crime is related to drug use. It is then obvious that the best thing to do is to treat people’s drug addiction than to re-enter the criminal system. The government will strengthen the provision of health care, and the Labour Party decided at its national meeting to set up several drug treatment centres. We want more use of alternative responses, such as community punishment, electronic home-soning, housing in treatment institutions, etc. It is care to make demands, and we will combine alternative forms of reconciliation to bring people back to society with strict rules for leave and parole for the hardest criminals. We also find reason to recall that municipalities are now obliged to take crime prevention considerations into account in their spatial planning, following the changes made to the Planning and Building Act. Where disagreements are first and foremost expressed in the Committee, there is disagreement between the Progress Party and, on the one hand, the Right and the majority in the Committee on Alcohol Availability. All except the members of the Progress Party refer to the clear and well documented relationship between availability and consumption and the relationship between alcohol consumption and health damage. Furthermore, the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party believe that the police's view should be decisive in the matter of whether or not to grant a sales and gift grant, and that other instruments are necessary to reduce violence and unrest. That part of the setting ends the progress part and the right part does not. The right hand side and the front side do not agree that the reduction of the turnout time at the outdoors from 9.00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.00 has had a positive effect through less use of violence. We think it's clear contexts, but we want to await the investigations that are now being conducted by Sirus in 30 of the cities of the country, before we decide whether the time should be changed in the law. A Joint Committee considers that more police presence is essential for everyone to feel increased security and meets the results of the Minister of Justice performance reform 2010–2013. It is also important that police are motivated to increase prevention and security-creating efforts through the monitoring parameters of the agency. The Committee considers, inter alia, that: further that there should be zero tolerance and rapid fines for minor offences. It is therefore positive that the 2011 appropriations have increased in this area. Several cities in Norway are looking towards Stockholm and Sweden in their efforts to prevent drug problems related to outdoors, and the last in the series is Bergen. Fewer crowded people on the street in the Bergen centre at night are the goal, says Bengt Angeltvedt, who is the section head of the police department. The philosophy behind the STAD project is close cooperation between the actors in the nightlife and the police, as well as stronger control and training of restaurant staff. In a comprehensive strategy to prevent violence, the STAD project is one of many measures that can be used, but different measures of different content are important because there is no phase in how this is to be tackled. The working party and the government are concerned with preventing better. Therefore, the prevention strategy, the Community – security – cohesion, is important in order to further develop police councils and to establish measurement criteria for prevention. With good welfare offers for all, many of the starting blocks of a criminal runway can be removed. The majority of the committee's recommendation is that the draft representative should be annexed to the minutes. This does not mean that the committee disagrees with the proposals that have been made, but that many of them are and will be taken care of by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3444	The Christian People's Party proposal deals with a desire to achieve greater security in cities. Although it is the big cities that have the most violence, strife and unrest, this is a problem that is of course equally important in small places as well. There are a few who are able to destroy the security of the many, and we can never accept this. Several rapes in Oslo recently have unfortunately updated the proposal further. Young girls flock to self-defense courses, and they take a number of precautions before going out in the evening. This is good, but it is a pity that they feel that this is necessary. Now as summer approaches, the outdoor life increases, and the mood rises up to more spots. Then everyone should be able to enjoy long bright evenings without being afraid to be frightened or injured in any way. Security is fundamental to a good life. Insecurity involves anxiety, sleep problems and increased morbidity in general. That is why this is an unusually important topic. I would therefore also appeal to our local governments and politicians to take this discussion locally. There is no doubt that the visible police are very important and absolutely crucial. That's where the government takes its responsibility for the deficiencies we have there. At the same time, there are many other measures that can be taken locally to help improve the safety of residents and others living in the municipality. Then it's about enlightened roads and places, well-developed collective services and enough taxis. It's about good leisure and good attitudes. Much of the violence is unfortunately related to overindulgence in alcohol. It is therefore important to have effective instruments and to use them. For the Progress Party, it has been important to provide good and predictable jobs for those who are serious in the field. At the same time, we are concerned that those who break the law are unprofessional or give birth to minors or already visibly intoxicated persons, it must be severely broken down. National guidelines and sanctions have repeatedly been called by the Progress Party by the Minister for Health, without her feeling that this is important enough. Today's system gives municipalities full freedom as to how they will carry out their controls. They can decide for themselves what is a serious crime, what can be described as a minor crime, and the responses to the crime vary greatly. Where some municipalities give a warning, another municipality will cancel the grant. A clear strict regulation, similar to that of the whole country, would give strong signals of the importance of compliance, and could result in greater respect for the law that we all think we need in relation to this industry. The STAD project from Stockholm can indicate a sharp reduction in excess and violence as well as a decrease in the number of minors. We should copy new projects that can show good results. We don't have to invent everything ourselves. The Progress Party has called for the introduction of the STAD project on several occasions. Here the Minister of Health has been somewhat lukewarm, but I choose to be optimistic this time, as the Minister of Health, after all, does not reject it. There are also positive signals when a Joint Committee requests the introduction of the STAD project in major cities over the next year. If you want results, you have to do something. After all, there is no political disagreement that everyone should feel safe, and that over-consumption and obscene use of alcohol are a problem for individuals and for society. The Progress Party will support the proposals No. 3, 4, 5 and 6 are in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3470	This is a positive matter, and it is a good initiative by the proposers. It has a russian starting point, and it has already been thoroughly debated. I also refer to the comments on the matter on the Right. When I asked for the floor, perhaps it was primarily to point out that the case also contains significant elements in the field of justice policy, in particular relating to proposals No. Three, four, five, six. In proposal No 3 takes up the importance of the police present as a preventive and security element in itself. That is the agreement of the Right Heart. In proposal No 4 takes up the measurement parameters for police work. It is a topic that has been debated several times from the Great Council for good reason, because the parameters that lie there today are linked to the police proceedings and the percentage of clarification. I guess that's good. Both of them are important, but they have some side effects that it's also important to be aware of, not least when we're talking about drug policy. As the proposers point out, those parameters will not take into account and motivate action in itself in relation to prevention. The police are doing a lot of great work. They must make difficult and important priorities every day. Unfortunately, when you know that you are then measured by time and percentage of clarification, it is not so strange that the prevention element often causes some cases to fall into line. I will also mention in this context the heavy and organized crime. There are resource-intensive issues, complex, comprehensive and time-consuming, which are also not necessarily well captured by the existing police measurement parameters. Heavy and organised crime is also important when we talk about drug policy, because very much of the illicit trafficking of drugs is being carried out in the context of organised criminal environments. So we all, including in this context, have a common interest that we, on the part of society, fight organized crime. It should also be stimulated to a greater extent in relation to the measurement parameters pursued by the police. Proposals Nos. 5 and 6 are zero-tolerance and reduced proceedings in the courts. It is also proposals Right-wing support, and we have repeatedly put forward proposals here in the Grand Duchy. So we also support these. In summary, my speech shows that the right in the vote will vote in favour of proposal No. Three, four, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3487	The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) is presenting a very important proposal for a representative dealing with several measures to increase urban security. There is, of course, a recognition that in order to achieve this, action is required in several fields, including: lighting, arrangements with good cabs, visible police, etc. All of this is needed to increase the security of cities to be a reality. We've experienced in the last few years that we've had a huge increase in gift grants and gift places. The government party is some with the Christian People's Party in that an important measure to increase security is to reduce alcohol availability. I'm recording that there's actually not all the parties that are some of the premises for this. In the previous case, we have debated proposals for a change in alcohol laws, and, to repeat, there are good arguments for reducing sprinkling times, and the government party will come back to this proposal when the SIRUS research project is completed, but the important thing is to strengthen the municipalities and people elected to their knowledge and practice of alcohol law. We have also stated in a note that the STAD project should be implemented in Norwegian cities in 2012, and we are some of them that the police should be governing their advice on salsa and hamlets. By changing the planning and building laws, the municipalities have been given the obligation to take stock of crime prevention, and we also believe that the new People's Helselova, as the government presented last Friday, will contribute to strengthening this field. When it comes to requiring municipalities to draw up plans that involve different timings for the hamlets, and to require municipalities to practice exceptions to the normal timing of alcohol lobes strictly in areas of great concern, the intention is good, but it is broken by the way we control the alcohol policy today, where the state must be clear and draw up the main lines within a maximum of knowledge time, for example, while the municipalities are responsible for designing a locally adapted alcohol policy. This responsibility must be borne by the municipalities. I see and have learned from my time in municipal policy that measures to increase security may be difficult to focus on locally, because one tends to look at anything other than the gift policy. A look at the police, at lighting, at public transport, at taxis and at leisure. But it's hard when it comes to the tipping policy. My experience is that one can't escape the spectre policy as a measure to increase the security of cities. It is a paradox, as was said in the previous debate, that while introducing a restrictive policy on smoking, one has, when it comes to alcohol, difficult for national governments to adopt something. Then one points to local democracy. In local democracy, my experience is that one sets the groups free and says that it is a matter of conscience. So each of the political parties has something to deal with to make this work better. My commitment to the alcohol policy was given to me as a new doctor, when I worked in Bergen medical care, and from the study period, when I worked in the ambulance in Bergen center. It is clear that those who came to the medical ward with damage, from an unsafe environment, did not come because there was bad lighting in a street. It is because of alcohol and alcohol that doctors need help. There's a lot of tragedy around, just because of hamster politics and alcohol and rushes in late-night hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3502	Violence, strife and insecurity characterize several of our cities on weekends and at night. Studies show that every third city citizen is afraid to go out in the evening. The Christian People’s Party wants people to move safely in the city and go home alone. As a society, we cannot accept that the majority's freedom and life-exploitation are limited by the fact that a minority makes trouble and acts threateningly. With this background, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to take more measures to restore cities as safe meeting places. A good community economy is an important prerequisite for good living conditions in cities. Good schools that include all, good leisure activities, a well-functioning child protection that captures those who need help and extra care, as well as outreach services are central to ensuring the good life and low crime. Society must focus its efforts on preventing crime, unrest and fear. Police, restrictions and sanctions can never only be a good response to the regulatory and criminal challenges facing our cities today. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate a safe and good society by focusing widely on measures and areas that promote well-being, security and good life. However, we believe that the challenges of cities need to be met by new measures. Something will come naturally under local self-government, while other conditions are determined and regulated by this hall. Fortunately, this debate shows that there is a cross-political consensus on several important measures, while on some, including the important ones, we have a great deal of disagreement. The majority has already discussed parts of this proposal as we also debated today the government's proposals for changes to the alcohol law. Here, as in the previous debate, I would like to state the following: the professionals, the people most and the Christian People's Party agree that a more restrictive alcohol policy provides safer cities. It was also agreed by the government parties two years ago. I would like to ask, since it was referred to the SIRUS report: if that report confirms what the other reports have said, namely that increasing availability and giving times lead to increased violence, will the Christian People's Party's proposal for reduced giving times be accepted with the same knowledge? The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is about more than the alcohol law. But no one should be fooled into believing that intoxication is not part of the picture when combating insecurity. Security is fundamental to a good urban community. The representative proposal has six specific proposals, one of which we would like to see. the government ensures that knowledge-based measures that affect the availability of alcohol are included in municipal plans, but also that we need to have a completely different focus on drug-free matches, cultural offers and concerts for young people over 16 years of age. In addition, we invite the entire Stortinget to ask for a more present police force, and even more importantly: we ask the government to adjust police measurement parameters so that they encourage increased prevention and security efforts. Furthermore, I would also like to mention that we want the government to take up the lengthy procedure in the courts, and that the government introduces as a general strategy in the police that there should be zero tolerance and rapid fines for less serious crimes. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3525	The representative Filip Rygg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President has registered that the Right and the Advance Party support the proposals No. Three, four, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3528	Representatives address a very important issue. Urban security is central to the government’s efforts to facilitate a safe and healthy society. A number of the proposals that are being promoted have been dealt with in the past in the Grand Duchy, for example: Inner. S. No 217 for 2006-2007, which was also concerned with measures to improve urban security. As has been said, some proposals have also been dealt with here today in connection with Prop. 48 L on changes in the alcohol law. I would like to make a few comments about the relationship between alcohol and damage. According to the World Health Organisation, alcohol is the second most important risk factor for disease and early death in high-income countries. Only tobacco comes first. In recent years, Norwegian authorities have done a great deal to limit the extent of alcohol-related harm. As I mentioned earlier today in connection with the proposal on changes in alcohol legislation, much has been done to strengthen the control of municipal sales and donations. In addition, provision has been made for municipalities to develop action plans on drugs and information tools have been developed for municipalities. Last week the government presented proposals for a new public health law. The law shall contribute to a social development that promotes public health and prevents disease, injury or suffering. The law imposes inter alia: municipalities to have an overview of their public health challenges and to put in place the necessary measures. This could be done, for example, by: are measures to limit the use of alcohol by the population. I would also like to point out that there is a growing awareness of drug policy, and we are going to continue to work to reduce the harm caused by alcohol and other drugs. But in order to succeed, it is absolutely necessary that the individual municipality is also conscious of its responsibilities. The municipality is closest to pointing to the local challenges and finding ways to limit them. The STAD project in Sweden has been mentioned by several. There I would like to point out what I said earlier today, that I have asked the Health Directorate to consider how we can gain experience from this. At the same time, I would like to stress that the STAD project's sister project in Norway, the responsible host company, was introduced in Bergen as early as 2001 and is a project that concerns the training of the staff at the outdoors. There is cooperation between the service providers, between the industry and the police, and there is also a project that can show good examples. This is also under the control of the Health Directorate, which is heavy inside here. It's been used in many cities. One of the last cities I think is Tønsberg. So it's good concepts to use in Norway too, but then the municipalities would, because what the state can contribute to is the methodology to implement this. It's educational material, it's information material in all areas, but then the municipalities would actually have to use it. There are concepts for this if you just want to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3544	Will the Council of State now respond to whether the SIRUS report that is coming may lead to the government proposing a limited maximum time for donation during this ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3550	As I said before, it was just SIRUS who said that we actually lacked knowledge of limited curtailment in Norway. Therefore, the government chose to await the SIRUS report that comes sometime, perhaps at the end of this year – that is at least what is planned. When we say that we should wait for the extensive study in 30 Norwegian cities, we believe of course, and then we have to make assessments after we have received the results of the study. It is not useful to pre-advertise what should be the final conclusion. We have just asked for this report in order to be able to build on experience and knowledge, and then we have to make the decisions after that. But there's no doubt that this is an important area for us. I have heard someone suggest that this is something we do not take seriously – we do!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3557	I have to say that I wonder a little about the answer to the council, because safe cities are about being able to go safely home. One of the proposals goes to more visible police. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice said very clearly that he was very proud of what he had said before in this room, that instead of spending one hour in the middle of the night this weekend, the police could use four to five hours in the daytime for preventive work – visible police. It would be a very important measure to implement. So the council says now that she can't suggest what she will do if the SIRUS report or other research shows that earlier termination of donation would make sense. To me, it is quite obvious that if previous cessation of giving leads to less trouble, less violence, it must be done. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3566	I'm going to go carefully through the SIRUS report, precisely because they said that here we lack knowledge. Now they're conducting a survey in 30 cities. So, of course, it's important to look at what's actually standing there. Then I wonder if the Christian People's Party believes that the state should impose all restrictions on Norwegian municipalities, and that there should be no local variation. I would think it was very fine if the municipalities had stopped giving away at noon. 23 and had also varied their seasons in connection with festivals, or had variations on everyday and weekend. It is fully possible for the municipalities to go in for this. That's the whole thing of freedom. This is when you're going to have a maximum time. But of course, we'll go through that very carefully when the SIRUS report comes, to look at what it says about this particular point, which SIRUS is now saying they have too little knowledge of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3573	Not even the Christian People's Party has arranged for all the municipalities to close at 1 p.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox So I thought it was interesting that the health minister would have been very happy if all the municipalities had a tip at night. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox I actually think it's a little early. The reason why the Christian People's Party has proposed at 5 p.m. 2, it is precisely that the former Minister of Health and Justice have repeatedly pointed out that it is a very expensive hour – a very expensive hour for society. I want to reduce the social costs, I want to reduce the assaults, I want to reduce violence in society, and I want to use resources more rationally. The Christian People's Party is for a cheap alcohol policy, and the cheapest alcohol policy is a policy that takes into account that there are people who abuse alcohol. Two years ago there was a chronicle in the VG to which the then health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen referred: ‘International research shows a link between tipping times and alcohol-related harm, not least violence. When the season of giving increases, more violence and the reverse are experienced." Is not international research and what the former Minister for Health said, good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3587	International research is of course important. At least what I meant to say at 5 p.m. 23, was that I had had nothing against it. But I'm saying it's up to the municipalities. The municipalities themselves have to choose how long they want to be open, and what they themselves think is right. This is when you are going to set the maximum time, and who is going to decide it. I have also said that in the case of SIRUS — they refer to international research — they say that there is little experience in Norway. After all, it's all about – like in Bergen, where they've restricted half an hour – what experience you have, and that you have to look at that experience base in order to form the basis for the decisions we're making. Then we'll have to decide when the maximum turnout time may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3599	Security in the centre of the big cities is a prerequisite for living and pleasant cities, and part of having pleasant cities is about drinking. It is important to have good responses to the undesirable aspects of this service. It is, as the Council of State has pointed out, the municipalities that are responsible for designing a locally adapted alcohol policy, and the responsibility the municipalities have to take. On 23 November last year, the NRK Focus showed that intoxicated people were easily served alcohol at the outdoors in Oslo, while they were sealed in Stockholm had to put off the thirst with other drinks. The day after Actis presented figures that showed that from 2008 until today the Municipality of Oslo has written 141 reports of outpatients who passed, but lost the grant as a result of this donation. Oslo police districts have also come up with criticism of the city council's search policy. The police believe that the principle of gift granting is that it is easy to lose and easy to lose, and that this does not have an impact in right-wing Oslo. The interests of the industry are at the forefront. The fight against black economy is also criticised by the police. The police say that the food store is familiar with the widespread use of bakers and strawmen, but that they have problems proving it and thus problems refusing to accept the applications. Some lawyers submit applications by mandate. They will not disclose who they represent because of the obligation of professional secrecy. Isn't there something that should change? In Oslo, several controls and penalties should be applied. The serious actors in outdoor life are not worthy of the fact that there are unprofessional actors on the ground. So what part of the industry is the City Council in Oslo serving? The project in Stockholm, STAD, has been mentioned. It has reduced violence by 30 p.m., and it has reduced overdraft and giving to minors. Those who are given gifts for a long time in Stockholm have a far tougher control and requirements than those who close earlier. It is good that lessons are now to be learned from this project. Other projects are also under way. In Fredrikstad one has successfully worked on the project Responsible Hostship. It is possible to make cities safer, but then municipalities must have an active policy to implement action plans for safer cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3618	I think that the contribution of the representative Karin Yrvin was a good illustration of why the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe that this type of discussion belongs to the City Council. There would have been an excellent contribution in Oslo City Council, just as the debate between the Minister of Health and the representative, Mr Backg, on the tipping hours in Bergen had been an excellent debate in Bergen City Council. I have participated in gift debates in a small municipality with 6,000 inhabitants and in a large municipality with over 100,000 inhabitants, and the level of the gift debates in the local government is about the same level as the gift debate has been here in Stortinget today. I will leave those kinds of discussions and decisions in safe hands to the local politicians of the country. I think they have an equally good and insightful way of discussing the kind of questions that the Storting has after today's experience. The reason I took the floor was that both in the previous debate and in this debate there has been a spread of perception that the restriction of the smoking law was made as a result of the desire to do a public health work. That's not right. As case rapporteur for the Smoking Act, I would like to remind you that the reason why Stortinget imposed a smoking ban at catering sites was because the employees of the hotel and restaurant industries were at that time the only employees in Norway who did not have a protection against smoking in their workplace. That's the reason. There was no scientific basis or research that could indicate that there was a basis for the Storting to accept that employees in this industry had a different employment protection from those in other industries. That was the reason why the majority of the population removed the exception that was for restaurants and restaurants in the case of smoking bans at the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3627	It is not intended to withdraw the debate, but after the reply with the Health Minister, I would like to make a comment. The background is that the goal of the Christian People's Party for society is quality of life. Being able to walk around safely in the evening — or generally — is one of the main goals of quality of life. Today, when we are discussing a proposal on safe cities, I am a little disappointed that some of the most important points, for which I know the government is really for – at least for – are deliberately chosen because of internal disputes. We have heard quotations earlier today, and they refer to both the one and the other, where we have different positions from the government parties. I believe that there are important points and proposals that are being discussed today, whether there are visible police or better instruments for the police to help create safe cities. Now we've been discussing the times of gift, but it's so important how to break the law. When I find out in reply with the Health Minister that international research no longer means anything, nor does it surprise me very much about the connection between opening time and giving time and consumption and abuse. I would like to say that when the representative Höie says that the gift debate should be heard in local government, it also surprises me a little. As far as I know, the right hand side is for the maximum time limit to be 2:00 p.m. 03, in any case other lots are for it, and within this maximum limit there is local freedom of action. I fully agree with the Minister of Health, and I am pleased that there are local variations. Of course, local government must be able to discuss it locally. It is up to them to decide when to set the turnout time, within a frame. The Christian People's Party is clear and clear that that framework should be set at 1 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. It was clear to the former Minister of Health, it is clear to the Minister of Justice – he just can't get through to the government. That's why I'm sorry that today's debate, where I know that there's really consensus, ends with another postponement. But I can accept the postponement if the SIRUS report and the research show that there is a context, as international research shows, which I am absolutely convinced is present, and that the government then chooses to do what it proposed, namely to reduce the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. Then the postponement is okay. But the Health Minister could not answer that either in the reply with the representative, Mr Rygg, and that disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3638	I belong to them in the Chamber who, as a local politician in the past, have participated in a large number of gift debates. They are often relatively predictable, for example. There are quite bombastic allegations that we now know are missing – let's say – a research basis. It was, among other things, TV 2 which put a timely search light on the connection between, among other things. bulwarks and violence in the cities. Now there are claims made here in the Chamber and in the debate today, both in this case and in a previous case, which give the impression that most people experience great insecurity when they travel in the city. I think that the kind of perception is first and foremost felt by people who don't travel in the city, but who may have their reality based on some TV reports, etc., in the same way as other dramatic events that often tend to have a significant impact on the news picture, may be perceived differently by those who experience it. Even I belong to those who think it is nice to be able to use the city's offer, whether it is here in this town or in my excellent hometown Bergen. There have been references to the Bergen by several in this debate. There have, of course, also been regular political debates in Bergen on the connection between giving time and unwanted behaviour or violence and other such events. What needs to be clear is that the tipping industry is probably the most well-regulated and controlled industry in Norway. So now we don't have the nuclear power industry in Norway, and we might be happy about that right now. Had we had it, that industry would probably have been more pervasive and controlled than the gift industry. But as it is now, I can't imagine any industry in Norway that is more controlled. Then it will be to shoot at the pianist if you think that the industry should be responsible for everything that happens related to some people’s problems with the use of alcohol and other drugs. You also have to be aware that a lot of the things I've seen, and that I've discussed with policemen, are about a combination of different drugs. For example, it is a problem for a young man who uses doping drugs for bodybuilding and training, in dealing with alcohol, who has major problems dealing with his aggressiveness, especially if he has other diagnoses. This type of problem cannot be taken into account by a serious tipping industry. I would like to end by saying that I think it is a little sad that gift debates also here in Stortinget, as is often the case in local government, are monopolised by health politicians, and that others cannot participate in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3655	I'm in the lucky situation that I've been previously allowed to discuss precisely the tipping-off policy with the representative of Warloe in a city council. It's been a great pleasure. It's also a great pleasure to be allowed to do it in this room. For me, it becomes quite revealing when you ask for business interests to be assessed, because this is essentially a health issue, when we know what its adverse effects are. It is also related to where in the law it is located. We know that the numbers are pretty clear. Then you can always discuss that more things are related to each other. It is also the intention behind the proposal that we are discussing today, that it is a whole. It's a whole when we're going to discuss city security, but there's also a rush, and there's also the regulation of fake times. The Christian People's Party is busy now, is that when the new knowledge comes, as the Council of State has pointed out, it must have a consequence. Now it must not be as in this debate that you will not believe it. Then it has to be that it has a consequence, so that we can create safer urban communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3664	I guess it's unpopular to take the floor so late in the debate, when everyone wants to get home – perhaps for example. to enjoy a good glass of wine or something like that at home. That is where most of the alcohol consumption takes place, as other debaters have also been involved in this debate. I think it's important to remember that, and I think it's important to remember that for most people it's important to be able to take advantage of a town's outdoors – perhaps to enjoy a glass at home or in other contexts, in other arenas – about something that's nice, it's about something that's social. I don't know how many and ninety percent of Norway's population handle this completely satisfactorily, even representatives of the Christian People's Party. So there are a few people who can't do this, and they have a problem. Of course, this problem must be addressed. But I'm very skeptical that Filip Rugg and others from the Christian People's Party – that was Kjell Ingolf Ropstad – refer to the quality of life and the good life. If you're going to politically define what's the good life, I think I want a different view of it than representatives of the Christian People's Party. If the alcohol policy of the Christian People's Party were to be implemented in Norway, I would personally choose another country to live in. It must be so strong that it can be said. This means that when you define that kind of concept — people's good lives and quality of life — you have to be very careful, because you have to respect that people are different. In the right, at least we're concerned that people are different and themselves must be able to define what is quality of life and a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3635]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3689	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed to give rise to a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3698	We are dealing here with several proposals from the Christian People's Party related to the operation of our specialist health service, and the most comprehensive proposal is to shut down regional health companies. The hospital reform with the establishment of regional health enterprises and non-government health enterprises has been in operation for just under 10 years. There have been many positive experiences during the period and the model has been developing. Regional health companies have carried out many necessary task and function distributions between our hospitals. This has been necessary in the light of major medical and technical developments during the period. There has been a significant increase in patient treatment over the period and a gradual improvement in financial management towards balance across all four health regions in 2010. The level of investment in hospitals has doubled since the county councils owned the hospitals, and several major hospital projects have been adopted during the period. This provides a basis for management, trustees and employees to have their main focus on quality, short waiting times, patient safety and interaction with primary health services, Nav and others. In all Western countries, there is a debate on the organisation and management of specialist health services. With us, one of the issues in the debate is whether we should have a regional level of our own governance, as the Health Business Act provides. Basically, this is a debate on democratic governance of the sector. Our governance model has been developing over the period, including: by opening the meetings of the Governing Boards to the public and by appointing the majority of the members of the Governing Boards, on a proposal from the local government and the county council. Proposalers from the Christian People's Party believe that regional health businesses should be closed down and that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should take over some of the tasks of regional enterprises today. Proposalers do not consider it appropriate to set up a new Directorate. This assessment is endorsed by an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, and the same majority of the opinion is that today’s Health Directorate is also not a natural alternative for direct management of health businesses. With regard to the substance of the proposal, government parties will refer to the government’s platform that the basic principles of the health business model should be continued, but that an investigation work will be started during this enlargement period with a view to further improvements in the model. The health business model has proved to be robust, has delivered good results in many areas, and the model is designed for political governance. I do not see that the proposers present an alternative model that allows for the corresponding safe management of the specialist healthcare service. Our model of health enterprises regionally and locally provides all opportunities for wise political governance with the sector. We have made this governance clear, including: by carrying out more frequent business meetings, making clear targets for policy priorities in the mission documents, notified an evaluation of regional health enterprises and that changes in the number of enterprises and areas of inclusion can only be made at business meetings. Clear political orders have been made this year in the mission documents related to, for example: improved quality of treatment, shorter waiting times, reduction of involuntary part-time, more apprenticeships and more predictability for non-profit actors. In addition, we will work on measures to strengthen cooperation between local authorities and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3719	Let us all agree that Norway is facing important priorities to ensure that healthcare is provided to those who need it the most and that an equivalent offer is developed across the country. Let us also agree that regional health businesses lack the necessary legitimacy to take important action to ensure appropriate operation and increased resource control. The Progress Party considers that there is a basis for removing the costly and bureaucratic intermediary that regional health businesses have become, or what the representative Health refers to as a safe governance model. Proposalers believe that today’s structure also seems inadequate to meet the need for optimum use of overall health resources, and that this points towards the need for both decentralisation and stronger national coordination — two thoughts at the same time. Then we're at the heart of the matter. Because the train is actually leaving now. It's going today. It's not possible, as the Center Party is trying to give the impression, to reverse this. Competence environments are going to be split up and moved. Uncertainty created. The train is soon gone, so it's not coming back. I do not agree with the Council of State and the Government. I believe that the government is making the offer worse when they are actually making good deals in the districts. Centralisation of some important tasks, all of which are agreed, is not, in our opinion, a good reason for shutting down local hospitals, and that at an historic pace. The Progress Party believes that it is a deliberate choice of this government and follows as a direct consequence that one is not willing to define what a local hospital should contain of services. The really big paradox is that there's actually a majority in this room to define just this. In this case, too, it is the Central Party that contributes to the fact that the Storting does not take the decisions for which it is a majority, and in which the Central Party does indeed agree. But one thing the council should have, and that's that she means this. She's in charge of politics. Although obvious, it is unpopular and you lose votes in parts of the country – and it is probably not easy – it actually deserves respect. The centre party, on the other hand, contributes to a policy in which they say they disagree, while trying to give the impression that they agree with us. They stand on TV and claim that they disagree, they claim that the train has not passed and that they will fight. This is wrong. This leads people behind the light and does not contribute to credibility. The truth is that the train is leaving now, and it is possible thanks to the Center Party. It's the Center Party that says they want to remove the regional health companies, it's the Center Party that says they want to define what a local hospital should contain, and it's the Center Party that says they want to keep a local hospital. All of these things we can actually adopt in this room, and we're taking the Center Party seriously, but they're actually making sure that the opposite happens by what they claim. Today they show the world that it's just talk and nothing else. In the case of local hospitals, I feel quite convinced – unfortunately – that the Centre Party will be remembered as the party that to save the most removed in the shortest possible time. In fact, today the size could freeze all conversion processes in the local hospitals. In this way, it would at least temporarily be ensured that existing offers on Eid, Lærdal and several places existed. So the red-green parts, and especially the centre part, have the possibility today. And it's not just the Center Party, we see local representatives from the Workers' Party who are also out in today's newspapers and give the impression that they will stop the closure, or at least the removal, of businesses in the local hospital at Kongsberg – even deposit representatives in this room. But it's today the train is leaving. This is the case today. Freeze the conversion processes today, or forever shut your mouth! With this, I would like to promote the proposals referred to in the vote and also just explain that we do not support proposal No. 5, from the left, as we consider it covered by our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3749	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3752	I think today's debate will only have historical interest, and in that case it will be to go back to this setting and already there see the outline of what will be the future management system for Norwegian health care. Because it's quite obvious that as long as there's only one party in this room, the Workers' Party, who still supports today's governance model, there's not a question of whether there's going to be a change, but of when there's a change. It is likely that it will be relatively rapid after the 2013 enlargement. So the governance model that we have today has no connection from any party other than the Workers' Party. In this setting, an alternative control model is outlined. The alternative management model is based on two essential elements. The first element is that the Stortinget treats a national hospital plan as part of the national health and care plan. We have now, last Friday, received the government's response to this request, and it is again a national health and care plan that does not specifically describe how the specialist health service in Norway is going to develop in concrete terms, and in particular it is not a national hospital plan. It's an attempt to define what's a local hospital. The list is added so that it is precisely possible to define the hospitals as they will be after the changes that are now taking place within that list. Therefore, the Soria Moria statement could be said to be maintained. However, there is no attempt to define what other types of hospitals should contain. No, the national health plan states that it is to be laid down. By attaching it to regulations, it is kept at a safe arm's length distance from this hall, and thus you can still have the kind of discussions behind closed doors inside the government, even though the doors are gradually opened at the gap of individual members of the government. The alternative model is to define the important issues in a national health plan, in a national hospital plan, so that it is anchored here in the Stortinget. There is no need for regional health businesses. The four regional health enterprises, which currently operate up to four different types of health policy in this country, will then be redundant. They will be a bureaucratic intermediary between a national health plan anchored in the Stortinget and robust, decisive governance at local hospitals. There is also the background to the right-wing support for the proposal for a point (1) to establish a national health and care plan and point (2) to the closure of regional health establishments. In this debate, there are some, especially the representative Top of the Center Party, who are trying to create the impression that the Right was driving the governance model that we have today. That is not correct, so I would recommend that the representative Toppe and the others who live in that error go back and read the motion for a resolution on the reform of responsibility. There you will see that the Right presented a completely different proposal, which meant that a separate operational management of hospitals was based on what was then called the management system, precisely because it was thought that there was a need for management, i.e. a political governance, of the important issues related to how the hospital structures and specialist health services should look in Norway, when it was thought that it was wrong to organise it in a company model according to the share law model. However, it was a model promoted by the Workers' Party, for which they were given a majority with the Advance Party, and for which the Right supported subsidiaryly because we felt it was important to contribute to a state responsibility for the Special Health Service. What this is about is issues that the public see as vital, to be taken by elected politicians or faceless bureaucrats. From the Right, this question belongs to a democratically elected body, because it is precisely this type of question that the voters place great emphasis on when they go to elections and choose their representatives. Today, there's a black player game that reminds us of the black player game that also took place when the county councils were responsible for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3769	The proposals under consideration here today are all fully part of the national health plan now under consideration in the Health Committee, so it would have been natural for this debate to take place in the context of the examination of the national health plan. I will only touch on one of the proposals that have been debated, namely the proposal that the Storting should ask the government to put down regional health businesses. Such a decision will significantly centralise the organisation of specialist health services in this country. The principle of regionalisation, as specialised health services are structured, means that a population perspective is laid on the planning and organisation of healthcare. It is based on the interlevel organisation of healthcare in health regions. A division of labour in the regions is being built to meet as much as possible the needs of the population for specialist health services. An internal cooperation infrastructure is also built in the health region. This applies in areas such as ICT, health transport, ambulances, purchasing systems and not least professional networks. And it's gradually built up a significant regional planning and leadership competence. In Norway 95 pst is covered. of the needs of the population for specialist health services in health regions. It is sometimes claimed that Norway, with its 4.5 million inhabitants, is no larger than one city in London and therefore does not need more than two levels, and perhaps someone thinks only one. The point is that Norway is not London. Norway is a geographically long-distance country, larger than Italy, with large geographical differences in population base, distance differences, climate differences, etc. Since there is a reason to wonder how to believe that the development of healthcare to the population of a country with so many differences, with hospital structure and local health problems, should be better addressed in a centralised organisation, in a centralised hospital administration, than in today's organisation? It will mean greater distance between those who control, and those who are controlled. A state hospital administration, or hospital directorate, which is also proposed, will not be able to have the same proximity to the establishments to manage as a regional administration with a regional organisation. There is a critical debate on the Health Business Act and the law in general, a critical debate on the legitimacy of health businesses, a debate on the importance of policy decisions in the area of regional policy. Are they to be taken into corporate governance or into Stortinget? It is an important debate. I am very pleased that the government parties have decided that an evaluation will take place after 10 years under the Health Business Act. Then these questions will come up. However, there is reason to stress that it is not necessary to lower the regional level in order to establish one with clearer and stronger political governance. There's no assumption at all. I would then like to show that our neighbouring country in the Nordic region has a regional organisation, they build their specialist health service on the regionalisation principle. That is the normal thing in the rest of Europe as well. There are three levels, and if we were to eliminate the regional dimension, the regional organisation, we would appear to be different countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3786	The Christian People's Party calls on the government to put forward proposals to shut down regional health businesses, to draw up a national hospital plan as part of the national health and care plan and to freeze ongoing conversion processes in local hospitals until a national hospital plan is drawn up. The centre party was, like the Christian People's Party, opposed to the constitution of hospitals, and was and is opposed to the corporate model. In the Soria Moria statement, we had a commitment that the corporate model should be passed on during this majority period. At the Central Party's national meeting, the party brings down a selection to be chaired by Marit Arnstad, which will look at changes in the management of the specialist services. We will probably not only look at governance and concrete alternatives to the business model, but also at the funding and market thinking that are dominant in the specialist services of today. To the proposal to freeze ongoing conversion processes in local hospitals, there is no secret that this is something the Centre Party has been working for. The proposal is less topical now, as the national health and care plan is already being promoted by the government. To the proposal to draw up a national hospital plan, the national meeting of the Central Party has been agreed in an opinion. I think that in the long term this is something that will be able to work. The mission of the Centre has been to ensure that the national health and care plan is developed into a more operational roadmap for priorities within the overall health services. In order to secure a real priority debate, it is clear in Soria Moria that county municipalities should be involved in a hearing. This may be a bit of the same intention behind a national hospital plan. I am sure that the debate on the management of both the specialist services, the national hospital plan and the local hospital conversion processes is something that the Stortinget will come back to when examining the national health and care plan. This is how the train is not leaving today. Bent Höie's right that Right wasn't a driver for the corporate model, as the Progress Party was. But the Right was, after all, involved taking hospital management away from elected bodies – from the county to a state model. Finally, in my post, I would like to thank you for all the criticisms that have been expressed against me and the Center Party. It's partly justifiable. The worst thing about this is not, however, the criticism from other parties in this room. The worst criticism in this matter we get from our voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3805	Local hospitals are an important part of Norwegian healthcare. They are a security base that has its advantages in proximity, breadth of competence and local knowledge. Today’s debate is important for local hospital users, local community residents and employees. No less sad is that in this case, as in some other cases, we are now given decisions that do not agree with the expressed views of the majority in this Chamber. The Christian People's Party believes that local hospitals need to be developed in line with new medical knowledge, based on geographical conditions, new infrastructure and technological solutions. As early as 2007, Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad received a report on his desk, the report on the emergency functions of local hospitals in an overall treatment chain. This gave clear advice on shifting resources from specialised hospitals to local hospitals. The report also proposed definitions of local hospitals, as suggested by several in this room, with emergency facilities and local hospitals with adapted emergency functions, such as: local hospitals in the Mosjön and Nordfjordeid. It was recommended in the report that this should be further investigated. It is amazing to note that the government has not carried out such an investigation. We have received a health and care plan that describes on very few pages what we believe should have been described and investigated in a larger and comprehensive hospital plan. This is about security and good communities, about district policy, and that we should be able to rely on the opinions of the elected people. Transport, professional quality, user satisfaction, recruitment and education are included. We do not get the broad debate that we should have had. It regrets the Christian People's Party. Therefore, we will freeze the conversion process in the local hospitals immediately. We want a unified definition of what a local hospital should contain. We also want, as I said earlier, a national hospital plan. I refer to the suggestions that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3816	The representative Filip Rygg has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3819	When I heard the representative Are Health hold the opening to the matter as case rapporteur, I was actually a little fascinated that it was possible to make an article about something that engages so many people, and that so many are so busy, without at all talking about what people are concerned about. I agree that there has been a lot of good in the governance structures regarding the economy in Norwegian hospitals. We've got a lot of it under control. There's a lot that happens that's also good. There are also things that happen that are not good. I, as the representative of Oslo and Akershus, am extremely concerned about what is now happening with new distribution fractions in the field of drugs and psychiatry. I think it's going to be very bad. We're going to fight it like Oslo citizens. But what we're talking about here today is that it's beginning to be distrusted of our governance structure itself. The left will not support shutting down regional health businesses and will not vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox But I think it is important that we now set in motion a process in which we make political authorities, who make elections, for the decisions that have been made. Because it doesn't just help to choose politicians and put them into AS controllers. The point of politicians is that they can be thrown into elections. The point of democracy is not just to pick someone, it's also that you can throw someone. And the problem with the entire governance structure of Norwegian hospitals today is that we have – in and of course – many politicians who are in charge, but no one can be thrown when they do a bad job. Those mechanisms must be restored to the governance of such a large part of our welfare state. Therefore, the Left believes that instead of calling it a national plan, there should be a regular roll-out in the Stortinget with a big message about developments in the hospital sector. There must be an earth of the great important things that people feel are deciding their everyday lives, in a politically elected forum, namely in the Stortinget. In this way, the Minister of Health would have authority from here and not by the way – of formulations and comments – but directly, on the basis of discussing and discussing the whole of the hospital service, and then giving a mandate to the kind of closures that we see today that people are being very frustrated and expressed. This is about a common, good democratic way of thinking that means that people's frustration is getting bigger when you feel that there's someone you should take. This is not just of compassion for the Minister of Health, who is the target of all this when she travels around the country, but I believe that we are the forum that should have this responsibility, and the responsibility should lie in this Chamber. That is why we are promoting our own proposal, which I really think is an alternative to proposal No. 2, which is in the case. Then we have in the Left – after a lot of time and again in the Left Group, it is also possible if you are two – that today we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The reason is that we see that the frustration that is out there among people today must be taken seriously and must be channelled into a debate about whether or not this is the right decision. I think it undermines both the position of politicians and the honesty of politics, which I think is important, when you say you don't put anything down, but you really put it down. It becomes like when you feel that Baghdad is standing, sail if you see the bombs falling, as I referred to the Minister of Health yesterday. I think you need to be honest with me about things. If that's how you really want to downgrade offers, and that leads to the changes that people feel it leads to, then you have to be honest with it and not "back it in" like other things. I want decisions to be taken in this Chamber, decisions that involve major changes for people's everyday lives. Those decisions shall not be evaded by undertakings which are far from popular governance. I want power back in this room, I want responsibility back to the politicians, I want politicians who see the citizens in their eyes and say that this must be because we see the whole thing. And then I think we shouldn't take responsibility for others. That is why the Left will vote in favour of its proposal, which I am promoting, and for proposal No. Four in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3838	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3841	In fact, the case-rapporteur, Health, presented very well to the government's health policy. From the other parts of the hall, I've heard different posts from the opposition parties that go in quite different directions, even if you express disagreement with the current model. At least I have not seen any overall alternative to that control. Like the proposers, I am also very concerned that we should ensure equivalent healthcare throughout this country, and that those who need it most should be given priority first. The proposal for a national health and care plan and the municipal health and care services law, presented last Friday, follow up on the Storting treatment of the Interaction Reform. The goal is – as most people know – to prevent more, treat earlier, and thus limit disease. We need to reduce social health inequalities, and we need to ensure that everyone is provided with an equivalent range of health and care services, regardless of the individual's background or economy. The population shall experience that they are offered treatment and care with a short waiting period and with the greatest possible proximity to the user. Here we're actually at a core point, because when I hit patients, they're busy with one thing -- getting healthy. They are busy getting high-quality treatment, getting it fast and getting the waiting time down. There has been criticism of the business model. Much of the criticism is that there is too little political governance – we have also heard here – by the specialist health service. It is almost ten years since the adoption of the Health Enterprise Act and during these years there has been a major shift in specialist health services. By looking at hospitals in the various enterprises, regions and countries in the context, we have improved the division of work between hospitals. An increasing number of patients are being treated, and government governance has contributed to greater geographical similarity in treatment provision. More is being researched, and increased specialisation and competence have contributed to improved patient care. As the rapporteur said, the level of investment has more than doubled since the county owned the hospitals. In recent years, good control of the economy has been achieved, with balance sheet results of all four health establishments for 2010. This allows us to build new hospitals and invest in new equipment. So after several years of timely focus on financial management, attention is now focused on reducing waiting times, improving quality and developing services. And that's actually what the country's patients are very concerned about. The results suggest that the health business model should be continued. But there's also room for change. This is why we are launching an evaluation and an investigation to make improvements in the model and in the Health Business Act. The size is invited to make national priorities through the treatment of the national health and care plan. The size shall also be more closely involved in the long-term management of the specialist health service through annual orientation on development and status. Clear governance signals shall be communicated through the State budget, the annual mission documents and the business meetings. Measures to strengthen anchoring and cooperation with local authorities and elected people, both locally and regionally, shall also be implemented. At the business meetings in January, I demanded that regional health businesses strengthen efforts to improve the quality of treatment and reduce waiting times. I stressed that the acquisition of healthcare by health businesses must take into account the need for predictability and long-termity of non-profit institutions and that acquisitions should ensure satisfactory geographical availability of services for the population. However, the importance of private actors does not depend on the responsibility of regional health companies to ensure the equivalent level of specialist health services for the population. Here the local hospitals are important. Regardless of the governance model, the actual health care needs to be in constant transition. Changes must be made based on the needs of patients and as a result of medical-technological developments. The current changes take place in line with previous policy developments and decisions. National health and care plan is a plan for the development of future healthcare. In this plan, we draw up the general policy for the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3859	In the Questionnaire the other day, I asked questions as to whether it was difficult to have a centre party that they later took this one without doing it. Today we can see that the Buskerud Labour Party also disagrees with the Minister. I guess it's not any easier. What I want to drill, because I did not get an answer when I asked about this yesterday, is the definition of a local hospital. We know there's a majority in this room that wants the Storting to define what a local hospital should contain. We also know that the people want this. The only party that doesn't want it is actually the Workers' Party. Now, on Eid, for the future, you get a femoral fracture, you have to be carried past what the Workers' Party calls a local hospital, and maybe to Førde. Why can't you define in this room what a local hospital should contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3866	We define local hospitals in the national health and care plan. But in fact, in all those local hospitals — and there are many of them in Norway, some are small and some are larger — there are very different functions. Therefore, it is very difficult to say that this is a template that should be at all local hospitals. In the government statement, we are very clear that we need to maintain the structure we have in local hospitals. We believe that this is important; we also believe that it is important to ensure that the large patient groups that we believe have not received adequate treatment today. Then we say that it should be close to acute and food. But then we say at the same time what I heard in a post from the Christian People's Party, they said it was important that we take into account new infrastructure and new technological solutions. But that is not what is being done in this proposal. The Labour Party has just adopted its hospital policy. That's what's going on. It is also the case in the national health and care plan. We're going to do an evaluation, and then come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3873	I expect that it is inspiring for the Central Party and SV to hear from the Council of State that it is the National Assembly of the Workers Party that defines the government's hospital policy, and not the other two parties. But that's what they get to take over, those who are affected. My question is why the Council of State is not willing to describe the content of other types of hospitals than local hospitals in the National Health and Welfare Plan, and why the government proposes that the content of other types of hospitals, such as regional hospitals, university hospitals, district medical centres, etc., be defined in a regulation. Why couldn't it be defined by a national hospital plan here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3880	It is that even the major hospitals are not the same. I can mention one example that I know well, Haukeland Hospital in Bergen, such as. has a very special fire damage department. If you get a serious fire damage, you are sent wherever you are in the country. It is also a local hospital for a large population, while smaller hospitals with other functions are local hospitals, so this is different. You can make a list of the functions that are in any hospital, you can say that you should not make any changes. If you do not make changes and only deliver a static document that should be the status quo, you will also not be able to address the new treatments that suddenly become necessary, for example: in the case of ablation or other types of treatment, which is absolutely essential for the patient to receive the best treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3885	The reason why the Christian People's Party wants a national hospital plan is to ensure security, predictability and broad political debates, and therefore also anchoring. We have seen in the media that there may also be changes in the content of health businesses, including the in the west, with Health Fonna, where adjustments may be made. The Council of State has also said that she will watch. This could naturally be included under a national hospital plan. On Friday, a short time ago, the representative Kjersti Toppe also stated that there could be hope for a national hospital plan. My question to the Council of State is: Is there any hope of a national hospital plan, or will the government not present it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3892	I said in my post what we would do. We will provide the Stortinget with a document giving a briefing on the specialist health service every year. I think that's important for just being able to tell the Biggest about the big changes that are happening. So I would say that the example of Health Fonna is very special. Is it really the case that the size measure aims to set the limit on where a health business should be? What's the matter here is that Odda Municipality and the hospital there want to get under Health Bergen. I have said that there is something you need to look at and assess. It won't give the population of Odda or Health Fonna any worse health care. That's definitely not the point. In fact, it is just to take into account that there will be a new infrastructure, a hardware bridge, which will make the distance from Voss and Bergen shorter – at least to Voss – than for example. to Haugesund. That's what we have to set up – start from infrastructure as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3899	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3904	Storting representative Erling Sande of the Centerpartiet has addressed to Firda Tidend: ‘This is the largest loss the Centre Party has suffered in the government. I am very disappointed that Sp as a lot is involved in adopting such a thing.» Then the same Erling Sande has also said that it remains to be seen whether there is a willingness in the opposition to make concrete proposals to the Stortinge which, in turn, can help to reverse the decision. Today, a decision has been taken to help one stop this until further notice. The representative Bent Höie says that this case only has historical value. I don't agree with that. It is important that citizens living in the areas covered by the decisions taken by individual healthcare professionals are confident that nothing will disappear in time for the Stortinge to deal with the health plan. The actual situation is that those who get strokes and heart attacks, when the hospital in Eid is laid down, and it is actually by the decision in Health Førde, may risk that they may need to spend four hours at the hospital in Førde for treatment. Everyone understands that when you have had a stroke or a heart attack and come to a hospital after four hours, the chances are very small. I note that the representative Lundtigen of the Senterpartiet says that he is the culprit of the population. I hope then that Lundtegen, and perhaps others in the Center Party, have the same opinion of his role here in the Stortinget, and that they have a place for all hospitals throughout the country, and that Lundtegen does not only have a place for the hospital in Kongsberg. What's happening now is that maybe the best orthopaedic department in the country is being laid down in North fjord, and what's at least said to me by the Legs of North fjord, is that they're not going to move to Förde. They're moving other places. So one will stand without the special field that they have, cuckoo operations, it might disappear out of the country. If there is good hospital policy on the part of the government, I don't understand. I would also say that the health care situation is such that they have incurred enormous administrative expenses. It can be a few away if one goes down and changes the health model.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3923	Today we are discussing one of the perhaps most important areas for people, namely health security, and we are discussing how we want hospitals to be organised. The interesting thing about hospital management is that if you ask almost anyone of politicians, whether they're in municipal government, county councils or in this room, they experience frustration. They are experiencing a situation in which they no longer have their hands on the steering wheel with regard to the most important sector, and it is a great paradox for me. That is why perhaps one of the most important proposals currently under discussion is the Christian People's Party's proposal to shut down regional health businesses. There are things that have been good with regional health companies as well, it's not like everything is black and white. But billions more have also been invested, which have been taken, and which I am sure the states could also have made good decisions if they had received the same funds. The Christian People's Party was against it when regional health companies were introduced, and we've been against it all along. The background for us wanting to remove it now is that we have seen that it has been difficult to get clear political governance. I have to say that it is interesting to see representatives after representatives of the government parties go hard in the media against decisions taken in closed rooms by the directors of the regional health companies. And then we're sitting here in this room and we can't even vote over the big political decisions taken in closed rooms. It is incredibly important to get back political control of hospitals, to put down regional health businesses and to get a national government where a health minister is actually willing to go in and take clear political action, while at the same time having a decentralisation because one gives back more power locally, where there are politicians who are involved in making decisions. This is a serious matter because the most important sector is not under political control, but it is also a serious matter because it is about democracy. When decisions are taken that may be tough, whether it is to move to specialist units or to lay down hospitals, they may sometimes be correct. But then those who choose to take those decisions must also be responsible for the decisions. I could say that the government parties must be in favour of what is the government's policy, but also those who are in the government, who are taking great action, should have been held accountable. That is precisely why it is also important that politicians sit there, who are responsible for the decisions taken, not faceless bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3940	The second most provocative thing about this debate is that when we hear representatives from the government party talking, they talk about the local hospitals as if they were providing the most specialised services. No one in this room disagrees that it is necessary to specialise in large parts of the course of treatment. The discussion related to acute and food supply in local hospitals is quite different. Therefore, I hope that the government party will actually end up arguing against the local hospitals with a argument that it is going in the direction of more specialised treatment – there is no discussion about it. But there's a discussion about having a good emergency and food supply where people live. Then it is disappointing to read newspaper headlines after newspaper headlines: On 13 December, the representative Kjersti Toppe says that we need to get a minimum standard for what a local hospital should hold, contrary to what the council says here today. It is equally disappointing to read that representative Kjersti Toppe says on Thursday 17 March: ‘This is our Lofoten.’ What threatens SV if they didn’t get through in Lofoten? Well, easy to get out of government. The centre part does not deliver. The representatives Kjersti Toppe and Geir-Ketil Hansen will also be on TV 2 on 28 March and say that they promise to fight for local hospitals. Where are they today? They also say on April 14 that they do not accept a hospital code. And then Per Olaf Lundtigen ends up calling the discussion, which is also related to the local hospital, for double morals and spreading disinformation. But where is Per Olaf Lundtigen no today when the debate goes? When the battle of local hospitals is over, he chooses not to be present in the hall. I also noticed that the spokesperson from Nordfjordeid chose to leave the hall before we start voting. I shall conclude by quoting what Per Olaf Lundteg says about Jens Stoltenberg: ‘But when his position meets the people’s will, he will learn that his cold, economic reasoning is not consistent with what people feel as security.’ It's like I should have said it myself, because that's what this is about. It is a matter of the Center Party being able to claim that they fight the fight of districts, but there is no one in the future, unless absolutely necessary emergency and food supplies are in the vicinity. The centre party has lost the battle – they are honest about it – but they should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3954	Only a few words to the last post of the Progress Party that is so critical of the health business model. After all, when it was introduced ten years ago, it was the Progress Party that was the driving party to organise the hospitals in health companies. I have not seen that they have gone against terminating this model either, but they do not want the regional level. And that's the way it is, to Dale, that Per Arne Olsen's representative has said publicly that one should define at least how a local hospital should be organised. Then – as has been said – it also means that some local hospitals need to be closed down. There is still some explanation from the Advance Party about what they really think about hospital structure. But what I'm taking the floor for is to say that I perceive this debate as very leaping, and that is about several things. At the heart of the proposal under discussion is not local hospital organisation or the distance between local hospitals in the West. What we are discussing is the proposal to abolish the regional level of specialist health services – to lower the regional level and to establish only two levels – that is what is really the proposal here. I encourage the opposition parties to reflect more closely on this, because there is no link between what has been called for by others, and by which SV is also a member, namely to add the important political decisions on the structure of the health system to a national health plan and to the Storting, to the elected people. There the corporate model, as it appears today, has a great weakness. But there is no correlation between that and the proposal to wind up the regional level. For the regional level we have in this country, there is a great strength for the specialist health service and for developing a specialist health service in a country that is so long-term, with such great geographical differences. The fact that regional competence to develop the healthcare system, to develop hospitals, ambulance services and health transport in different parts of the country is not served by a central government agency in Oslo. That is what the proposal is on the table and on which the opposition parties in common agree. I'll warn you about it, because it'll have long-term, unfortunate consequences for the development of the specialist health service if we wind up the regional level. It will contribute to a long-term centralisation – I am not at all in doubt about that. There is no other country, either in Scandinavia or in Europe, that has not organised its health services at a regional and local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3963	We live in a country that has a good welfare society, and that is identified as one of the world's best countries to live in because we have a high quality of all our services. However, these welfare services are constantly changing in the context of improved skills, faster and faster medical and technical progress, and there is a growing need to change treatment provision and treatment structures. It's best for us as users all of this is about – how we organize our health care system. I was a state politician for 12 years in the South Trondelag, and that was the time when the county council was responsible for the hospitals. At that time, local hospital administrators were composed of professionals together with state politicians, etc. When they did not get the hospital budgets to go up, they sent responsibility to the county councils and county councils. There were major demonstrations about the lack of resources, lack of control, etc. What, then, did the state politicians do? Well, they're heading south towards Oslo, towards big business and government, and they're asking for more resources. It was nothing about political governance and how we handle our healthcare system. Over the almost ten years following the launch of the business model, appropriations for the development of Norwegian hospitals, for psychiatry, for the drug field and a number of areas have increased dramatically. We've got new constructions, new equipment and more employees, which means that the quality of health services is far better now than they were ten years ago. In order to do this further, we will then organise this by cutting regional health businesses, relocating competences from the regions, from local areas, e.g. moving. local user representatives, move local employees who are members of the boards who are really competent in their own hospital, their own area, and who are involved in the processes for developing the healthcare provision in a good way? I have no faith in that. Regional governments are very important for how we're going to deal with this in the future. Putting this in Oslo means that we have even less influence on how this is done. Governments and governments have said: we have governance documents, we have business meetings, and we want to have a general debate in Stortinget, where hospital structure and hospital services are discussed. That is a good way to deal with this debate in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3976	I want to thank you again for the criticism. That was a very good criticism of Jon Georg Dale. But once again, I want to say that we are not responsible for criticism from other parties. We are not responsible for the other party in this room. We are responsible for our voters. In particular, we are not responsible for the Progress Party, which was a driver of the enterprise model and the market path that could mean that local hospitals cannot develop as they should otherwise. They've been a driver of that model, and not until this was almost settled, they became the biggest critics. The battle does not stand today either. Of course, the impact is when the Stortinget is going to deal with the national health and care plan before the summer. To those who wonder about each Erling Sande is today: he's in paper commission, and Per Olaf Lundtägen is in Switzerland. When it comes to the supply of food, everyone must bear in mind that the Stortinget itself decided that quality requirements should be developed. There wasn't one party at the time that said this was going back to Stortinget, to this hall. In fact, some people could decide whether or not food departments should be closed down or maintained. Now, after all, there's already been a government case and a decision there. Nor have I seen that a single party in the wake of what happened at Nordfjordeid has said that they want to reverse the decision, that they want to introduce the maternity ward. The complaint and the criticism are that they did not get permission to participate in the decision themselves. It was supposed to be in this room. Then it is also true that it is only the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party that today are voting for this to be postponed until the National Hospital Plan arrives. When it comes to the representative Robstad, it's very interesting what he's talking about in terms of political governance. And I'm going to boast about the government: after all, we've got more political governance within the channels that are, that's a mission document. Such active decisions have rarely been made. My point in this with political governance is that one can say that it is political governance, but what is missing today is political anchoring in the communities and among the populace. What we need to look at is how the enterprise model or a change in it can create greater political anchoring of political decisions and changes in both acute and food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e3993	It was Mr. Geir-Ketil Hansen's posts that made me ask for the word, because I was a little confused. The representative Hansen said that SV was also to get a national health and hospital plan processed in Stortinget. I was well aware of that, and that was what was also the starting point when I said in my post that it was only the Workers' Party that was not for such a solution. What surprises me is his whole-hearted defense of the directors of the regional health companies. If it is that SV actually believes that the Storting should treat and adopt a national hospital plan that is operational and that provides guidance on how the hospital structure should look in Norway, then of course there are no questions as to the types of treatment to be used in hospitals, as the Minister of Health was concerned with, what type of heart surgery, etc. It doesn't belong in Stortinget. There must be minimum requirements for what the various hospitals should be able to offer, so that a resident knows that if one comes to a local hospital, it is a minimum that one has that kind of offer in that hospital. Then I expect that the representative Hansen also believes that the directors and managers who are in the hospitals, i.e. in the local health care companies, are those who are most suitable to lead hospitals, not least because they are close to where both patients and employees are. But what I'm left with as the big question about SV's model is: What tasks are left for the well-paid directors of regional health companies? Very familiar they haven't treated a single patient, and at least they're not close to the employees. It is the story that you face all the time when you are in contact with those who work in healthcare, that today's governance model represents an attempt at remote management of difficult businesses. The local health enterprises that one has in Norway today — about 20 in the number — all represent large enterprises with a large number of employees, a very professional management and a good competent board of directors. They do not need directors of regional health establishments to sit and interpret national signals from the Council of State or from the Storting; they are excellently able to do so even if those signals are clear enough and anchored in a national health plan addressed here in the Chamber. What I'm simply asking is: what is SV's task for the directors of regional health companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4006	After hearing the contribution of the representative, Asphjell, you might want to sum up the debate so that while the Labour Party would like to have hospital directors out there, the Progress Party prefers hospital workers. And that's what this whole thing is all about. When the argument becomes as varied as it gets from the different government parties today, it is strange. The working party insists that it is the quality measure that causes a local hospital to shut down, while the representative Toppe, as I understand it, has a difficult day, claims that it is the market economy that is behind the disappearance of local hospitals. It is true that if the market economy led to the disappearance of local hospitals, only the Central Party could vote for the Progress Party's alternative state budget, where one strengthens regional health services, so that they at least had the economy to maintain local hospitals, if that was the problem. So challenge Kjersti Top Advancement if we could reverse these decisions. We should have done that. The problem is that when the Center Party today votes against proposals to help you maintain your functions today, the competence environment disappears. When the Competence Environment of Nordfjordeid is gone because of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, it is not possible to reverse it. That's what makes the train go today, and that's what I wanted the centre party to actually take over. So it's quite right that the representative Toppe sums up briefly with: in the local hospital fight, there are only two parties that you can trust. It's the Christian People's Party, and it's the Progress Party. It's a shame not to follow the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4015	Geir-Ketil Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4018	Bent Höie asked questions about what regional directors should do, what was left of tasks when we moved politics into the Stortingen and into the National Health Plan. It is clear that regional organisation, regional planning competence and regional management of the specialist health service are of great importance. The reason why we should have it is that the country is so different, it is so contrasting and there are so many challenges we have, in relation to districts, not least. In comparison, reference can be made to the transport sector which has a regional organisation, not least in the road sector, with regional road managers with planning skills, because it has a high quality and a high value to have organised activities at regional sub-regional level. This is also the case in the case of specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4025	This is an interesting debate, but it is also a bit of a special debate. For information purposes only: I hear some parties, Christian People's Party and Right, mention some directors or employees in hospitals. I can at least reassure myself that three of the four directors of regional health care companies are trained doctors and have been absolutely in patient treatment, so they know what they're talking about. Then there have been questions about this with the regional health companies and why it is important. Now Geir-Ketil Hansen responded very well. In fact, it is not possible to sit in Oslo and make distributions and provisions for health businesses in other parts of the country. It's so different. The fact that you have a breakdown that allows you to have sufficient population so that you can provide both specialised services and close services is important. I just want to refer to the national health and care plan, where it says what is a minimum of these local hospitals. Then there was also one in the debate that talked about that if you had a stroke or heart attack in Nordfjord, it would be four hours for them to belong to Nordfjord Hospital, to Førde. You may be treated for stroke, at least get the first treatment, in a local hospital. In that case, you will also have to have it in the future. But if you have problems with your heart, you will not be taken to the nearest hospital, but you will be taken to that hospital – and there are very few of them in the country – that treat precisely this type of suffering. That's why it's so important that we also have an ambulance service that plays with both local hospitals and the most specialised services, and that gets us where we can get better. It's not like if you really get sick, you pick the nearest hospital. You choose that hospital – fortunately, someone else chooses for you – where you can get well and where you can get the best help. So it's like that over 70 pst. of all those who enter a hospital acutely, are suffering from an internal medical condition. This is precisely why it is important that these services should be good in all local hospitals. There you have to have specialists, and then we have to expand an offer that's decentralised, to the population, so they don't have to travel long distances to get specialist health services. Specialist health services of all types other than, for example: Inpatient and most acute preparedness need not be a success in local hospitals. It can also be used as outpatient services. It's important that we see this in a broad context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4038	First of all, I experience today that employees in all the country's hospitals do a very good job no matter what position they have. If you are a cleaner, an assistant nurse, a doctor or a director, every day you do a fabulous job. The representative Dale was very concerned about the salaries of the four directors of regional health companies. When the county councils were in charge, there were 19 directors, and there were large health administrations in each state. I want to say that the distribution we have now contributed to less administration. The tasks of these health directors were related to distribution within one region, for in the past, we experienced that the various hospitals competed to build different or equal offers for their population, which later became redundant. All health services are changing. We see that the offers change almost from day to day, not least from bed items to day care. The infrastructure and distance from health services are being shortened as both roads and bridges are still being built in our country. It is also important that different university hospitals have different specialist health services and different services. It also applies to local hospitals. Different local hospitals have different services that are adapted to local circumstances. It also applies to local medical centres. All local medical centres that are now under construction do not have the same range of services. These offers are adapted to the population base of that region. This also applies to district psychiatric centres and drug treatment provision. We can't have that fascination that a local hospital, a hospital or whatever it may be, should have equal offers wherever you live in the country. It's about building this up a different way. I think, when we see what diseases will grow in the future, lifestyle diseases and chronic diseases, it's about building up local services that people have closeness to, that create security, and that can provide good accessibility for the suffering they have. In the context of the new Public Health Act presented: How are we to prevent better, contribute to good health and services in all the municipalities of the country? We need to get a short distance from the specialist health service. Through the new national health and care plan, we are also building up the specialist healthcare service. We decentralize it so that the availability of specialists is improved for the population and also provides a better quality of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4054	It seems that this debate is so good that the hall is gradually being filled. I am not going to spend a long time, but I would like to start with the article from the representative, Höie. [[Laughter]] He said that this debate has only historical value, because if it were to become a blue government once, regional health businesses would immediately be closed down. I can't prove that, but I don't think there's any historical experience for that to be true. The right and Christian People's Party held this position in the spring of 2001, when the Storting debated the corporate organization. I was interested at the time, employed in Akershu County and followed the debate from the gallery. Christian People's Party and Right had the position already then; it's not ten years of experience and maturity that have led to these two parties having this position. From the autumn of 2001 onwards for four years, these two batches were placed in government. One party had the prime minister, the other had the finance minister. And they took one period each to have the Minister of Health. However, in four years there was no proposal to shut down regional health businesses. That is why I believe that the argument that this debate has only historical value is not so strong. Very short: a model has no independent value. It shall only be a tool for implementing the desired policy. I have a completely open mind for others and better suggestions to organise the specialist health service, but so far I haven't seen any suggestions that I believe in any more. Does that mean that I'm satisfied with everything as it is today? No, it doesn't. I experience things in my own region, in my own state, with which I am not satisfied. Often I take it up. Sometimes we've gotten through and changed things. I'm not satisfied with the musical skills in doing this in all respects, but we're working on it by improving control. It's not always right to create a new reform and come up with a new model. One should often and often have to repair within a model that has qualities in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4063	There has been an interesting debate to follow. But I couldn't stop listening to the representative Jorod Asphjell from the Workers' Party, who tried to say that after getting the regional health companies, the bureaucracy suddenly became much less than what you had before, and it became much cheaper. I definitely don't think it's the experience of most people and those who work in the different hospitals. So I do feel that the representative Asphjell has a slightly different reality than most people do when it comes to how regional health companies now work. I definitely don't think they work very well. There are many conflicts between hospitals and regional health businesses. So I reacted very strongly when I heard how amazing this was. We know that after setting up regional health companies, people were sent on study leave with pretty good pay, because you didn't have anything sensible to put them to do. I agree – and I think – that everyone in the healthcare community is working to provide people with the best possible healthcare. But it is interesting to note that parties that are really in favour of the proposal are today going to vote against the proposal, such as. The center party, which says they're busy with the local hospitals and the preservation of the local hospitals. But today they'll fully show that they're busy at the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4072	The representative Bent Höie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4075	It was the representative of Health that I have to answer. First, it was nice to hear that Health was at the gallery and listened to them. I took part in the debate on the responsibilities reform in 2001 in Stortinget. The reason why the Bondevik II government did not reform that reform – even though the Right had a different model and the Christian People's Party had a completely different model, because they were still for a municipal operation of the hospitals – was that a broad majority in the Great Britain had adopted a model that was very demanding to implement, perhaps one of the reasons why the Stoltenberg I government was carried out by the government offices, but which, at least then, Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten carried out in the tradition of Norway, that major reforms are not being reversed, even if a change of government is soon followed. Now, however, ten years have passed, and there is something else significant that has also happened. In this setting it will be possible to read that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Advance Party have comments that go in exactly the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4084	Then the President has not recorded that several have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3635]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4097	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4121	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1-3 has been included in the setting on page 4, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The government asks the government to file a case for revision of the applicable law so that Sunday-open shops are made possible.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The government is asked by the government to prevent the circumvention of the opening time provisions in the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act.’ Proposal No. 4, from the left, says: «The government asks the government to promote a bill that removes state restrictions on opening hours in shops and the sale and donation of alcohol and replaces Section 5 of the Holidays and Holiday Peace Act with a provision that allows the municipalities to limit the opening hours locally.» Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 1, 3 and 4 shall be entered on the agenda as a matter of their own at a later meeting. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 24 February 1995 12 on Holidays and Holiday Peace
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4211	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:71 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The president drew attention to the fact that the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4240	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Magne Rommetveit on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Lars Myraune on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement changes in the unloading service with a view to reducing the number of unloadings and the reduction of charges and charges associated with the unloading service imposed. The size points in particular to the possibility of improving the system of evidence of fairway. The size assumes that measures do not increase the level of risk.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4268	The president drew attention to the fact that the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the Committee's position. Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:53 S [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4290	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the lifting of the submarine U-864 and the removal of the mercury load as soon as possible, as well as the necessary post-processing with the protection of the contaminated seabed. The size is kept regularly informed of the progress of the project.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4317	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inbjørg Vosskensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Lødemel on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the submission of a case for the realisation of the City Tunnel as a OPS project.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4343	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the start of the construction of the City Ship Tunnel based on the option Large Tunnel as soon as possible and submit proposals for the necessary additional appropriations for the revision of the 2011 national budget. The government is asking for funds if it is necessary to make progress in the matter. The government is asked to consider the extension as a OPS project.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4374	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the development of rv. 80 Løding - Vikan i Bodø kommune in Nordland [[Roadpack Salt Phase 2a]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4411	During the debate, Mr Kjernli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:62 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The president drew attention to the fact that the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4440	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Susanne Bratli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2–5, from Inbjørg Vossken on behalf of the Party for Progress First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–5, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the summer of 2011 with measures to improve road safety, including: – a complete overview of the most hazardous routes on national and county roads – proposals for measures on the routes at risk of accidents, in particular middle parts and road maintenance and road operation – a plan for the financing of road safety measures – proposals for the liability of road keepers and roadside roads for lack of road safety’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in road standards to ensure that new roads are built with effective protective measures such as a central or multi-field road with a physical barrier between lanes with different directions of travel.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and implement the minimum operational standard for the administrative and administrative roads and roads.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to add to the 2012 government budget a reduction in the one-off car purchase fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4506	The Committee's position on I is the first to be voted on. The president pointed out that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre were behind the Committee's position on I.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4521	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on II and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:76 S [[2010-2011]] The President notes that it is the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the Committee's position on II, and that the Left supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4543	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Freddy de Ruiter, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of proposals for amended legislation and regulations for the taxi industry with a focus on deregulation and effective control.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4571	The President makes it clear that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote. Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:77 S [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4593	In the course of the debate, Mr Vosskensen has put forward two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make concrete proposals for increased winter safety with Norwegian and, in particular, non-resident trailers on Norwegian roads, including the requirement for depth of pattern, the prohibition of certain types of train at exposed mountain crossings, a more stringent criminal regime, especially for foreign drivers and the use of trailer columns on exposed roads.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for more intensive checks on border crossings and ferry arrivals which prohibit use under the Road Traffic Act if vehicles are not suitable for winter driving, as well as for the development and deployment of simple information material on ferries and cross-border crossings on the closure of winter traffic in Norway, on columning, chaining, etc.’.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4627	During the debate, Mr Tende has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a public register of approved traffic schools. The register should contain relevant publicly available information relevant to the choice of driving school by pupils, details of studies by the State Road Service on the traffic schools and the percentage of driving school by road.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e4654	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Filip Back on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The government asks the government to propose an amendment to the alcohol law in order to give the municipalities an extended opportunity to set the donation time for alcohol.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The government is asked to draw up national guidelines on criminality in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law.’ Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 1 and 3 will be entered on the agenda as a matter of their own at a later meeting. There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 2 to 5 of the second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: The supply of alcoholic beverages by private admission shall be prohibited on Sundays and public holidays, 1 and 17 May. Paragraphs 3 to 4 of the third paragraph are replaced by the following: Sales by the AS Vinmonopolet are prohibited on Sundays and public holidays, 1 and 17 May. Paragraphs 3 to 7 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Sale and delivery of drinks as referred to in the first subparagraph shall not take place on Sundays and public holidays, 1 and 17 May.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5114	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee in Section 4-4, fourth paragraph, and proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party, which reads: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. The following shall be amended: Paragraphs 1 to 8 new sixth subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry may issue a regulation conferring on the municipality the competence to empower inspectors to withdraw the authorisation immediately. Such a regulation shall specify the procedure for such withdrawal. The provisions governing the proceedings may differ from those of the Administrative Act. Paragraphs 4 to 4 of the fourth paragraph are replaced by the following: The donation of alcoholic beverages with 22 % vol. alcohol or more is prohibited between 1 p.m. 02.00 and 13.00. The donation of other alcoholic beverages shall be prohibited between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. 02.00 and 06.00.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5138	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5148	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5158	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5166	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward, namely proposals Nos. 1-3 from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Government to put forward a strategy for Norwegian biomedicine, including concrete proposals on how to increase access to capital by industry, on how to increase and target research and development in this area, on how to commercialise research to a greater extent and on how to further develop State funding and support schemes. Whether or not a Strategy Council for the Development of Norwegian Medicinal and Health-related Biomedical Industries should be established is specifically addressed in the Strategy. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the State of Law in the event of the exchange of medicinal products and, in particular, biological medicinal products, where the case-file sets out, inter alia, how the Government considers the legal status of the medicinal product to be and should be in the future.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the protection of patents for medicinal products in Norway is in line with international rules and to ensure effective protection of copyright.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5205	During the debate, Mr Rygg presented six proposals, the proposals No. 1-6, on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that knowledge-based measures that have an impact on alcohol availability are included in municipal plans.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the setting up in cities of drugfree matches, cultural offers and concerts for young people over 16 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5229	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3–6, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate a police presence.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust police measurement parameters to encourage increased prevention and security efforts.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce as a general strategy in the police that there should be zero tolerance and rapid fines for less serious crimes.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate a reduction in the length of proceedings in the courts.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have notified that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5279	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 5, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included in the setting on page 6, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the left, which reads: ‘The government is asked at regular intervals to provide a big message clarifying the government’s policy on migration processes in health businesses.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5308	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, and the Christian People's Party, saying, ‘The government is asking for better use of the total authorised healthcare provision in Norway in order to avoid patients not receiving treatment while the available relevant capacity in the healthcare system is unused.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5323	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, and the Christian People's Party, saying, ‘The government is asking for the freezing of ongoing and planned conversion processes that will reduce the tasks of local hospitals in the field of necessary health care, such as food and emergency care, until a national health plan has been drawn up, emphasising investigations regarding the development of acute and broad competence, as well as financial instruments adapted to local hospitals.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5344	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to close regional health businesses.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national hospital plan as part of the national health and care plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-14.ana.ud2435e5477	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will be allowed to wish all representatives and employees of the Stortinget a very good and long Easter holiday. [[Laughter]] Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
