ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e49	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Jenny Klinge, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Eirin Sund, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. They called the alternates, because Buskerud County Kjell Børre Hansen and for Sogn and Fjordane County Knut Magnus Olsen, have taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Per Arne Olsen from 11 January to 19 January from the Working Party on sick leave for the representative Torstein Rudihagen from 11 January onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Right on sick leave for the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli from 11 January onwards from the Group of the Workers' Party on leave for the representative Laila Gustavsen to participate in field visits to Kenya and Uganda under the auspices of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative from 11 January to 13 January On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Bente Stein MathisenFor Buskerud County: Nina MjøbergFor Oppland County: Espen Granberg JohnsenFor Vestfold County: Morten Stordalen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e127	Bente Stein Mathisen, Nina Mjøberg, Espen Granberg Johnsen and Morten Stordalen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e135	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e138	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose senior measures to maintain valuable competence in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e143	The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e146	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Lars Myraune, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on the competitive deployment of the Kongsvingerbahn. Otherwise, I wish the President a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e151	Thank you, in the same way. The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we move on to the agenda, the President will propose, in consultation with the Committee, that issue no. 2 to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e171	As the President explained, there are now two constitutional proposals that are being dealt with. One proposal is to delete the entire content of the Basic Law § 107, i.e. the law of nobility and the law of liability, and the other to delete nobility. These institutes represent long traditions in Norwegian law and in Norwegian culture. There are hardly any institutes that we've had with us any longer, they're stretching all the way back to all the famous Norwegian history. In their proposals, the proposers claim that the Institutes are in violation of the principles of freedom and property rights and that they put unfortunate ties on structural development and hamper the development of profitable and robust agriculture. I want to add that this has been a repetition of a discussion, actually since Eidsvoll and 1814. A similar proposal actually received a majority in the mid-1850s, but not constitutional majority. That is why there is a basis for saying that the proposals we are now dealing with are not an expression of any new ideas. We, who defend the right of nobility and the right of residence, are not only concerned with tradition and history, but – most importantly – also with the security and firmness that the Institute represents around what has been the ideal for 1,000 years, namely seafaring and free Norwegian farmers. It is also worth noting that the Odel Institute is unique in Europe and the West today. I want to go so far as to say that the Odels- und Jästesinstitute has shaped the way we in Norway think about property and property. And what is it that characterizes Norwegian thinking – if I get to use two words on it? First, there is a balance between right and obligation. It follows commitments with the rights entailed in ownership. Norway is safely planted in a Germanic tradition, and the strongest expressions of it are the compulsory employment imposed by the Concession Act and the obligation to live, which is also provided for by the Concession Act. But most of all, Norwegian property rights are democratic. The way we have enforced and developed Norwegian property rights has made it possible to say that this is an opportunity for the many and not a right for the few. This has resulted in almost 200,000 land and forest properties in Norway, which many believe are far too much. But the fact that there are 200,000 people who own land and forests also testifies to an egalitarian society and a thinking about property that characterizes us. This has also changed to Norwegian housing policy, and I believe that a long time should be spent looking for countries where there is such a great connection between the population register and the basic book. Having one's own home, having one's own property, creates free people. This, I believe, is also pointing forward, but it does not get off the ground, it requires regulation, and it requires willingness to do so to be progress. Thus, when these proposals are being debated, we are at a great ideological gap in Norwegian policy. It is not possible to see this proposal alone, we need to see the total of the package offered by the opposition – Left, Right and Advance Party – here. For it is not only the parent and head office being attacked, including the concession law, with price regulation, housing obligations, all forms of public regulation, that are systematically attacked by the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. This means that, from the opposition's point of view, it is again the capital to be released into the Norwegian countryside and that it is the capital that will again govern who is to control the land and forest resources in Norway. This will focus ownership on few capital companies and individuals. So someone would say that this is the terror propaganda from the undersigned. But it's just looking around, to Sweden, to Denmark, to Germany, to Europe, you'll see that it's the tradition that applies, and that it's the reality of all these societies. I'll call it an unhealthy development and a loss for the nation in that case. Because it is that the law of nobility and liability and the law of concession guarantee a democratic and egalitarian property right that is locally anchored. So the question comes: are there any unfortunate consequences and consequences of the law and the law of law? Yes, I'll be honest to admit, of course. It's possible to put arguments in the field against it, but the benefits are far greater than the disadvantages. It was also the almost unambiguous conclusion of the Odel Law Committee that dealt with this issue in depth a few years ago. The opposition is still on the road in agriculture, drawing a picture on the agricultural side of an industry that is unable to convert, which is not effective, where not much is happening. I think that the Right Party and the Advance Party, in particular the Advance Party, should end. You should start talking nice about agriculture, just because there's a huge change. Maybe it happens too fast, maybe that's how we can't take care of some of the values that are hugely important to this nation in many ways. An expression of what is happening is that industry productivity growth is much higher than in all other parts of Norwegian business, while profitability is low. And so is the fact that the odelsinstitut is not static. Another impression given is that it is not converted in line with the time and the time. Until that time, it is to state that the Odelinstitute has been subject to major changes over time. Even the Constitutional Institute must be in line with time and urgency. Major changes were made shortly back — in the spring of 2009 — where the majority just provided for a freer movement of agricultural and forest property, emphasising the need to increase access to and a greater link between those who own land and those who run land. There have been major changes, and it is therefore with a very good conscience that I can present a majority position that also this time rings the ring of the nobility and the dissident.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e199	I am one of those who have had odel, and together with my three siblings, I have written off the odels both for myself and for my descendants – that is how it is – to a small farm in the North Odal. I did so in confidence that the person who took over – she was – would ensure the operation and maintenance, not least secure the cultural landscape of the property. It was crucial for us. For the law of the land, there has been a healthy development of buildings, a most necessary cultural landscape and a brake on the commercial purchase of landowners in Norway. Odelsrecht has contributed to, I would say, a more egalitarian development and has subsequently also ensured equality between women and farmers. The Odel Act has roots back to the old laws of law, among others. The Gulatings Act. Soil property was considered to belong to the genus. As a result, the relative was granted certain rights, both pre-emptive and rights of redemption. Odelsrechten was attacked by Danish lawyers – we should also remember – in the 1700s, and it prevented the Danish landowners from buying up land and forest in Norway. In 1814, it was regarded as a national clonedy — if the representatives wanted to look up and see — and therefore it was legislated. And that's really what we're dealing with today, the question of whether the law of the land should be constitutional. Odel rights may only be acquired over land on land – at least 25 decars of cultivated land or 500 decars of productive forest, rights of solution six months. Odel arises immediately after 20 years of uninterrupted possession of the same person or his heirs. Odel rights are due to the descendants of the owner. The succession was basically what's called – I'm not allowed to try to stumble in the words – Agnatic-kognatic after the first birthright. So now this has been equated, not just between women and men, but it's also equal in terms of adopted children. Odour rights are in excess of their full value – they apply in the case of odour division requirements. Let me add that the law of nobility was to ensure that the property remained so large that it could feed a family. It has secured against excessive subdivision. Odel law has otherwise been a brake on soil accumulation in a few hands. Norway has therefore had a higher distribution than most other countries, so there has not been a need for land reform in Norway – we should also bear that in mind. The Odel Act provides women today with a stronger right to acquire farming. We also see that there are some women on the way to getting odel – it has been for a while – who also take over small and large farms. I do not think – and I believe that the rapporteur also said so – that there are other countries that have a better system, after all. For example, Finland has been in complete free circulation for 10 years and has led to an unfortunate fragmentation, including in particular: of forest properties. Of course, that's not perfect. It may involve an unnecessary lock-in. The adjustments made by the current government show that this law of nobility can also be adapted to new times. A unanimous committee asks the government to consider, when submitting an agricultural notification not so long, reducing the size of the circle which has no part. There is no reason why nephews of uncle, siblings and other marginal relatives should be able to claim this right. It should be in direct line – siblings, children, etc. down. Finally, the case rapporteur – or perhaps it's an adviser, what I know – has taken care of both the national meeting at Eidsvoll, Nicolai Wergeland and Christian Magnus Falsen in the committee position. When they look down on us here, we're just going to remember Falsen's words that no one here to land had the opportunity to accumulate large properties. It's a value that has contributed to our egalitarian society, a society that we're all very proud of. We therefore believe, on the part of the Workers' Party, that the right to vote should continue to be constitutional in accordance with the tradition and development we have had – perhaps out of respect for the mariners, as were men at the time. I would therefore recommend the majority vote that we continue to have fundamental legislation, and we therefore vote against the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e221	Odels- und Jässetesrecht has been an important part of Norwegian agricultural thinking and legal cultural heritage for a very long time. It is also clear, however, that even before the founding fathers assembled at Eidsvoll, it was suggested that the right of appeal should be terminated. The main reason for this was to remove the restriction of the right to ownership and the need for more efficient agriculture. The majority of the Constitutional Assembly clearly disagreed with that line of thought and, after considerable conflict, was banned by the Constitution. In 2003, the Ministry of Agriculture’s figures suggested that it should be close to 80 pst. of the agricultural properties of cultivated land and forest and open-air areas would be unearthed. It is difficult to defend this right of appeal to the few who are familiar with this form of agricultural property. In reality, the law is a thorough restriction of the property rights of the rest of the country's citizens in relation to their property, and it seems to be very restrictive in relation to the development of agricultural policy. This is essentially the same argument that was used against the right to vote 200 years ago. A number of the considerations initially intended to safeguard the rights of the public and the public can be pursued politically through, for example, concession law. In this way, a more rapid legislative adjustment can be made to the current situation in agriculture. It is not surprising that having a framework for agricultural policy that is hundreds of years old places some limitations on the ability to develop sustainable and modern agriculture in 2011. I think it is well illustrated in the majority comment by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party in the position, and which the representative Marit Nybakk also repeated here from the pulpit today, when they show that in 1815 Christian Magnus Falsen published a writing entitled "Norway's Right to the Right, in regard to the Constitution of the Kingdom", in which he just wrote that the law of the land had helped to ensure that no one in Norway had the opportunity to collect large estates. This is still the case in fact, with a few exceptions, where the state is the largest. Is it really the case that Norwegian agriculture should have the same unit size and structure as in 1815? I can understand that one from an agricultural conservative point of view, where the starting point is that everything was actually better before, can say that the right to vote is a good one. However, it is far more problematic to see that the right to vote in itself will help to make Norwegian agriculture more viable, more profitable and more attractive as a job. Therefore, it may be appropriate, not least in view of the intervention by the representative Nybakk, to end with some words that allegedly should have fallen from Christian Frederik in dealing with this issue by the Eidsvoll Assembly – there may actually be some kind of illustration of what is still the main argument of the defender of the law. His vision is as follows: "He thought it ought to be supported, whether its benefits were even only prejudices." I will bring up the minority proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the representatives of the Progress Party are recommended to support that proposal and, in other words, the proposal that will probably be addressed by the Left some later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e239	The representative of Anders Anundsen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e242	It is not difficult to agree with the rapporteur that the right to vote and to vote have long traditions, but it was created at a different time, as other speakers have done. When you make it as rewarding as the rapporteur did, I have to say that I am quite provoked. It's a strange rule, most other countries are doing very well without it. If you look at the development of Norwegian society since the creation of the ovil right, we have gone from being an agrarian society to being a society based on knowledge and service-based business. There are very few, a small proportion of the population, who are employed in agriculture. There has been a rather constant decline in employment in agriculture, but at the same time the industry has experienced a strong productivity growth, a strong development of research and innovation. It has helped to ensure that more is actually produced than the agriculture that was totally dominant in employment — that is, a success story. There are significantly fewer active operators. One has gone from approx. 200,000 after the war to 50,000 today. The statistics show a rather horrific fumigation, a lack of recruitment and a mass farm use without light and activity. Soil rent represents 40 pst. the operation of the agricultural areas but ensures that the areas are kept in claim. It's an important part of this. The settlement in District Norway today depends more on employment than on the activity of farms. It also shows relocation statistics, which are the strongest where alternative employment opportunities are the worst. The farm can be a great place to live and a desirable additional employment, but it will no longer be the main income for most. That's why I think the absolute duty in many contexts is going to be as prominent as the absolute right. It's quite timely to have a discussion about the odd right place in the Norwegian system. Agriculture is changing. You should be much better at marketing that you're really pretty good at dealing with these changes, which I was about before, but there's another debate. However, the right has realised that the time has now come to remove the constitutional protection of the right to vote and to sit down. We therefore support the proposals in Document No. 12:8 for 2007-2008 to repeal the Constitution § 107. Subsidy, we support the proposals in Document No. 12:11 for 2007-2008, where the right of residence exists. As other speakers have pointed out, arguments can be put forward both in favour of and against the right to vote and to sit down. It ensures the ability of women to take over. It has been quite right in the majority and the representative Nybakk, and has seen it as important to change at least the gender structure of agriculture a little over time. It creates greater certainty for the next generation, regardless of the predecessor’s nodule, but the concession law has no direct relevance to the odel law. However, the price adjustments of the concession law keep the price level of Norwegian agricultural properties down. This has been demonstrated very well by the state and state forest through the purchase of Borregaard Forests. As long as the odel law lasts, you ensure that the values worked up over generations, don't pass on to others without the family being able to secure the hidden values, that is, you take away some of the uncertainty within the families. But it also reveals many of the disadvantages. The Odel Act is part of a law that prevents the necessary conversion, structuralisation and modernisation of Norwegian agriculture. It is an intervention in private property law. Whatever the rapporteur and the centre party make, it is an intervention in the owner's own provision for own property. However, in all these areas, the regulations made up of the concession laws are a major obstacle and must be removed simultaneously or first. When the majority can write that the law of no part contributes to safeguarding the holder as a self-owner, it must be due to a misunderstanding. The Odel Act gives the oldest child a right to take over. It's not necessarily the best fit, it can show a lot of examples. That the Odel Law Committee and the majority can claim that this is a good prerequisite for better agriculture and proper property structure becomes a wonderful argument. What you could say is that it ensures that things exist as they are, in a world marked by great changes and demands for development, that is, an incarceration effect that Nybakk had on it. But if that is so very correct, one should at least be able to reflect on, because the need for restructuring is high in Norwegian agriculture. Traditional and family bonds are anyway big, and then all the regulations come in addition and lock it all down even more. When the rapporteur says that the law of nobility provides opportunities for the many and is not a right for the few, I must also wonder what perspectives you have. Obviously it gives a right within the family, but it keeps most of the others out of the market. So I want to dispute that part of the rapporteur's argument. I would also like to ask if he has evidence that it is the capital that governs in all other countries. I think it's actually the individual's competence, creativity and willingness to develop that governs in most other agricultural countries. As I said at the outset, most other countries are doing without no good law, and at least we don't have to blackmail what they're doing, but we have no good evidence of it. So it's a paradox that we're doubting a usage structure in an industry where productivity growth is constant and high. This means that farm work requires less and less, and operations seem to be less profitable. This is no political will to cover up through transfers, and what could have been a good story for the industry becomes a source of great frustration, all because of the lack of willingness to see that the structure must be allowed to change naturally through the free movement of properties. I mentioned that the right to vote for many is more of a sensitive obligation. There's a violently invented need for a generation change. The average age of owners is high. For many, the right to vote is a duty rather than a right, and the fact that the property cannot be freely transferred to others by virtue of the concession law imposes a burden. Values will be transferred to others through price adjustments if you do not choose to move home. There is a considerable pressure on many young people today, and I think it is also relevant to discuss that side of the case. All these arguments suggest that the law of no part will be subject to discussion in the future. We're not going to take it today, but it's a right step to abolish the constitutional protection of the odels. The right of residence is a valuation principle and ensures to the owner, in the straight-down line, the right to take over a farm under particularly favourable conditions. It is without prejudice to the relationship between the generations and the transfer of values between them. So it's a maximum internal family issue that's actually regulated by the law of taxation. Many families may need it, but it should no longer be linked to the Constitution. Finally, Odelslaw is strange, as I've said a couple of times. This creates a challenge in relation to, inter alia: non-resident buyers. Norwegian agriculture has been very concerned that non-resident buyers should not be brought in. But we now see that many district municipalities recruit foreigners to Norway by saying that there is empty small usage for sale that can be used. At that time, people enter Norway who have no experience of the odd right to vote. Today's business had a rather interesting two-page look, where it said, "Stand on the right to vote." It was a family that was lured up here by a municipality in Telemark by saying that they were buying small farms. They had sat so well into this that they had at least received an oral undertaking that the right to vote had been waived. But it turned out not to hold when it came to court. Most Nordics know that you have to get such things in writing. But contrary to such a strange rule as nobility, most foreigners will be quite puzzled. They moved here, bought a farm, and the result was that they were forced away from it again by nobility. So the ambitions of Norwegian municipalities to recruit tenants or other non-residents in order to secure population should at least create a little thought through such a case. The time has come to remove the right of nobility and liability from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e282	It was said by the case rapporteur that this is an old system, and it is absolute. There is also no new debate, because those who have opposed the arrangement have also had that debate in very many rounds in this house, almost since the morning, for here are the principles that violate a little old-fashioned ideals. There are many countries around the world that have old systems. That doesn't mean you have to take care of the old systems because if you've had them for a long time. The throwing system in India has also been a long one. It's also important to fight down. There are a lot of inherited, old systems that you have to fight down because of principles and new ideals. For the Left, which is a liberal party, it is a fundamental idea that positions are not inherited. Presenting inheritance as a distribution of positions as a democratic perspective, I don't understand. Here it is argued that if the firstborn has a right of inheritance, it will lead to stronger democracy than if everyone has the opportunity. I don't understand. It's an argument that I don't think hangs on the handle. What you see today is, first of all, what has been said by many people, is that the right of nobility acts more often than the duty of nobility. A lot of people feel that they have no choice. This gives us many farmers who are not really motivated to take the job, but feel that they have to manage the house and land from the work of their ancestors. I think Norwegian agriculture would have been much better off getting engaged farmers, who want to use the farm for something other than feeling an obligation to take care of an inheritance. In particular, agriculture is the only area in which farms have to inherit firstborn. Is there any other type of enterprise, since this is such a huge democratic grip, where a system is also to be set up in which the first-born should have the right to take over the enterprise from inheritance? Then it was said that if not the capital was directed, or, it was argued, this would prevent commercial solutions. I thought the point of running an enterprise also in agriculture and in forestry was to make money. I think that's commercial. The fact that some people run agriculture commercially, I think it's great. I don't know if you saw a food show on TV yesterday. Some people travel around the country from farm to farm and make food programmes. A farmer has developed his farm by using a completely different animal from the one we usually have in Norway, namely South African goats. He has built a giant show around his farm, developed the farm into a business and has many employees today. We need more farmers like that. But to make such a big promise with its agricultural property, there are completely different driving forces you need than the obligation to take care of something after their ancestors. If we're going to have an active agriculture that's developing and that's capable of earning in the future, we need the creative farmers, the people who can think about new things. Then maybe it's best that the one who's the most motivated takes over, and not that it's always the first-born who's going to have the greatest motivation to take over something. History has shown us the opposite. I'm very glad that today's Right votes with the Left, because this is one of the fundamentals that the Right and Left have traditionally disagreed on, where the Right has stood on the side of the Right, and the Left has fought against. So this is a political movement that I think is very positive, and that shows that maybe some of the old rules from really old debates here are about to cancel. We see that this is another aspect of democracy here. That's where you really let the right go to a few. We've also had ownership structures. I, who come from a housekeeper's place, know that there were completely different rules for these when it was property, when it was compulsory work, and when it was liability. It has also been part of the Norwegian agricultural tradition, but part of the Norwegian agricultural tradition that I do not think we should take care of. This is a fight against the right and duty imposed on a few, in relation to democratic law, which means that everyone should have the opportunity to enter agriculture, sail if they have no inheritance to refer to. This is a struggle to allow those who are engaged in agriculture to take over, get the opportunity to develop it. This is a very old tradition that we should now shake off. If someone thinks it's had a historical role, it's over now. With that, I would like to address the proposal that the Left has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e308	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e311	I ask for the floor to say something about this matter from my point of view in the Business Committee and from my practical point of view, with experience in the work on agricultural issues. It can be said, from the opposition's point of view, that if you do not go in to remove the constitutional protection of the law and the law of liability, you are against the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture. That's not the case. So one proposal means that the Constitutional Act § 107 will be repealed. So the second proposal is to amend § 107 so that the basic law protection of the law of no part is removed, while the protection of the right of residence is maintained. It is fully possible to adapt the law of no part to today's challenges. The last time it was done was in 2009, by tightening up the deadlines and the procedure – as the rapporteur explained – a more effective non-legislative procedure. In that field, I think it can be done more. I have noticed that the right-wing parties' reason for removing the fundamental law protection of the nodel law is to balance trade in agricultural property as much as possible with other trades, leaving these transactions to the market as well. It is, to the extent that it is an okay position, if one wants capital to fully control the development of property in agriculture. I don't think there will be any good development. I think it is important to have predictability, a law that ensures that the owner also operates. Our differentiated agricultural structure and our tradition ensure a strong commitment and loyalty to the agricultural property. I think it's good. Those who claim that the law prevents changes in the structure of property and structural changes in agriculture should look at current agriculture, see how much happens. The rapporteur was quite specific about this. As indicated in the Committee's position, questions have been raised many times in the history of the law of nobility. The last time this was handled in a thorough manner was in the Odelslov Committee of 2003. The majority then considered that the right to vote contributed positively to a better agriculture, strengthened the self-ownership concept, facilitated a sensible property structure, district housing, gender equality, etc. – a wide range of good arguments to which the majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee subscribes. I also agree with that, but the majority of the Odelslovkommission also points out that the Odelslovkommission produces some undesirable effects, but considers it to be far more and more socially beneficial than the disadvantages. But one must not stifle the disadvantages that are, and the unfortunate effects of the odel law may have. It has been damaged for appropriate generation changers. Intervention from non-profits to those who have taken responsibility for the use, preferably together with the older generation, is a classic example, or a short and good example, that competent and competent stakeholders have not arrived. It often gets a lot of media attention. I don't think one should generalize out of this kind of single thing. It's a shame every time good people don't get there. But I would like to remind you that in the vast majority of cases it is the one that takes over no part, both competent and motivated, it is planned over the years, and it is so absolutely a wild situation. All in all, I believe that it is still the case that the constitutional protection of the law of no part and the law of liability has more serious, socially beneficial effects than disadvantages. This is a matter that has topicality, perhaps especially this year. The government is working on a major communication on agricultural and food policy. It should then be appropriate to consider aspects of the law relevant to property and land policy. I therefore fully agree with the committee majority's request to the government to consider reducing the size of the odel circuit. For my part, I would like to add that there may also be other elements in the law that should be considered in order to ensure that the law of nobility and the law is best suited to the challenges of the future, for the benefit of farmers and for the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e332	I noticed that the representative Nybakk relied on one of the eigensvollsmen, namely Christian Magnus Falsen's words on the odelslaw. Then perhaps I can say that it is bold to bring him in as a witness of truth – yes, in general in the case of constitutional changes – because when he later sat on the Stortingen, he promoted, as he knows, no less than 20 constitutional amendments because he considered his participation in the Eidsvoll National Assembly to be a misunderstood youth sin. His amendment largely consisted in abolishing the special rights entered in the Constitution originally. There is still some groundwork to see what he meant in his recent years about the right to vote. He became so unpopular that he finally rounded out his political career as a countyman in Bergen, where he made a ban on celebrating May 17. So to the serious in this, or the serious point. After all, it must be a cross of thought for those with a social democratic mindset to face a rather anachronistic legal institution that basically seeks to treat the transition of property from blood bands and privileges and from society as it happened to be. It's a strange form of conservatism, which actually counteracts the general development we have in society, towards the spread of property rights, that people can work towards property, desire it and realize their dreams. It is also emphasised almost as an argument for the law of nobility that it also ensures a closeness between drivers and owners. The truth is that there is a leasing and rental system that allows for a distance between the owners of the farm and those who run the farm as a unit. To those who had to believe that this is a special protection scheme for the villages: we have even seen well-located Western families come and loosed the genealogy of nodel, where they have had to ask local villagers to point out the right path to the property, from which they have later displaced the landlords away. Then you can ask: Have you seen a flash, based on a desire for social cohesion and the dissemination of ownership? I also have a comment for the rapporteur. I'm going to leave it to people to think what they want about his reference to German courts and blood and soil culture. I think it's quite special that in 2011 we should stand and argue for schemes that give people privileges based on their family relationships, and what inheritance they have in the family. I also have to point out that the Central Party is part of a government that, in daily terms, counteracts people's savings, punishes the acquisition of property, and that has now sent out changes in the basis for the equation that will lay the basis for a completely different taxation of the homes of ordinary people. Then I would like to ask the representative of the Central Party who comes after me: how does this fit with the praise of self-ownership democracy, when you are in a government that makes it more difficult for people to raise their capital on a daily basis? So it's that some of us may be a little more freedom-oriented, others may be more regulation-oriented, but it's not that by abolishing the law of nobility you give up control for those who want it. So we have a concession law that is not written into the Constitution and that can be changed by the changed political majority in this Chamber. There are tariff provisions for those who are large trailers of it. So there's no liberal release we're discussing today, perhaps by freeing ourselves from this anachronism that the odel law represents today in a modern society. I also refer to the damage done by the odelinstitute by undermining the mortgage in rural areas, because a right of solution will always be a risk to those who consider granting loans to agricultural property. This has been documented from a scientific point of view. In what was formerly called the Norwegian Agricultural College, at Ås, today called the University of Environmental and Life Sciences, it is a highly viable economic environment that has just been interested in what the undermining of the mortgages has resulted from adverse effects. Then there is no longer a question of whether this is a provision with which one should only adorn and continue to have in the Constitution because it has been there for a long time, but whether it simply does more harm than good. Our party has come to the conclusion that the time has come to replace a provision that actually works counterproductively and does not contribute to the spread of property.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e351	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Moe, for a strong and clear principleal justification for the Odelsinstitute. What distinguishes the Norwegian agricultural society is sea-going and sea-lording, free farmers. What those who stand for the ideology of economic liberalism here fail to say is that precisely this tradition, these principles of the seafaring free farmer in many countries, is seen as a model. There are many movements and farmers around the world who see it as a model, not least a number of developing countries. Those who follow in what is happening in discussions about land reform and freedom, so that one can retain a greater share of the returns of his own work, look to such systems as the odelinstitute represents. Many argue for land reforms, away from a system where remote owners control the land and the interests of rural workers. A wish for a system of sea-lording free farmers. It is strong when the parliamentary leader of the Left compares the Odel Institute with the caste system in India. There is something on the side and strong to experience for the one who has read the history of the Left, from which also the Center Party has its background. I would say that the tradition that the Central Party continues here is best suited to what was the main principles of the democratic Left during the party's period of greatness. The Odel Institute is, as many people have said, a protection against the forces of capital. Protection against those who primarily have their interests related to ownership is not related to the long-term use. Those who have stood for an economic liberalism such as their ideology have, throughout all time and in every country, been opposed to such an institute as the law of nobility. The Norwegian Right has not previously been in such an economic liberalist tradition and, according to its former value conservatism, has ended up in the law of nobility. Now it's changed. It's very important, and it's going to be an important discussion around. The central party sees the distribution of power as very central, and the distribution of ownership is an important part of the distribution of power. By spreading the ownership of the land of the many, we get a spread of power. This is why the issue of private ownership has always been important. Those who have joined a communist ideology have believed that one could not have private property rights, because it gave the private property owners a power that was improper to those who did not. In Norway, inspired by the Odelinstitute and the distribution of ownership rights to the many in terms of land, we also have a situation in which, when one links our view to property rights, to property obligations, a social institution is considered beneficial. It is also, as has been said, involved in strengthening democracy. Managing responsibility for scarce natural resources is very central and the Odel Institute ensures long-term sustainability. I would say that in no business, long-term care and management responsibility are more important than land. Anyone who knows the fertility of the earth and the cycle of forest issues in terms of planting, thinning, hoarding and everything knows that we're talking about a long-termity that goes over generations. It is a biological fact that such conditions are best cared for when one has institutions that stimulate that kind of thinking and security. Therefore, it is also organised in the Norwegian tradition. This view of property rights for the many also – as Ola Borten Moe had in mind – has its political parallel to the ownership of housing. In Norway, there is a large majority who own their dwelling, not rent a dwelling. The inspiration for this comes from the view of ownership of land, and no one dares to stand up today and say that it would be an advantage that in Norway we had more people who rented, and fewer who owned their own home. Still, in the Right Party, it is an advantage for most people to own their own home. But using the tools, to make sure it's not that strong a lot of times. For the Central Party and the Workers' Party, it has been said quite central that we should have legal and economic instruments that made people most likely to own their own homes. It was something great, it's part of the Norwegian, the Norwegian most of the Norwegian, and it's something strange. That's something we're proud of. We should be proud of the strange thing that works well because it has proved useful, and that many today operate their farm based on a trusteeship in a noble tradition. I'm going to claim that many run it financially despite the financial possibilities, but they have the management responsibility in them, and that's some of it fine. I have been to a number of jobs and met proud trade union workers. I remember being at a Kværner company in Nydalen and experienced the connection to the workplace that these trade union workers had, while the trade union workers had no ownership rights. They had no management rights, which I as a farmer have to my farm. I then understood the great difference and the great privilege it is to have a link of ownership and a trusteeship. So I also became a warm supporter of the fact that the trade unionists were going to have more influence over their own jobs, because it triggered something positive and productive in them, which was for their own and for the benefit of society. We're facing some of the great things here with our view of property, which is linked to property-related obligations. What is the threat today to the property tradition that we have? Well, it's seaworthy, as someone's been about, that in a noble relationship you have an odd right, but it's in law connected with a noble obligation, and there's a lot of people trying to turn away from the obligation of nobility. And a law of nobility with no qualms without no qualms becomes a bad law. Therefore, the Storting must continuously ensure that the interaction is present. The majority is also responsible for the fact that those in this tradition have an income option from their work. The representative, Gundersen, is talking here as if the Norwegian tradition is that a single person has been using full-time. The Norwegian tradition is a diversity of links to agricultural activity, full-time and part-time, in a true mix. It's been, it's going to be, and it's a robust system that's adapted to the Norwegian natural conditions. That's what's most advantageous, having such a system, in every way. It is mentioned that agricultural labour productivity has increased strongly, at least over the last ten years. Yes, it has been doubled a year, and it was supposed to guarantee that such labour productivity development would provide income opportunities for those who work there, who were better than others. When it has not happened, it is maritimely linked to the political understanding of that work. It is linked to the fact that the production life of food production and forest production today is not adequately regarded in relation to other parts of the world of work. Moreover, production life is not sufficiently regarded in relation to trade in the products under the control of these primary producers. What we are facing now in respect of the ownership of agricultural land is something far more than the issue of the tillage law. We are now in the midst of a discussion about whether we are still going to bet on a family farm or a company farm. The family agriculture that we have in Norway – and we have legislation related to it – is an agriculture related to private property rights, rights and obligations and an unlimited financial responsibility for those who run it. It is free for all people, regardless of ethnicity and where they come from, to get an entry into such a tradition in Norway. Whether you're stopping or what you are – no problem getting to it. Any property earns no part in 20 years and has the rights and obligations it entails. If we go to the company farm, we know from the discussion that we had here before Christmas in relation to the sale of Borregaard Forest, that then we get an agriculture linked to a form of ownership where there are no rights and obligations, and where there is limited financial responsibility. It's more short-term and more unstable. The international historical experience is that it is family ownership that is most sustainable, but there are sharp ideological divisions around the world. The Norwegian tradition is family farming. The international and national liberalist economic tradition is company agriculture. The Progress Party is talking about narrow-minded property rights. The representative of Gundersen is talking about interference with ownership. No, the nobility and ownership tradition that I have tried to describe here is not an interference with private ownership. That's our property definition. Our ownership definition is a property right with rights and obligations. Of course, a definition of ownership with obligations is an intervention for those who want to scald and choose with ownership, to say it trendy. That way, there's an intervention. But as duties and rights are in Norwegian property law tradition, Norwegian – for the time being, and I hope in the long term – and the Central Party's pillars on these issues. The left is a strong opponent, obviously now, of this tradition, and one is talking here about positions not to be inherited. What's at the heart of the law of nobility is that you have the right to acquire a right of ownership, but you have to fulfil an obligation. So it's a two-sidedness. And as mentioned, everyone can renovate on the farm if a owner owns the farm for 20 years. There are committed farmers, not least among those who are in the nobility, for the nobles, I would say, have generally better conditions to take over through the relationship they have with the working life and tasks that one here faces, while there are a number of people outside the tradition that have good assumptions, because they have a genuine interest in it, and they are going to have occasion to do so. That's the Center Party line. Finally, the representative Tetzschner spoke of the odelslaw as contributing to a leasing system. No, it's the financial framework conditions that make us get the development of the leasing system that we see today by that you have to rent areas that others don't run. Then the representative Tetzschner spoke about ‘privileged’ in connection with the Odelslagen Act, while the representative Gundersen talks about ‘intervention’ in property law. There is, of course, a considerable misunderstanding here. One must decide whether it is privileges or interference. And then the representative Tetzschner points out to the scientific team at the high school of agriculture at Ås – yes, it shows little about what is the understanding of this situation. As far as I know, it is referred to, Professor Normann Anesland – my adviser for the main task in his time – and he is a hot follower of both an import protection on food and, as far as I know, a noble institute that ensures this long-termity. That's a great law. I welcome the rapporteur's introduction and I am pleased that it is a majority for it, and I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is part of that majority. It is an important matter, and it is highly disappointing that the Left and Right take the position that they are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e390	It was the reference to the Right's view of ownership that made me take the word, because our view of ownership is positive, it's unruly, and it's basically. We want to spread ownership. The Odel Institute does not contribute to that. It contributes to a strange queue in connection with inheritance crossings. Now I noticed that the Left used an example from India. I think it might be more natural to pick up the example from Nicaragua, where a thousand families thought it was an excellent idea that the thousands of families had at any time reserved 80 pst. by the State of Nicaragua. It's also an institute of nobles. So we want democratization by bringing closeness between those who live by a custom and those who own it. Nor was the example called into question by the representative Lundteg that it can come as a solution seen from outside people without any roots in the village claiming a relationship with relatives, and that pushes those who have actually run up the use for a long time, through rental or leasing institutions. I agree with the representative Lundtigen that the housing market is functioning well. This is because they have invested in self-employment in Norway, without any special restrictions. If you were to compare, if you were to introduce some kind of odel institute into ordinary housing stock, it would mean that people could come and redeem Aunt Agathe's apartment in Thorvald Meyer's street because she had lived there once in the 1930s, regardless of whether there had been anyone who had lived there in between. Of course, it's important that we have a modern and adapted ownership, which means that you can also raise credit and borrow to make the investments that are necessary. Then I would like to refer again to the environment at Ås. Now it's not like I'm taking everything that's written out there, for good fish, but you should at least be interested in it when those who know the subject say that this has led to a drying out of the credit, which could have been used for conversion in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e403	It was the representative Lundtigen's posts that provoked me a little bit to go up, because it was based on some quite obvious misunderstandings and also a pretty lively imagination, really. I cannot see where he has it from that I am just talking about ‘full-time use’. There have been long traditions for, and will also shape, Norwegian agriculture in the future, a combination of many different types of use, and in particular part-time employment on use. But that's what I just said, that in order to achieve that, the possibility of alternative employment is important. Statistics clearly show this: the issue of relocation and empty use is very prominent where alternative employment is not possible. In some parts of Northern Ireland, I think 40-45 pst. Farms are empty, precisely because alternative employment is far away. And in order to connect this to the fact that there will be ‘company agriculture’ in Norwegian agriculture, you have to have quite a lively imagination. There is little room for large types of companies in Norwegian agriculture, although there may also be a hole in certain parts of Norwegian agriculture. I don't think you'd be hurting it either if you opened it up, among other things. The AS form, but it's far beyond what we're discussing today. Then Lundtigen says that we have a property definition without obligations and rights. That's exactly the opposite. I believe that the best way to defend the values out there is to make them visible also through transfers, and that this is what ensures that the quality of Norwegian farms is maintained. I can't see how Lundtigen can elevate the odel right to be the best defender of it. Why, then, can we see that very many uses do not change owners until they go to residential care, and that there is very poor quality on very much of the infrastructure on the site? That's precisely because you've had at least half a generation or closer to one generation without any particular investment in lack of clarity, given whether anyone will take over at all? So I dare say that a freer movement of agricultural property would promote the quality and investment will quite strongly in Norwegian agriculture. I think Lundtägen should take over when he stands talking about the self-owning agriculture where one has a connection between operation and ownership, that 40 pst. of Norwegian land area today is leased. Then it is not possible to stand and talk based on a situation that is no longer there. At least you have to take reality into account. And then to the last, where he's talking about interference with property rights and privileges as opposed: I want to say that that's exactly that: when you do interference with property rights, you create privileges. That's the way Tetzschner and I are completely in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e412	In the previous two posts, the Keywords were market values and the drying out of credit opportunities. Here we're in on some of the nucleus. It is said that the parent institution leads to the drying out of credit, which means that one cannot obtain the capital needed for conversion. What's in that statement? Well, what's in that statement is that one today sees that the operational economic capacity of these agricultural properties in debt management is low. If, on the other hand, one got another system in which one could give loans based on what all the interested ones could be willing to pay for the property, then one would certainly get a much larger credit. But the credit that one then will get on those premises is not in proportion to what is the operating return on property. Obviously, today, when skilled farmers bring investment objects to the banks, the banks grant that credit if they see it as an operational basis. What the right here makes up for is to get a system that allows you to get all the values, so that you can also get a larger credit – a credit that can't be served on an operational basis, but that one then has to serve from another source of income. It is the system that one got in Denmark, where the Danes got at such values on their properties, such opportunities to borrow on the properties, that it was totally unrealistic, high loan values in relation to what was the operational basis, which is now part of the cause of the deep economic crisis in which Danish agriculture is. The representative, Gundersen, is talking about us wanting just a little company agriculture, we just want some limited companies. Yes, but by the introduction of the possibility of holding limited liability companies on productive areas, the possibility of giving up obligations relating to ownership lapses. As mentioned above, the Borregaard case has been fully demonstrated under the current legal conditions. So it's talking from the Right that one has to make the values visible through transfers. Yeah, that's some of what we're always discussing. One wants to obtain the large market values that lie in an agricultural property. And that might be interesting in relation to those who have ownership points, while those who are in a user tradition, a farmer tradition -- a farmer bowing, the living-and-dwelling-and-driver-a-yard tradition -- look at the value of what they get out of it. These are completely different values. Any holder who is in a transfer situation is in this dilemma and must place significant emphasis on the user aspect if the next generation is to be able to obtain labour income on the farm that they then acquire. Finally, this with land renting: Still in Norway earlier, and constantly in the future, we will have a large share of land renting. It's a reasonable thing that one in parts of the life phases has rented land. Young people are more expansive than older people. That's why it's natural for older people to lease away to younger people in a dynamic transfer, as we know the system. What is the problem today, however, is that the volume, the volume, the rent, is too high and it's increasing. However, as mentioned, the reason for this lies in the economic situation, which is a separate debate and which remains at the heart of the question of food security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Let's go to case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e445	The proposal discussed by the Committee is, in fact, twofold. The first part concerns the introduction of a semi-icon-institutional form of decision-making. The proposers believe that greater political stability will be of great importance to the individual citizen and to the confidence of the democratic governance system. It's not very hard to agree with. They further write that this again depends on the political capacity and willingness to maintain political decisions without frequent shifts. It is not an unreasonable claim either. Proposalers describe the need for constitutional tools to ensure a certain long-term perspective in some areas and propose a semi-constitutional decision-making category, i.e. an intermediate level between law and basic law. A decision-making procedure involving a majority requirement equal to two-thirds and different time limits to be decided by the Storting itself is proposed. That's where the disagreement comes. Proposals raise questions about the need to introduce new constitutional tools to ensure long-termity and lock policy decisions for a longer period than is currently possible through ordinary majority decisions in the Grand Duchy. The proposers themselves answer this question by promoting a multi-alternative proposal for a new form of decision in the Constitution. In simple terms, the main variant is that the Storting must be able to decide on a two-thirds majority decision on taxation or on a two-thirds majority. Such a form of decision may be used where the decision is to take effect beyond the financial year. So the effect of such a decision is that it can only be modified by a new, equivalent decision by a two-thirds majority. The proposers believe that this will facilitate stability and clarity in policy and the framework conditions for Norwegian business. The majority of the Committee disagrees with the opinions of the proposers, for two main reasons: one general and one specific. The general and principle principle is that we believe that the proposal will have a restrictive effect on the ability of voters to vote for a new aggregate with the policy direction they want every four years. In this we add that it is the voters themselves who are to decide to what extent political decisions are to be continued until the next majority period. The main lines of Norwegian policy are in long-term ideological lines that change society in the long term, not necessarily in individual cases. The stability of long-term solutions is important, but it is the political will of the Biggest and the individual politicians that at all times constitute the national assembly's political will and ability to give equal or different priority, which is to ensure stability and predictability in policy-making processes, not the form of decision-making. Responsibility and ability to think in the long term are political qualities and should be treated as political qualities. The voters shall have the opportunity to vote in the direction or direction they wish. The majority of the Committee also considers that the proposal does not specify the types of subject matter the proposed scheme will address. If it is so that we can ‘lift’ some cases up to this level, there may be a long-term issue of importance. If tax policy is raised there, the next round can be followed by the school effort there, the environmental effort, the employment rate, etc. All matters must have the same political weight in this room, and it cannot be that they must be raised to the proposed level in order to be identified as important enough. The special consideration that I would like to make, which is based on this specific proposal, is that the majority of the Committee believes that the justification given by the proposers can have unintentioned negative effects on business, not necessarily positive, as they are prejudiced. The economy itself shall be adaptive and dynamic. It's in its nature. We believe that this proposal can provide a basis for false stability that is not in the economic sphere. I would also like to point out that it is difficult to see that the long-term nature of the proposers will be achieved by making it difficult to change a type of decision, primarily a decision not addressed to the private sector, but which is authorisation for the use of funds addressed to the government. The majority of the Committee has chosen to reject this proposal, with all the corresponding options. The Committee's minority, SV and the Central Party, believe that the Stortinget should consider a reform, but that such a constitutional change as is addressed here should be better and more comprehensively investigated. I suppose they themselves want to present their position, but I still want to attach some considerations to it. The SV and the Central Party oppose the proposal, but they ask the Presidentship of the Stortinge to set up a selection to discuss all relevant aspects of any fundamental legislative instrument of a semi-icon-institutional decision-making. The majority of the Committee considers that a semi-colonial form of decision, as outlined in the proposal, will not be the best and we do not feel the need for an investigation. I recall that the Stortinget rejected binding long-term budgeting in the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 6 for 2003–2004, based on NOO 2003:6 as late as December 2003. The majority consider that the rules applicable to the budgetary procedure of the Storting are designed for the purpose of sound and complete balancing, even if they are not binding beyond the financial year. The majority do not believe that the introduction of the forms of decision outlined in the proposal is in line with the present proposal, or the examination thereof, can ensure that the needs of the proposers themselves underline the importance of it. The second part of the proposal concerns the regulation of the legal effects of the Grand Duchy’s request and investigation decisions. With this in mind, the proposers wish to clarify that the so-called request and investigation decisions contain precisely requests, recommendations or resolutions. Consequently, it will be clarified that the decisions are not legally binding and thus do not affect the legal framework for industrial activities. A similar proposal was rejected, against the votes of the Progress Party, on 10 January 2008. In the context of the consideration of the corresponding draft Constitution in 2008, the Committee expressed its reasons for not accepting the proposal as follows: ‘The majority cannot see the need for clarification which the proposer considers necessary. Understanding that Storting's requests, etc. to the extent that the government does not have binding legal effects, is, in the opinion of the majority, not disputed today.’.» The majority of the Committee has not changed its view on this and therefore does not vote in favour of that proposal this time either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e482	The basic law is that a single aggregate cannot take decisions that are binding on a subsequent increase. The exception from this point of view is, of course, the bonds deriving from the Constitution. In addition, there will be a number of realities that will actually seem binding from one majority to a later one. Most parties see the need for the framework conditions for business to be as stable as possible in order to stimulate investment and business activity in Norway. In this area, the Committee is unanimous. It is also true, as it is said, that to some extent a stable political climate could help to ensure that business policy can be reasonably stable. But there may be a number of other political situations where this is not the case, and how, for example. a minority government will depend on coming to the Storting and negotiating solutions. In this way, pressure on the business environment may increase, for example: in order to find funding for the priorities of the parties involved in the negotiations, e.g.: Norwegian business experience an increasing competition from foreign business, which often has better framework conditions than Norwegian business – it is through investment aid schemes, tax exemption schemes, the allocation of research funds or a number of other conditions. In such a situation, there may be a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and for Norway if a distinction can be made that there will be no significant change over time in certain parts of the framework conditions for business. I understand the authors of the proposals so that they basically agree with the basic rule of the Constitution that a enlargement should not bind one later, but that, in some specific cases, where there is broad political support for it, it may be desirable to take decisions of a more lasting nature. In that case, there will be a kind of legalisation of political agreements. Political agreements may, of course, appear as a kind of alternative to the Constitutional proposal for a new semi-icon-institutional form of decision-making. This is done in other countries with some success, for example in Sweden. in the field of research. By adopting research plans that go beyond the term of the election and that, by political agreement, bind the parties to the agreement, the framework conditions for research, both the framework conditions and the level of funding, appear to be relatively stable. It may continue as long as all the lots honor the agreement. Constitutional proposals mean that a rise in specific cases may entail a subsequent increase by taking decisions by a two-thirds majority. It is the same majority that is required to amend the Constitution, but with a much simpler process that makes the choice of methods more operational. The reduction is free to determine the duration of the decision. This is not what the rapporteur said, until a new decision is taken. This could be done, for example, by: shall be adopted for two years, three years, four years or five years, or at any time. At the same time, however, it is in this context that an equivalent majority should be able at any time to repeal the decision taken by the previous enlargement. So this is not a generally simple process, but it is in the cases where this room by a two-thirds majority means that it is important that completely specific parts of the framework conditions should be stable over time. There won't be any normal procedure, like that. I am very pleased with the signals coming from the Central Party and the Socialist Left that they have a lot to do with this idea, and that they will consider such an arrangement if the consequences of it are investigated. Of course, we will subsidiaryly support any initiative to address this issue. This Constitutional Bill also contains a proposal to legislate what I consider to be the Grand Duchy's right of instruction. The law of the Grand Duchy has evolved over time and is today considered to be the constitutional custom of most constitutional lawyers. It has been common to consider the right of instruction curtailed in the area of the prerogatives, but there is an ongoing debate on the position of the different prerogatives in Norwegian constitutional law, which we will also come back to in a later case today. As I understand it, the proposers will legislate on the right of instruction that today follows from constitutional practice, and thus will not change the legal status. The purpose of the proposal is to bring the text of the Constitution into line with the actual legal situation. If the proposal option B.4 is not adopted today, it will not change the legal status either, and the law of instruction of the Grand Duchy will continue to emerge with the same force as it is today. On this basis, I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e505	The representative of Anders Anundsen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e508	It is easy to agree with the motivation for the proposal, namely that there is a need for clarity and predictability in policy. But there also stops the consensus. As at the previous reading, I think the proposers are meeting the objective of ensuring stability poorly. I just want to stress the following: The two main objections to this are that it is contrary to the need for freedom of control, adaptation to economic conditions, and in a given situation it may also conflict with the population population. We can turn to the tiles and say to the last post that it can be thought that a large number of people in a period, and not just a mere majority, but a larger majority, is to bind a decision that you can see lost in elections. So they're like... currently considers that there is a need to improve the business environment in Norway, is prevented from doing so in the next period due to a semi-constitutional decision contrary to election results. I do not think that will contribute to any understanding of either politics or democracy. So it's a balance of this. At the same time, there is a need for batches to sometimes see that there is a need for an agreement that lasts longer than a period – but then on the basis of the fact that the nature of the case is such that it requires predictability. I'll do a couple of examples. When the Storting faced the question of reforming our church system, everyone replied that the historical tradition of the church system had, there was great care, and that a new system could last a long time. That is why, after long negotiations, it was actually possible to reach agreement on a new church arrangement, which is a health sign of our political system. A new pension reform has recently entered into force, which is the result of a long-term investigation process in which all interests have been involved, to say the least, after a Norwegian and perhaps also Nordic model. But our model of NOU, investigations, hearings and political processes are time-consuming, but it ensures that many get involved. It ensures more than a mere majority, and all political parties that have been close to the government position, not to say have been in government position, have also seen the need to ensure a wider majority than there is at any time the majority of the population behind a pension reform, because it should last over time, and because citizens need predictability and long-termity with regard to such important things as pensions. Therefore, that predictability is also ensured. You could say that there are still a few aspects of the reform that may not be the same in the long term, but at least it is not due to party political resistance. I have to be allowed to say that. The party that is now behind the proposal, the Progress Party, has paradoxically been the least interested in participating in this type of broad settlement. I could do other examples. Tax questions also need a certain degree of predictability, and we've had two tax reforms in the period I've been sitting on the Storting. The first was at the beginning of the 1990s. It was secured by a broadest possible majority. The proposer was also not present in this majority at the time, but later joined. We had a reform prepared by the Bondevik II government, which entered into force in 2006, with a wider majority than a simple majority. The proposer was not present at the time, but was present, and has never later presented an alternative to the tax reform. Now I am not talking about tax rates and certain types of tax, but about the system of dividend taxation, exemption model, shielding model, etc., which is the main elements of the reform. It is important for business that this type of decision is long-term, but it is therefore not possible to ensure a long-term perspective through semi-constitutional decisions that there is no political will to hold. The system then runs counter to a political will, and that is the political will for long-termity on which the parties must be judged. The concept of a framework for business has been largely linked to decisions on rates and tax forms in the debate, but it is somewhat more than that. The economy also requires the general economic policy to be adapted to the current economic situation at all times. So if there's a crisis, it could be that either you have to lower taxes or you have to raise taxes. It depends on the nature of the crisis. But if you have committed yourself to not doing so by means of semi-institutional decisions, you are not able to face a crisis. In a global economy, we know that crises can often come faster and less predictable than we were used to in the old, more closed economy. Therefore, semi-constitutional decisions will also in many ways prevent governments from meeting realities in the economy in a way that provides a good framework for business. Framework conditions are, as I said, something more than tax decisions. The members of the SV and the Senterpartie have a note at the end, which I wonder a little about. It reminds me a little bit about the free-riding exercise rate without any hope, or maybe the run-off at no rate, because here it is said that the proposal for semi-constitutional decisions is not supported in any form. However, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy is asked to set up a selection to discuss all relevant aspects of the possible constitutionalisation of a semi-colonial form of decision-making. They say "possible." One of the parties is represented in the presidency and has never proposed any such investigation, nor is it suggested in the vote. It would have been possible if you meant it. And to make it totally confusing, these two parties finally say in the setting that they mean that: ‘introduction of a semi-icon-institutional decision-making procedure in which case a codification of established practices on the Storting may mean’. If you say that's essentially how it works today, and if it's political will for it, that's a huge majority, what in the world is the point of having a sample to figure out what's already working? It seems to me to be a strange appearance of wanting to mean a little, but not taking the step fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e530	Of course, SV and the Centerpartie will regret if we create confusion with such an experienced representative as Per-Kristian Foss, but if he had presented this as a proposal, it would have been voted down. Now the presidency has the opportunity to back up that proposal. Once the Swedes have introduced this, among others. on the research page, shouldn't it be possible for the presidency here also to discuss that issue by setting up a selection, as proposed by the SV and the Central Party, with state lawyers, with politicians, to discuss the issue, get wiser and less confused, and then come back to the Stortinget if one thinks that this is a bad solution, or a good solution? What we're looking for is just formalizing e.g. such settlements as Per-Kristian Foss talks about. In this image, the Progress Party appears very strange. They're not part of it -- it's mostly for all of us. So they're unpredictable in relation to the large number. We can refer to the climate agreement, we can refer to the predatory thing, we can refer to the private school agreement, we can refer to the pension agreement – that is, the stability expression that we see politically at the Progress Party, is almost non-existent. And we go back to history when the Progress Party was going to negotiate with Per-Kristian Foss, for example. on the budget, it was quite confusing when it was crazy to know what the Progress Party really wanted. It was a lot of hello and a lot of trouble. I fully understand that in such a situation the Progress Party should discipline itself and would be disciplined by its own proposal if it were agreed. But when an e.g. in the draft Decision VI of the 2005 budget negotiations suggested that one look at reducing sugar confectionery and chocolate fees in order to compete with Sweden, while one proposed in the proposal for Decision X that one should have a national action plan for diabetes, understands the stability of the Progress Party in these issues. So here I think that the only thing that, to say the least humorous, can secure the stability that the Progress Party is after is a multi-stakeholder government. So then it's just to go out and encourage the voters to vote for a red-green plural government, so that we can maintain the stability that business today says they have – at least two out of three in business say they have no bad competitiveness with the framework they have today. So that's maybe the best advice for the Progress Party. Let me conclude by saying that I did not think that one should take as lightly on this proposal for distribution as the Centre Party and SV do. It is possible for the Presidency to make an assessment of this. It is possible to look at Sweden, talk a little about the presidency in Sweden, and get more knowledge about the issue to see if it is relevant for Norway to have a level between law and law – including in the Norwegian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e539	I have to say that Mr Langeland's contribution surprised me very much, and I do not think it really belongs in a debate on a serious and well-thought-out constitutional proposal which even the Socialist Left believes has a lot to do with, and from which they will investigate the consequences. I do not know whether it is permissible to say pointless, but at least it is pointless when the representative Langeland refers to some sort of political upheaval on the part of the Progress Party when we have maintained our policy in important areas and therefore have not entered into some of the similarities to which the representative of Langeland referred. So we've maintained what we've said to the voters that we mean, and then to claim that it should be an expression of some kind of instability, at least it has to be a serious misunderstanding. The proposal is that one should be able to find broad compromises. The Progress Party has been involved in several broad settlements, e.g.: The church agreement, which the representative Foss gave as an example of a good and broad cooperation in this room. So the proposal is that you should be able to make this kind of broad and good deal of compromise and be able to keep it over time. And then, when there is such a proposal for treatment, to be accused of wanting to promote instability and arbitrariness, simply doesn't belong at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e548	The party of progress should welcome the fact that the SV points to the policy they are pursuing and to the instability they are showing in the will to be part of the political compromise. So SV, which has been in opposition for 30 years, has a completely different will than the Progress Party to join in making broad comparisons to create the predictability that industry and others want in the climate, in the pension area, in the predatory area – a range of areas. So the Progress Party is going to cancel out. It's just to establish the facts. Then it is that the reality of the proposal from the Progress Party is, as Per-Christian Foss pointed out, bad, because the consequence is not just undemocratic, but the point is that one has to show action here and now. Look at the way the financial crisis was handled by this government! It would not be possible if the Constitutional Law of the Progress Party had been adopted. We had a government that showed action there and then. If there had been a premise for how fiscal policy should be conducted, as the Progress Party is trying to achieve, one would not have had that flexibility to deal with the financial crisis in the best way in Europe. That's the kind of thing the Progress Party has to take over. It sounds as if the proposal has a good intention, but at the same time the proposal also says that today's industrial policy is not good enough. That is probably the main point of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e557	I'm not going to interfere in the discussion between SV and the Progress Party about who has been involved in most reforms. I just have to remind SV and not least the representative Langeland, who has a long seagoing service on Stortinget, that SV has been outside two broad tax settlements, but has been dragged into both of them at the same time – afterwards. But they were never there when it happened, they just followed in the pulley afterwards. But then to the question of the presidency needs a trip to Sweden to know what's going on there. I'm just paying attention to what's in the setting, namely that there's been a fairly broad investigation in the past of both long-term budgeting and various forms of semi-constitutional decisions. Then the situation was studied both in Sweden and in other neighbouring countries. It is true that Sweden has a system of long-term budgeting, but how it works in practice, I have to say that it is more similar to our national transport plans, which are, of course, good plans, but which require the will to grant as much every year as promised to roads, regardless of economic activity and political will – I would have said. It was a unanimous selection under the leadership of the then representative Gudmund Restad who concluded that there was nothing good to find in the Swedish system. It is true that the Swedish have reached more in research than Norway. This is because they have both had a political ambition to do so, and that they have an industry that pushes on to get it, because they have an industry with a higher research share than you have in other Nordic countries. But to believe that there are semi-constitutional decisions that have led to it is an excessive belief in laws and systems that I almost didn't think SV was supposed to be exponent for, at least it wasn't like that when I entered the Storting that it was socialism – but we get to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e564	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e567	I just want to say to Langeland that there's a difference between being excited and being engaged. Now it's a prerequisite for being able to be involved in a settlement that you're invited to. As you know, the Progress Party was not invited to the climate agreement. It's hard to become part of a settlement you're not invited to. But I think the representative of Langeland went quite far in believing that this proposal was very bad. It is therefore a little strange to read in the Minutes that they, together with the Centre Party, believe that this proposal is so good that it should be examined in more detail. I don't quite understand what the SV's actual position is, but it may not be of such great importance either. I think it's quite special when Langeland uses the financial crisis as an example. The financial crisis package was adopted unanimously in this house. So it wasn't the government parties that showed an extraordinary and amazing insight and implementation force to achieve this. There were all the parties in this room, in addition to some of us having some additional suggestions. With regard to SV's willingness to find a compromise, the Progress Party should also show itself from its best side in 2013, but not eliminate our own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e577	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e580	I expect Anundsen and the Progress Party to know their own proposal. It is not just that there is one proposal that has been put forward. There are several suggestions. The proposal that I linked to the financial crisis relates to the two-thirds proposal, which could have prevented the red-green government from taking swift, good action to deal with the financial crisis. So the second thing is that we want to figure out something between a law and a constitution. I have said that here, and there is no reason not to understand the difference in the proposals of the Progress Party in this area and in the two-thirds area. I have read the proposal for the Progress Party – and they should do the same for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e587	No more people have asked for the word on case 1. [[Fotation, see page 2053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e603	First of all, a few comments on the debate we have had and the comprehensive draft constitutions that we are discussing. I believe that if you look at proposals and opinions, you will also see a different approach to the Constitution as such. I belong to a relatively constitutional conservative party, and if all of these proposals were adopted, we would have faced a relatively strong revision of the Norwegian Constitution. I still want to say that I confess to the way we have changed the Constitution, that is, a little more peacefully, also through a change of practice that may not have been entirely in line with what was originally stated in the Constitution. In the Constitutional tradition we have had in Norway, I think it is a practice that has ultimately been good. That is what I say with the background that there have been representatives who have wanted a very fundamental review of our entire constitution towards the anniversary that will not be long. This matter concerns the abolition of the so-called prerogatives, i.e. to deprive the King of power through instructions to the government, that the Storting could intervene in this way. Traditionally, the prorogatives have imposed restrictions on the right of instructions of the Storting, and there has been a broad consensus that the Storting could not take decisions in the areas of the prarogatives, which are legally binding on the Government. However, this has not prevented Stortinget from expressing its opinion on matters falling within the government's jurisdiction, but it has been more cautious. Nor, of course, does it prevent a majority, if it is dissatisfied with what a government is doing in the areas of the prerogatives, from being fully entitled to make sure that it has to go off. The present draft constitution means the repeal of the Basic Law paragraphs dealing with the royal prerogatives, in which the King in this context is the King of the Council of State. So the proposal does not include the King's personal prerogatives. The Committee has noted that the proposers believe that the provisions are no longer in line with parliamentary practice and therefore want to create a debate on the role of the prerogatives today and on the balance of power between the Storing and the Government. And regardless of views on the prorogatives and what position they might have in the Constitution, I would actually recommend that the attitude be read from the minority as well, because it provides an interesting review of both the theory and the legislator's view of this and the developments that have taken place in the field, and what both professors and magnification have said in different contexts regarding the role of the prorogatives. I do not really believe that there is such a disagreement as to what role they play in the practical, parliamentary life. The question is whether it should be expressed in the form of the Constitution as it has done, to this day, also in the future. As I said, the prorogatives have not prevented a practical division of labour between corruption and government. It operates under both majority and minority governments. However, the provisions help to mark the government's responsibility for its specific responsibilities, and thus also the government's responsibility towards the Stortinget, as part of what can be called a parliamentary governance chain. The majority do not want to liquidate the prerogatives in the form of constitutions. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, there is a proposal on paragraphs of the Basic Law which have been proposed as a result of – and that is what we have had for debate before today – a wide-ranging agreement in the United Kingdom on the relationship between the Norwegian Church and the State. Any decision concerning the Basic Law §12, 21 and 22 would then prejudge the amendments concerning this State–Church settlement and make it difficult to implement the settlement. The Committee also points out that the repeal of the first paragraph of Section 12 would prevent the adoption of amendments promoted in relation to the right of dissolution and investment. This has also been noted by the proposers. We in the majority – the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV – point out that when dealing with the position of the Frøiland Committee on the control functions of the Storting, a wish was expressed to limit the use of instructions from the Storing to the government to ensure exactly what was wanted: clean governance and accountability. This wish, I would say, has been followed up in practice even under minority governments. Distinguishing the prerogatives could give the impression that you want the opposite. The majority would also point out that the first paragraph of Section 12 of the Basic Law expresses important formal responsibilities relating to the appointment of a new government, which should not be deleted from the Basic Law. The third paragraph of the paragraph also deals with matters which should be the responsibility of the government. Nor can the majority see that it would be appropriate to repeal the provision that it is the King of the Council of State who has the power to pardon offenders. Today’s constitutional provision helps to give rise to the relationship between state powers, which, in the view of the majority, have proved to be functioning in a good and appropriate way. That is also why the proposal has not received the necessary majority. I would like to recommend the setting with this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e626	I agree with the rapporteur's presentation of the majority position and the reason he gave. It is true that the proposers say that it is necessary to clear up the provisions of the Basic Law on prerogatives – therefore these proposals come, as is the case in the Constitutional proposal. However, what is at stake, as the rapporteur also very carefully explained in his statement, is the question of the balance of power between big business and government. In other words, this is a very fundamental question — the issue of the organisation of Norwegian national practices. Now, as it emerges from the setting, it's very clear that this is not being adopted. It is not in agreement with the proposal – nor is it from the party that is essentially behind the proposal itself. It is said that it will be necessary in the future to go through this thoroughly, in terms of the relationship between government and expansion, and the balance of power between the two powers. And you can connect to that. But the proposal now before us is not a proposal that can provide an actual basis for such a discussion. It is also part of the background to the position of the majority parties in the case itself. It is true in practice that the Storting has, to a number of extent today, influenced how the government should exercise its powers, because the provisions are reinterpreted in the pact with the development of the parliamentary system. And it has not been a barrier to a practical division of labour between big business and government, both under a majority government and a minority government. In other words, there is no real reason to ask for change in these areas either, because practice is such that the distribution of power works well as it is, where it is handled – in practical parliamentary development – in a sensible way by all representatives and all parties in the Stortinget. It is a principle aspect of this matter that I have noticed that the case rapporteur did not take up, and that is why I want to take the opportunity to emphasise, and that is that the system of prorogatives is such that it marks the responsibility of the government. It is the responsibility of the government, and it is assigned that power also in practice in many areas, as this system is. I think we should be careful to move on that very principle, because this is the basis for the Storting to put the members of the government and the government as such in charge of what they are actually doing in these areas. If these areas were to be weakened, and there were uncertainties in the Basic Law relating to who has the actual power, it is clear that then the Storting would also have a more concrete responsibility, and the distribution of responsibilities and the systems of power could easily become more unclear than they are, according to the letter of the law and the practices of the parliamentary culture that we have in Norway today. It is therefore important that this may prevent the government and the constitutionally responsible state councils from being released from liability. We cannot wish that, we believe that the practice we have today is a very good practice. That is the way it is, and it may be partly – I am not quite sure – after the proposal was put forward, that if we adopt it as it stands, and so we do not, it will create difficulties for the implementation of the church settlement, and it would also create difficulties in the possible introduction of the right of dissolution and investment. It is possible that the proposal was put forward before that discussion was very updated – I am just adding it – but that is at least a reasonable argument for not adopting the proposal that lies there, and here too I refer to the statements made by the rapporteur. The case rapporteur addressed the most important completely concrete proposals, and I am not repeating them. That is not necessary, and it is very clear from the vote that the majority also believes in this area. I just want to take up one area that he didn't pick up, and it's linked to the King's and Government's right to mobilization and to wage a war. In this area, SV has a comment that I respect, because it is quite clear that it is necessary, in today's system, that the Stortinge discuss these questions, and that is what is happening in practice. It is absolutely necessary, I stress it, but at the same time I would like to say that it is that it will be necessary to have a constitutional provision, as it stands today, which will enable the government to operate in a possible crisis situation, without the Storting being united. There is an actual argument that the majority have in this area, and that I would like to highlight in this debate. I would also like to say that there is one area in which there is a very clear and good case law, and that is the right of pardon. So that right is in the hands of the King in the Council of States, as provided for by the Constitution today. Extinguishing it could create uncertainty about the relationship between the different constitutional powers, if it is that the right is not clearly placed as it is. Therefore, it will also be of concern to repeal it, especially in the light of the good practice we have had in Norway over many, many decades and resulting from the provisions of the Basic Law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e643	Prerogative in the sense of constitutional law means, in a simplified way, a first right or a special right to rule or to take decisions. Of course, the prerogatives of our constitution stem from pre-parliamentary times, and were based on a completely different governance system together with a completely different power relationship between the state powers than is the case today. The starting point of the 1814 Constitutional Act was that the King drew his competence directly from the Constitution as an independent foundation of power. He chose his own advice, and he was also assigned quite specific areas where his provision would be final. It is these provisions that have been challenged in recent constitutional times, especially in the light of the right of instruction as constitutional custom and the introduction of parliamentaryism. In traditional legal doctrine, the prerogatives have been viewed as a barrier to the right of instructions of the Storting. This implies that decisions taken by the Stortinget in the area of the prerogatives will not be constitutionally binding on the government or its state councils. This is a sensible system when the exercise of power draws its basis of power directly from the Constitution. The question, however, is whether this restriction is equally relevant in a situation where the political power of the Storting has strengthened significantly at the expense of executive power through parliamentaryism. In the opinion of the majority of the Committee: ‘The prerogatives contribute to the orderly governance and responsibilities of magnification and government and enable the Storting to hold government and government accountable and to test their actions’. It must be due to some sort of misunderstanding, I think. For the whole point of the prerogatives as they appear today, it is to prevent the incorporation of the Storting into the territory of the prarogants and to exempt government and state councils from constitutional liability in respect of the follow-up to the decision-making process in these specific areas. It is only after the introduction of parliamentaryism that one can use political instruments against a government and state councils acting contrary to the will of the Storting, even in the territory of the prerogatives. So one can be responsible for politics, but is deprived of the possibility of legal or constitutional accountability. The responsibility, some of which have been involved here, between accumulation and government, is not governed by the prerogatives. They are clarified in the Basic Law § 3, where the government is to be the executive, and § 75, where the tasks of the Storting are reproduced. Thus, the question of the prerogatives is not, as the committee's majority later to believe, about a favourable distribution of responsibilities between accumulation and government, but whether, in today's constitutional situation, it is necessary to maintain specific constitutional provisions which deter the Storting from the possibility of taking constitutionally binding instructions in specific areas. These are the rapporteurs who have called for debate on this and, as the rapporteurs have also said, it is not possible to deal with all the prerogatives at one time. But there is good reason to put these issues into practice if one is concerned that the Constitution should actually reflect the real political will and the actual constitutional situation. This would mean that, in some areas, one would find that the prerogatives are appropriate to maintain, precisely in order to restore power and reinvigorate them, while in other areas it would be natural to remove the special rights. There is, of course, the background to the desire to review the prorogations to be maintained with impunity for government and executive power if they do not comply with the requirements of the Storting and which are constitutional anachronisms without real content. One is, of course, not cut off from following constitutional government councils or governments to the extent that this would be necessary in the event of breaches of the Liability Act other than the failure to follow the decision of the Storting on the territory of the prarogants. Then certainly someone would say that such a debate is wasted, firstly because there are so few who are interested in it, secondly because it will in any case be the Storting itself who decide this matter whether or not it should arise a concrete case that updates constitutional responsibility in the territory of the prarogates as a result of the failure to comply with the decision of the Stortinge, and thirdly because the constitutional responsibility is essentially replaced by parliamentary responsibility, and there is, of course, no limitation in the power of the Stortinge. All these arguments are relevant and may be weighted. But if one is concerned with the power relationship between collapse and government, it will be impossible to get past the problem of the prerogatives as a limit to the right of instruction. We believe that it still seems appropriate to discuss that issue further. However, in view of the fact that other constitutional proposals have been put forward, which have also been mentioned earlier, such as: As a result of the historical church agreement, on which I myself participated in the negotiations, which has been concluded between all parties on the Stortinget, it appears most naturally not to be in favour of changes in the territory of the prarogatives during today's treatment. However, I would like to stress that it may be appropriate to look at this issue in a new draft constitution after the Constitution has been amended in those areas which now appear to be in a position to collide with proposals presented in Document No. 12:9 for 2007-2008. In addition to this, I would like to recommend the comments of the Advance Party in the vote – as the rapporteur did, to say the least, he did well with more than the comments of the Advance Party, but nevertheless – as an evening play for those who have not already read them carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e670	Proposals put forward by Anders Anundsen, Chairman of the Control and Constitutional Committee, recently said that it is impossible to deal with all the prerogatives together. But at the same time he has made a proposal that the Storting should do it. It seems like something strange, to say it carefully. It is also relatively unusual to recommend your own party to read the notes. Often it is recommended to support a proposal, but in this case there is no proposal to support the proposal that has been promoted. The proposal was promoted by Anders Anundsen, Bård Hoksrud, Carl I. Hagen and Lodve Solholm, all from the Progress Party, and the Progress Party opposes the proposals. There is a relatively strange debate, whether or not I should say so, especially taking into account the fact that these are constitutional proposals. The Committee is unanimous in its view that the prerogatives ‘have not prevented a practical division of labour between the Grand Duchy and the Government’. So, in other words, you are satisfied with the situation that is, and at the same time you are promoting proposals to change it – on the part of the Progress Party. It also appears to be a somewhat unusual method of work. So the Progress Party has written a rather long setting that, without saying anything wrong about legal students, appears to be an interesting task in legal studies, but a somewhat strange construction in a big deal, if I may say so. It therefore concludes by voting against the proposals that you yourself are making, but it is justified that there is an interest in a debate on this. But that closes the eyes that the Storting is in fact constantly discussing the power relationship and the balance of power between magnification and government. I just point out that in the setting it is actually explained historically how the Storting has taken care of these power relationships, case by case, concluded and had an opinion. The Progress Party has also taken part in that process in a constructive way. So there's no reason to say that this is something the Storting won't discuss or have not discussed. It's for ongoing discussion, and there's been a decision on it. Finally, I just want to say that the SV's remark at the end of the vote, on paragraph 26 of the Constitution, also appears as a kind of historical mark that you're still concerned with war and peace and that, to say the least, a little untimely. The conclusion is that it is basically satisfied with the situation as it is, and practice as it is today, that the provision stands, but that there are, of course, practices in which there are broad discussions between corruption and government on issues relating to Norwegian participation in war and war-like situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e679	To clarify the comment from Per-Kristian Foss: It was such that SV wanted to propose to amend Section 26, but we were told that we did not get permission because it had to be related to the Progress Party's proposals. That's why I'm surprised, and also SV, that the Progress Party has not taken up proposals today at all. What SV has written a principle note about, applies to § 26, that the government is not, in fact, obliged to inform the Storting about the possibility and the right to summon troops and participate in so-called defence wars. That's the starting point for our remark, and it's on a principle basis. Now it is the case that the Secretary of Defense and the Red-Green Government have had a hold which means that in practice one has been here and orientated, both on Afghanistan and other things. Last night, the Minister of Defence said that she wanted more openness about the situation in Afghanistan and about the military and defence in general. So this is a good thing in practice, but the problem is that the government can not formally inform and debate with the Storting, and then one doesn't get the openness and the principle approach that SV wanted in this case. The practice that is being followed today is SV satisfied with. It's not like Kolberg's, that we want to take away from the government's operation. On the contrary, we just want to state that on issues like this there must be an open and democratic debate in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e690	First, it may seem that I was injured to ask the representatives of the Progress Party to read the comments of the Progress Party. Of course, that was not the intention. The purpose was to get the others to read the comments of the Advance Party on the bedside, preferably tonight, if they haven't already done so. I am a little surprised that the representative Foss believes that this is a proposal that is strange and does not belong in a big deal. I totally disagree. The proposal incorporates a number of constitutional proposals that have intended to put the Basic Law letter in line with the actual constitutional situation. It is the starting point for the proposers in this context. It happened, for example. in the context of the Kosmo-led selection, where parliamentaryism was introduced in the Constitution. There was no doubt that we had parliamentaryism in Norway, but it was not introduced in the Basic Law until the last enlargement period. The same applies to disclosure obligations. There was no doubt that the obligation to disclose information was a constitutional provision, but to bring the constitutional writing, that is to say the Constitution, in accordance with the actual constitutional situation, it was introduced into the Constitution. And that's why the proposers wanted a debate on these issues: to see if it's possible to concentrate on which of these prorogatives we want to have power as prorogatives, and who no longer deserve that status in the Constitution. I am absolutely convinced that there will be a discussion that this house will also come back to, and in various contexts will be discussed. It is true that when the situation has become such that proposals in this draft constitution may result in major, broad political settlements being made difficult, the Progress Party has therefore come to the conclusion that they do not want to address these proposals. I believe you deserve praise for being neat in such a situation, rather than criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e699	I just want to say for the record that I do not want it sitting on me that I should have said that Constitutional proposals do not belong in the National Assembly. I have never said that and never meant that, but when I have allowed myself to characterize the proposal as strange, it is because the representative Anundsen himself said that it is impossible to treat all the prorogatives together, that is, everything from declaring war to pardoning and appointing government. At the same time, he has promoted them together, in a way. So I agree with the last thing the representative said, that it is not possible to deal with them together – neither has the Storting done before – but I disagree with what the representative has done, namely, to promote them all together. At the same time, of course, it seems strange that a proposal promoted by representatives of one party does not receive the support of these parties either. Now it is not illegal to change, and it is not at all the case that a condition for voting in favour of a constitutional proposal is almost said to be adopted. I have also been involved in promoting constitutional proposals in the past that have been voted down – also with the participation of representatives from my own party. But let me say it like this: there's hope that what's a minority can become a majority. So saying that you don't support it because it doesn't get majority, I think in itself is a relatively bad reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e704	The last part of the word change made me want to consider it. I agree with what Mr Anundsen says about the need for thorough discussions in the Norwegian Parliament on the Constitution and the relationship between state powers. Without any reduction for anyone – for I have been part of this before – it is that if we are to have those debates, we must have constitutional proposals that have been worked out more thoroughly in advance than what is traditional and Norwegian. When a party or some representatives come together relatively randomly and promote a proposal, it is handled seriously by the Committee and the plenary Storting. But it's often of such a nature that it's taken out of context, so it's actually not possible to get it adopted. So this means that things that should perhaps have changed and perhaps should be discussed in a much more thorough way, do not come to debate here in a proper way. This is, as the Storting understands, just a consideration, because I've experienced this. And the example we have here is very clear -- that is, a number of proposals that no one can put behind, although, of course, there are many fundamental aspects of this, and some of these proposals are of such a nature that they might have deserved a different treatment and debate. But because it is promoted in the way it is done, it is not possible for plenary to deal with it, because everything has to be handled together, as the proposal has been put forward. There are several other examples of this. With regard to proposals we have to deal with during this enlargement period, it is likely that – with the exception of the state – the church settlement and its follow-up – will end up with nothing being adopted. This is a consideration I want to include, because as I said, it is true that there are many good things that are in the minority's comments on this matter. And it is quite clear that the Progress Party has had an intention of doing this which is, in itself, commendable, but the proposals cannot be adopted in the way that they lie as a single proposal. It's a problem, and maybe we should get together and discuss it. The presidency may also have a role here. How this is going to be done in this case, I'm not going to say from the Stockholm pulpit right now. But I feel some frustration at this point, and that's why I'm saying what I'm now saying from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e715	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e718	Let me first say that I essentially share the considerations expressed by the representative Kolberg from the pulpit now. But I do not know if I am the one who is unclear, or if perhaps the representative Foss willfully misunderstand. I did not quote him that the Constitutional Law did not belong in the Chamber, but that this kind of proposal – which was the characteristic he used in his post – did not belong here. I fundamentally disagree with that. It is also wrong when the representative Foss believes that we are not promoting these proposals because we are afraid that they will be downgraded. The representative cannot then have followed closely in what I have said. The reason why we do not want to promote these proposals is that, by being adopted, they would be in conflict with proposals that the Progress Party will support later on. And we are so tidy that we will support the proposal that is in line with the broad compromise in the Storting, and therefore will not be in favour of proposals that could help to make that implementation difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e744	In the draft Constitutional Act in Document No. 12:23 for 2007-2008, it is proposed to increase the barrier limit for participation in the distribution of so-called balancing mandates from 4 to 5 pst. The proposal is inter alia: justified by the fact that today's barrier limit can give small batches far greater power, influence and meaning than the election break-up would indicate. On 10 May 1988, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg decided to amend the electoral system in the event of major elections. The central element of the Decision was an increase in the number of mandates from 157 to 165 by the introduction of eight balancing mandates. At the same time, a lot had to achieve at least 4 pst. on a country-by-country basis to be taken into account in the allocation of balancing mandates. In the spring of 2003, the government re-adopted changes in the electoral system, with the main features of 150 district mandates and 19 balancing mandates, keeping the 4 pst barrier. in order to receive equalisation mandates. The Workers' Party, Right and Advance Party then stood behind a barrier limit of 4 p.m., while the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed a barrier limit of 3 p.m. The Central Party and the Left, which at the time were not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, supported, after what I experienced, also a barrier limit of 3 pst. A lock limit of 4 pst. In order to participate in the distribution of balancing mandates, six major elections have worked to date – the first four elections for the calculation of eight mandates, which were free and not tied to any state, and the last two elections for the allocation of 19 mandates, one to each state. Draft Constitutional Law, Document No. 12:23 in 2007–08, was sent to the Swedish Research Unit asking for an assessment of the consequences of an increase in the barrier limit in the last major elections, and of the arrangements in the countries with which we normally compare. The investigation, which is attached to the suspension, shows that any increase in the barrier limit would only have a bearing on the 1997 collapse elections, where the Left would lose four balancing mandates at a cut-off limit of 5 pst. If this mattered to the creation of the Bondevik I government, we can only wonder in today's day. It is an important principle that all voting citizens in the country must have voting rights of equal value and importance in relation to the composition of the Storing. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has concluded that this draft constitution does not contribute to such a development, as the risk of multiple votes not being taken into account in the calculation of balancing mandates increases. The Committee therefore proposes unanimously that the proposal be rejected. To this end, the unanimous vote of the Committee shall be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e759	It is very good that there is a completely unanimous attitude in this matter. I agree with what the representative, Mr Vaksdal, has said in his presentation of this position. He said the very bearer sentences at the end, which imply the important principle that we must keep in mind when talking about electoral arrangements, including the question of barriers, namely that all voters' political positions, as expressed in elections, must also be reflected in this Chamber. It is natural and reasonable to have a barrier limit, but in Norwegian political tradition, as the studies carried out by the Committee show, there is a proper level. Raise it will only press what is called – and now I underline the term 'called' – the small parties, and it is not a sensible approach to democracy and voting. I myself was a member of the electoral commission, which provided the basis for the electoral system we have today, and this is very, very strong. I am pleased to say that the electoral system we have today is well representative, and that the barrier level is the right one, taking into account the importance of small parties in a political democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e782	This is a very serious matter on which the Committee has spent a lot of time. It is a matter that has raised some questions about the scope of our control responsibilities, i.e. the control responsibilities of Storting, and the responsibility of individual actors to answer the Storting. I'll get back to that a little bit. It is also a matter that has underlined the importance of having a capable and up-to-date free press in this country. NOBLE was a tool for developing new technology in Defense. In its contact with the OCAS sphere, there is a widespread breach of nearly all guidelines and laws regarding public acquisition and use of public funds. This occurred mainly between 2001 and 2005. In addition, the actual results, the achievement of the objectives of the project, have not been achieved. This, of course, is serious and raises several issues: how could it happen? Who was responsible? How could it go on over time? And above all, what can we do to make sure that this isn't happening again? The Committee has conducted two consultations with approximately all responsible and involved parties. There is a great deal in the Committee's attitude in learning how to avoid doing things. The Committee places responsibilities on the board, but distinguishes layers on the question of whether previous state councils can be placed under responsibility. I am pleased that the majority stands firm – all parties outside the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right – that governments are responsible for what is happening in their time. This is a criticism that particularly affects Krohn Devold. Through the examination of the case, the Committee has also established that former government councils are responsible to Stortingen – as has been said for the circumstances that have occurred in their time. The question of internal powers in the ministry and what information should be given to the Stortinget also arises through the examination of this matter. Large powers within the Defence Agency combined with inadequate information flows can partly explain what has happened. Whether Stortinget has been informed about the matter is also a relevant question. The principle here in the house is of course that it should be possible to identify what we spend money on, and control it afterwards. It has not been possible in this case. We therefore ask that the scope of the mandate be reviewed with a view to ensuring democratic control, understanding and governance for the future. There is an overall committee that agrees with the criticism that no one takes responsibility for what has happened. All important stakeholders were at the hearing, and the information that emerged may, overall, be involved in making important contributions that can reflect and explain what has happened. But it's nothing less than eye-catching that no one takes responsibility for the facts. At the same time, there is an overall committee that supports and is satisfied with the efforts of current political and defence leaders to get to the bottom of this matter. There is also every reason to believe that the learning curve is in place and that it will not repeat itself in the future. Many measures and system changes have been implemented in the Defence Department after, among others. This. Through the examination of the case, several additional issues have arisen that are extremely important. Is it the case that cross-financing has taken place between different parts of the OCAS sphere, so that public funds to the military have gone into the development of civil aviation systems? Furthermore, is it the case that the State has contributed public funds to the same projects several times through different contracts, different forms of project support, direct aid and tax relief schemes? This has not yet been possible either to confirm or to cancel because the availability of information and documentation has been inadequate. It is, of course, critical and serious in itself, because it makes the job difficult to get to the bottom of the matter and make clear that improper use of public funds has taken place. There is a further issue relating to the flow of information between various government agencies and departments, because Innovation Norway and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in this matter are in the information needed by the Ministry of Defence to complete this important job. Right now, these relevant papers are located in our committee room, transmitted – with the exception of publicity – from Innovation Norway. The situation arises because of the design of the public policy. In this case, it places the administration and use of public money in a very strange light. It is, as I said, public money, and what they are doing, and whether there is improper use, it must be possible to verify and control. The Committee therefore asks for a review of the flow of information between departments and for the preparation of the regulation. Another issue that has emerged concerns what has happened in the Air Safety Authority. The Authority has designed proposals for regulation which would have given a significant advantage to one operator in the market, both clearly and without modesty. Unauthorised test flights were conducted against the facilities of other operators and technical approvals were withdrawn. Overall, an image is created which is very critical and which the supervision itself has taken on board. However, the size is concerned that supervision depends on trust, both in the public sector and among the regulators. In order to bring final clarity to what has happened and what has not happened, and in order to restore the necessary trust, we therefore ask the Ministry to properly examine the relationship between the Air Safety Authority and the companies involved. Finally, the Committee has conducted the constitutional resuscitation of the Constitution § 75h. It turned out that several of the people we wanted to consult for necessary and relevant information on the table rejected the Committee. This, of course, places the authority of Stortingen and the ability to carry out proper control work in a bad light. We rely on everyone to stand up and explain themselves honestly and truthfully. Fortunately, this also understood our founding fathers, and we got Section 75h, which states that the Stortinget is free to call anyone to explain itself under special conditions. In this case, it was necessary to remind several of the key figures in the matter about it in order for them to come and explain themselves. However, there is a need to modernise Storting’s Rules of Procedure at this point so that convening and consultation can be carried out in a more appropriate manner. But I'm happy to be able to report back to the President that I think it's a long time before someone again chooses to say no when the Control and Constitutional Committee asks. In Stortingen today we put a kind of sentence for our consideration of this matter. However, there are still processes to review before setting the final sentence. These are the defence's own legal assessments. These are assessments of the public policy. It is a review of the relations of the Air Safety Authority, and it is our own Rules of Procedure that are linked to the practice of the Basic Law §75h. It is a serious matter, in which I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, now put forward a statement that underlines this. My hope is that, as a system, we are able to learn from this, so that similar things do not repeat themselves, that the further processes are carried out in a proper way, and that the result is useful and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e811	This is a very special matter – fortunately. It is a serious matter, even for the Defense – fortunately still. Because even though over the years we have had more examples of lack of economic governance in defence or in one of the weapons, this is still very special. The thing really just gets worse and worse the more you dig in it. So we're going to put a sentence on Storting's treatment today, but as the case-rapporteur said, it has to go on in other arenas and in the government apparatus, maybe not least in the Ministry of Transport – I'll get back to it. 140 million. kr of the funds for Norwegian Battle Lab & Experimentation, i.e. NOBLE, a project under the Air Force and the Chief of Defence, was thus given to two entrepreneurs – former fighter aircraft, of course – to develop a radar warning system. At least that's how it looked on the surface. NOBLE concluded a series of contracts with the companies of these companies, Tyra Invest and SSPR, the so-called OCAS companies. OCAS AS is the current company. These are these entrepreneurs' private companies to develop new technologies. However, the funds were not used for the Armed Forces' ordered radar alerting system, but were largely used for the development of a similar project by the same entrepreneurs, a system for the marking of aviation barriers for the Air Safety Authority, or the then Aviation Administration. So it could be added that they took out 20 million. kr in dividends. But the defense got no operational solutions – and we're talking about 140 million. NOK, which was not the only money in this project. As the rapporteur also said, no one takes responsibility for this. We've had four defence ministers in for a hearing. No one knew anything. The present cannot be loaded for this, otherwise – this is something that happened before her time. But no one took responsibility either. No one can tell how it could happen, because this was under the authority of the chief of defense. The head of defense who was in fact responsible for the longest period, General Sigurd Frisvold, also took no responsibility for the loss of the money, but owed it to the chairman of the NOBLE, Inspector General of the Air Force, Tomas Colin Archer. Defence is usually an organisation where it is not common to push responsibility downwards. In the hearing Frisvold simply said that he could not answer what had gone wrong. Also today's defense chief, Harald Sunde, believes Colin Archer was responsible for what had happened. I have to add that neither the National Auditorate, who tends to be zealous, as we know, in his sweeping of the defence, discovered the money that had gone away. So it took two journalists from today’s Business to bring the matter to the fore. They actually started looking at the other end, that is, the civil radar alarm system – based on a tip that OCAS was getting monopolised in the Air Traffic Control. They were perhaps closer to the facts than they were aware of when they were sitting and working on the matter. The background for the defence project was good enough. In the spring of 1999, the NATO Summit adopted the Defence Capabilities Initiative (DCI) to strengthen the military capabilities and operational capabilities of the Member States. The Air Force, and subsequently the Armed Forces and the Chief of Defence, wanted to establish a lab for the development of the marking of aviation barriers, also known as NOBLE. Colonel Tom Johansen was appointed as the Executive Director, and a top-heavy board was set up. It wasn't just GIL that had many stars in that board. This was a performance project. The fact that the project was given a separate board was also special. A unanimous committee then also points out that it is a fundamental principle that no government should be used in governmental administrative bodies. The Committee is therefore critical of the fact that NOBLE was not linked to the regular line organisation. But as the two journalists mentioned in Today's Business wrote: ‘The NOBLE was intended to cut short the heavy-duty defence system and enter into contracts with private businesses in order to obtain concrete results quickly. The mandates were known and the bureaucracy around the money allocations was absent. In the next few years, Colonel Tom Johansen was to dispose of a bag of hundreds of millions of dollars. Soon, a hesitant flow of money was shattered over old pilot colleagues.’ Former Governor Tomas Colin Archer spoke enough to the same newspaper on 24 November 2009: “I have had no idea that there was so much money before I read it in today’s business.” We are talking about the Chairman of the Board, and comments are really unnecessary. One of the two founders of the OCAS sphere, former hunter pilot Morten Mørk, confirmed during the hearing that NOBLE specified its requirements too poorly, because they left him and the OCAS companies to do what they wanted. That might have been the intention. So NOBLE was created as a trial project under Federal Councillor Eldbjørg Løwer. The project itself started under Bjørn Tore Godal, and most of the business took place when Kristin Krohn Devold was the Council of State – without apparently knowing anything or taking responsibility. There are other shared views, if you read the hearing, about what political leadership actually knew at that time. The money was gone anyway. As Bjørn Tore Godal said during the hearing: ‘NOBLE was under the Defence Chief and Air Force, and well within the limits of the powers of the Defence Chief and the Armed Forces.’» It might sound strange, but there are budgets in this house, where the Storting approves the amount down to $50,000, just so it's also said. A unanimous committee calls on the Ministry of Defence to go through the scope of the Chief of Defence’s powers with a view to ensuring better political control and parliamentary control and transparency in the future. I assume that the Council of State will confirm this later today. Thus, this case has been extended to another operator in the administration, namely the Air Safety Authority, as it appears to have designed draft regulations for the marking of aviation barriers, and which, as the Committee puts it, would have given a significant advantage to one operator in the market, i.e. Morten Dark and OCAS. There are also a number of former air force pilots and other Air Force personnel who are now on the Air Traffic Control and who were then on the Air Traffic Control. A unanimous committee also requests the Ministry of Transport to examine the relations between the Air Safety Authority, OCAS AS and the company Protura/Cordina. It may be one of the most important follow-up actions in this case, because it can actually be the case – there is a lot to suggest – that the civil and military projects are two sides of the same case. There is a lot of evidence that the civil project became as early as the fall of 1999, and that the Air Force was actually involved in Morten Dark's civil project at the time, yes, that he actually cooperated with the Air Force at that time. Could it be then – I'm just asking questions, this is not a claim – that it suited this OCAS sphere with adjacent glory very well that NOBLE was formally created? Could it be that OCAS then got a box to milk as a prop of the civil project, called the Air Barrier Warning Project, and to which money was applied for in the SND, as it was then called, i.e. the current Innovation Norway. The fact that the defence funds were used as a proponent for this project was actually confirmed during the hearing, where Toril Mølmen from SND among others. said: ‘In these projects that we have had with OCAS, and where the defence has been in, we have produced a report showing that the equity, the costs on OCAS’ hand, were within the State aid rules and what we can contribute to, in addition to the projects that NOBLE paid directly to Kitron and Sintef. We parked in a way that cooperated in a separate agreement. We defined that as equity, because it was not part of the civil project that we supported." Could that be the case, and once again I just ask questions, that this is not just about two projects based on the same technology, but that there may actually be one project, started before the NOBLE was established – i.e. OCAS and Dark’s project for the Aviation Administration/Air Navigation Authority, but in cooperation with the Air Force? To put it another way: at the end of the 1990s, Dark’s then company Tyra Invest joined the Air Force, Kitron and others in a cooperation to develop the warning of aviation barriers, and it was well included in the usual public research and development contracts, which are triangle cooperation between state agencies, the old SND and entrepreneurs or private enterprises, even after the hearing. That was the shape of this collaboration, a form that was very common around 2000, that is, when the SND had been established and it was important to secure innovation through research and development contracts. It's a little unclear who were the state companies, but it's quite clear that the money in hand came from one place – every now and then from the NOBLE project in the Air Force, or the Defence. That's how the defense was stolen for 140 million. kr. And you can probably wonder what was the goal of the research that took place several times – in OCAS, and also in SINTEF, in Kitron, and elsewhere. Otherwise, in the case of this civil radar alarm system, it's now at full speed into the US market. This is going to be a success for these entrepreneurs and is an important part of what Norway sells out of the country. But, to conclude, it was the case that the Kosovo war had taught these fighter pilots that this was important – and that is it. We must remember that they were in all these companies, including the Air Traffic Authority – or the Aviation Agency, or whatever it was – and in the Air Force. Cross financing may only be the first letter of this case. So to Innovation Norway and what the case rapporteur also mentioned: It is problematic for the Swedish Government's control function that the Public Service Act prevents us from accessing Innovation Norway's papers. I understand that it is business secrets, but it is probably also so that it can be possible to deliver papers that can be unloaded in some fields. However, in any event, the Committee urges the Government to carefully consider amending the regulations in order to allow documentation to be made available to the Governing Boards in the event of suspicion of undue economic conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e862	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough work on a rather complicated matter. I would also like to commend the thorough and crucial work that journalists in today's business have done to bring the facts to the fore. Then I would like to add that I mainly share the statements – and that view – that have come from the case-rapporteur Ola Borten Moe and the Labour Party's Marit Nybakk. The defence has carried out a thorough review of this matter after the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has opened proceedings. The conclusions of the defense's own investigation are crushing in some areas, and it is almost incomprehensible that one in the defense had an organisation that was unable to deal with tendering processes and contract conclusion guidelines at all. Unfortunately, it fits quite well with the picture that you still have of parts of the Defense, and that is an unsustainable situation. The repeated criticism by the National Audit Office of the acquisition of the defence over the year may show that this issue was not taken seriously by the Defence Office, and perhaps it may be helpful to explain why NOBLE did not consider compliance with the Code to be so important. It also appears clear from the conclusions that, in the light of the information available to them, the defence cannot demonstrate that there are grounds for suspecting corruption or that there are defects in deliveries. To that it's important to add two things. One is that the defence's access to information has been weakened by the fact that the main person on the defence's side has not been available or willing to provide information, and that the main person on the OCAS side, Morten Dark, has not been willing to contribute to a particular degree, either. The other thing that can be added is that the documentation shows that NOBLE’s ability to enter into an agreement was very weak. There were no concrete enough requirements for deliveries in the short and long term, and it was not possible to follow the cash flows. It is a fundamental principle in the conclusion of a public contract to be able to follow the flows of money. In addition, it is clear that the delivery was in any case very late. In short, this means that neither the examination of the defence nor the examination of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs can be considered to have revealed all the facts in this case complex. The question of cross-subsidy by the Defence against civil OCAS products and possible blending of grants and loans between civil projects and the Defence project are examples of non-finally clarified matters. During the open hearing, it became clear that there were very few operators who were willing to take responsibility for what happened in the NOBLE. It is clear, however, that the Chief of Defence, who is always in charge of administration, is responsible for what is going on in the defence. However, the Council of State is the one who will always have the top responsibility. There is reason to stress that it is not a prerequisite for the State Council's responsibility that the Council of State actually knew what was going on in its own organisation. There are examples of governments being forced to go off because of matters or events that have occurred in their organisations or lines, without themselves being familiar with the critical circumstances in advance. Government responsibilities are final, and state councils that avoid being informed should, of course, not be able to be relieved of their responsibilities. It is not a requirement to hold a State Council accountable that it actually had the opportunity to avert the critical circumstances. During the hearing, a point was made that it was not relevant to inform the Stortinget about the NOBLE and the organisation of the NOBLE because it is far below what is characterised as Category 1, which concerns amounts above 500 million. kr. Thereafter, it is necessary to review the powers of the Defence Manager and to check whether the level of information is sufficient. The defence is a political responsibility, and it is clearly crucial for the confidence of the Defence Minister to be the Minister of Defence who has real control in the Department, and that the Council of State in matters that appear to be special, at least ensure procedures that provide information that the Council of State can pass on to the Stortinge if necessary. The civil product resulting from the cooperation between the Defence and the OCAS company and some other actors was a radar warning system for aviation barriers. The project has also had an unusually close relationship with the former SND and Innovation Norway over a long time and has received a number of different grant statements from Innovation Norway. OCAS was for a long time alone to offer that type of anti-aircraft solution, and a regulation was issued at the hearing that would impose some form of radar marking of aviation barriers, including power masts. If implemented, the regulation would contribute to OCAS being placed in a very good market position. However, a competitor came to OCAS. Protura AS created an alternative system. A number of data have been generated during the Committee’s examination indicating that a type of OCAS sword campaign against Protura AS was initiated. This resulted, inter alia, in: in that the Air Safety Authority tested one of Protura’s facilities together with representatives of OCAS AS unlawfully and without the knowledge of Protura. In retrospect, Protura AS, now Cordina AS, has been subjected to a highly critical procedure – I want to stress it – by the Air Safety Authority, which clearly provides the basis for suspecting the Air Safety Authority that it has not been impartial in its proceedings. The creation of such an impression is very unfortunate. I have to say that I generally expect a much higher quality of the work to be done by official control and approval bodies. What we have seen in this matter is not reliable. It is serious for the Air Safety Authority that a unanimous committee considers that there is reason to ask questions about the procedures of the Air Safety Authority in these matters. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister for Transport is following up – and I hope the Minister for Defence will pass this on to the Minister for Transport – the request of the unanimous committee for an appropriate review of the relationship between the Air Safety Authority, OCAS AS and Protura, now Cordina AS. In particular, it has become important in the course of the journey in view of the fact that new information is constantly emerging about these conditions. This case has shown several very critical aspects of the management of public funds and public use. It is quite clear that it is necessary to follow this further by the relevant departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e892	Let me also join in what the previous speaker said, namely to give commendation to the case rapporteur for a thorough work and an article that I can mainly join. Let me also do it a little unusual from the Great Council's pulpit and say that this case we probably wouldn't have dealt with here if it hadn't been for the press to have resources to dig. It's worth noting for the government, because it has something to do with resources, to be able to put people off for months to find critical things in government. The thing is special – yes, it's enough. I'm not sure it's so special that we can't experience it later in the administration. There is a lot of money going through the government in Norway. Although I think we are relatively free from corruption, this case is one of the things that is absolutely in the border country and that should not have happened. The Committee, through its consultations, has tried to identify who was responsible for this. Two heads of defense have basically given the same answer. It was then General Inspector Tomas Colin Archer of the Air Force, who had been delegated this responsibility by the then Chief of Defence, Sigurd Frisvold. The answer from both of the hearings was very clear: One person was responsible for this from the defence. Then you can raise the question of whether this case is all alone. I just want to remind you, although it does not have a direct connection with the matter, that in this case, too, the tender rules have been ignored. Unfortunately, the defence is a repetition of the annual audit of the National Audit Office, Document 1, in respect of criticism of breaches of the procurement rules. I am aware that parts of the defence business are excluded, but that of course does not apply to those parts of the defence that are criticised in the annual reports of the National Audit Office. Here it sins regularly, and it doesn't get significantly better from year to year. I hope it's the last time I can say it, because it would have been very good. There are many of us who want the defense to have a lot of money, perhaps even more, but then we want them to be managed in a good way. Of course, 140 million. kr thrown out of the window without any defence benefits is a serious matter. It's a small part of the defence budget, but it's really a big part for many other government councils, who would really enjoy using similar funds. I also understand that the Minister of Defence is now facing significant cost problems – I think she announced in yesterday’s talk – as far as the Air Force is concerned, causing 140 million. it also counts in the defence context. Let me also touch on the question of the responsibilities of the Councils. There is no doubt that a government council is responsible for everything that is going on in the department. That is why we also had Kristin Krohn Devold, then Minister of Defence – from 2001 to 2005 – in for a hearing. It was well documented through her response in the hearing and through the defense chief's statements of the time that the then state council Krohn Devold did not know about the project and the project's problems. It also didn't have the former head of defense. So in that case, this communication of problems had to have taken place outside the head of defence of the Council of State, but there is no evidence of it. On the contrary, the archives of the Ministry of Defence have been documented that there is no such information as it is possible to trace. But I agree that, of course, a government council is always responsible for what is going on in its department. That's why it's interesting, when the Council of States is next on the list of speakers, to ask three questions to the Council of State: Does she feel certain that she would have been informed of these matters today, according to today's rules, because, as the case-rapporteur also stated, as Minister of Defence would of course have the constitutional responsibility for it today? Let's just assume that this project didn't happen when it happened, but it happened today and under today's rules. Does she feel confident that she would be informed about this when she was confronted with the Storting? Is the Council of State satisfied with what we got the impression, that sums below a certain limit never came to the Council of State because it was delegated to the Chief of Defense? Is the Council of State Faremo satisfied with the division of labour that is currently between the head of defence and the Council of State in terms of the financial framework? It seems to us to others that the amounts are relatively high in the defense, and that in any other department it would become a little bit different. Here I have actually asked the Council of State to follow up with the Minister of Enterprise, and raise the question: Is there too much secrecy about so-called business secrets in the current Innovation Norway, so that we can experience that a private project can suck off the treasury from two sources without knowing each other? Of course, I am in favour of being able to deal with business secrets in public administration as well, but there must be limits, and it is important that the public administration should not be deceived either. The second is the question of follow-up to the Minister for Transport with regard to the responsibilities of the Air Safety Authority. That was essentially the three questions. I remember that the Stortinget now has a good opportunity to follow this up by the Council of State regularly coming to spontaneous questioning hours in Stortinget. It may well be that some of us will spontaneously remember things from this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e923	By looking up the media in the autumn of 2009, I learned about NOBLE and their relationship with companies in the so-called OCAS sphere. I took the claim of a breach of the rules, of a lack of cost control and of deliveries that did not correspond to the needs of the defence very seriously, and I have therefore followed this matter closely. In view of the gravity of the matter and in order to obtain the overall picture of the case, the head of defence set up at my request a working group to assess the contracts, project financing and the stability of the case. The report of the Working Party was held last May and was previously forwarded to the Control and Constitutional Committee. The report confirmed and reinforced the very serious issues on which the Committee was informed last January. It also appeared to be clear that there was not a lack of legislation that caused this, but a lack of compliance with the legislation. The various aspects of the case were further elucidated by the inspection hearings last autumn. Even after the hearing, it was considered that there was no satisfactory clarification – which several people have been present today – which I also confirmed during the hearing to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that I would follow up. One of the issues for which clarification was sought was the question of whether cross-financing of military and civil technology has occurred. The directors of the companies OCAS AS, Tyra Invest AS and SSPR AS have therefore been attributed after the hearing and have been asked to release the documents and accounts that are necessary to further clarify the matter. None of the companies mentioned above would like to provide further information to the Ministry of Defence's investigations in this matter. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence has attributed the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and has requested the provision of relevant documentation from Innovation Norway. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade cannot see that there is a basis for the Ministry of Defence to obtain the requested information directly from Innovation Norway. Without transparency, it is not possible for the Ministry of Defence to further elucidate the issue of cross-financing. In its setting, the Committee takes the view that the government is carefully considering amending the public policy in order to allow evidence to be made available to state authorities in the event of suspicion of undue economic conditions. It is the Ministry of Justice and Police that is the law-managing body of the Public Code and its regulations. The Ministry of Defence has therefore sent the matter to the Ministry of Justice and Police for follow-up. The Ministry of Defence's request is now pending in the Ministry of Justice. After the September consultation, attempts have also been made to address the issue of stability. The defense team has attributed this to the then leader of the NOBLE, who has been disposed of for health reasons, but this enquiry has not been answered either. Consequently, it is not now possible to conclude on the question of stability, but as long as it cannot be concluded, the question will continue to be followed up. In this case, the defence employees have in any case not been careful enough in contact with former defence employees of the companies concerned. The Ministry of Defence also has other key aspects of follow-up. Here is the status as follows: The Defence Logistics Organisation is still working on legal and technical investigations on the royalties requirement from the sale of the OCAS system. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has requested information and assessments related to State aid granted by the Defence and other public operators to OCAS companies. The Ministry of Defence is now awaiting further proceedings in ESA in accordance with established procedures. The Advocate General has the NOBLE case under consideration. He will advise the Defense on how the case should be investigated. The Advocate General sent the matter to Ecokrim for a professional assessment and awaited his reply. The Ministry of Defence's budget is approx. 39 B.C.E. DKK annually, and the Defence Purchases for a total of 16-17 billion. kr per year. Under 300000 orders are made annually. All management of public funds shall be sound. The use of resources shall be effective and the accounting and documentation requirements shall be met. I therefore place great emphasis on professional financial management and good governance in the defence sector. Purchases of defence equipment and services are subject to law and regulation on public acquisitions and procurement law for the defence sector, abbreviated as ARF. This ARF includes, inter alia: cost control legislation. Both the law and the regulation on public acquisitions and the ARF impose, as a general principle, fundamental requirements on the defence, inter alia: competition, transparency and reproducibility in the procurement process. The procurement rules shall contribute, through the essential requirements, to the efficient use of resources and to the public's confidence that the acquisition of defence takes place in a socially appropriate manner. The procurement rules shall also contribute to reducing the risk of corruption and camaraderie. By complying with the procurement rules, the defence will ensure that the funds are used in a sound, efficient and socially sound manner. It is obvious that such requirements of professionalism, impartiality and efficient use of resources are imposed on public purchasers in the Defence that manage the Community funds. The Committee points out in its opinion that it would have been useful if the NOBLE project had been known to the Stortinge in the past, and asks for the powers of the Defence Manager to be reviewed in order to ensure better political and parliamentary control. I share the Committee's view on the need for political control, and in this respect I will return to the questions directly raised. In setting up integrated strategic management and the new investment concept, powers to approve investments were taken over by the Ministry. We have also strengthened the requirement for activity reporting as a basis for the department's monitoring of the agencies. These are measures that help to ensure the necessary political control. In addition to strengthening the department's internal audit, I have also ordered in the wake of this case a review of ongoing contracts in which no competition has been carried out with a view to ensuring compliance with cost control under the ARF. This year, we will give priority to management, governance, competence and enforcement in the areas of sound management, attitudes and ethics in particular. This will provide the basis for further improvements in financial management and management. I have also set up a separate high-level group led by the head of defence to follow up the improvement work in a systematic way. We have set up an e-learning programme on ethics for the employees of the Ministry of Defence. These include: on alerts, acquisitions and conversion processes. It shall be implemented throughout the defence sector during the year. Public acquisition regulations allow ethical and social requirements to be imposed in the performance of contracts. The Ministry of Defence has therefore, as the first of the departments, incorporated ethical trade requirements into its own procurement legislation. This is a requirement that all our suppliers and subcontractors now have to deal with if they want to deliver goods to us. The ‘Certification House’ of the Defence is the name of a structured system for the systematic build-up of competence in the individual job types. This system is extended to the area of procurement, and I expect these measures to contribute to the increased professionalisation of procurement. The risk management of the acquisition activity is also being introduced in the defence companies, and I will mention the project ‘Better Acquisitions’ which was launched in 2009 with a view to improving the efficiency of the acquisition activity in the Defence. I have done my utmost to get to the bottom of this matter. I am therefore pleased that the decision of the Enlarged Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs expressed satisfaction with the Ministry of Defence's handling of this matter. The defence manages, to which several representatives have referred, large values on behalf of society, and it is an absolute requirement that these funds be well managed. As Minister of Defence, I would therefore also like to assure myself that the Department is following this up in the Department of Defence. Improvements in the acquisition activity in Defence are primarily an ongoing challenge of competence and leadership. I demand that the defence sector at all levels strengthen its competence in this area. We have a challenging job ahead of us, and there are hardly any quick solutions. Several speakers have referred to the role of the Air Safety Authority and questions about the follow-up of the Ministry of Transport. Let me briefly also refer to three points which I believe are of interest to the Committee in this way: It was found in the hearing that there have been unfortunate incidents in the proceedings of the Air Safety Authority. I have been informed that the Air Safety Authority has taken action on this matter and is in good process to get things in place, as was also informed by the inspection at the hearing on 14 October last year. The Ministry of Transport will follow the recommendation of the Control and Constitutional Committee and will properly review relations between the Air Safety Authority, OCAS AS and Cordina AS, formerly Protura AS, and the Department will assess how best to carry out such a review. Finally, in the case of a draft new regulation on the labelling of air traffic barriers, the supervisory board informed the hearing that they would revise the draft consultation and re-consult the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e975	Of course, it's always the case that you have to be careful with what you say, and carefully with the words. I'm starting this post this way because I'm now going to be very careful about what I'm saying. First, I would like to say that I can really fully subscribe to everything that has been said from this pulpit in this matter from everyone who has been up here. Then, like several others, but I will also do so from my point of view, I would like to stress what the Minister of Defence himself has just said, that there is an overall committee that expresses satisfaction with the handling of this matter by the current Minister of Defence. I will also address that satisfaction to the Chief of Defense Harald Sunde. What we've seen is that both political and professional leadership has gone very thoroughly into this matter after it became known, and has produced a report that in many ways is crushing and very self-critical, as it should of course be when there is a basis for it. The Committee and the Stortinget appreciate that the department's management, both politically and professionally, has done so. Then I come to my point, for this is in and of itself natural things to say. My point is that I believe that we should not end this debate and put a stop to this matter until we find out that both the Stortinget – it is very serious, of course – and the political and professional leadership of the department clearly have a common problem. The common problem is that we have not, in the Ministry of Defence's report, even in Harald Sunde's work and not through the extensive work carried out by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on behalf of the Stortingen, which we are discussing today, found entirely answers to the essential questions. I think that is very serious. I want to characterize it as a common problem, as I have now done, because it's a common problem. No documents, no testimonies, nor today from Stortinget's pulpit can anyone say quite clearly why it happened. There's no clear answer to that. There's no clear answer, there's no point. Nor is it that we get a complete answer to how this was organized. There we experience several variants. At last, of course, who really stood for this, and who was responsible? I have an additional comment, which I assume both the Council of State and the Chief of Defence, who are present here, are noticing. That's the side of the case that's about the defense being, naturally and correctly, of course, organized from top to bottom. It should be, when dealing with a project like this, even though it may not be so big. I'm now showing the quote sign, because more people have used that expression, because it's not so big. No, but we notice that none of the peaks, who were responsible for the periods in question, stand up and take responsibility. I would like to emphasise this here from the Spokesman's Chair that I think is a bit strange and not quite pleasant experience. It tends to be the exact opposite. The governance structures in the Defence – and I know a little about them, even if I'm not going to argue it so much – are usually not to be misunderstood. So in this case, it has not been possible to get along that line. We're going to put a dot right now. I refer to what the Council of State just said about its further follow-up in the matter and the handling of this by the Ministry of Justice. That's good. Then we'll see if it should at any time be the basis for the Storting to have to come back to this matter. I'm not gonna shoot that. But I believe, as I have now stated, that one should not end this matter, which is a very serious matter, on this basis – perhaps at last the most serious thing about the whole matter, which I am not just trying to say, but which I think I say quite clearly in this post. That's the kind of thing we shouldn't experience. I believe that the leadership of the defense, which I have expressed, should not find its way into it, to use a popular expression. But the other side of the matter is, of course, that there is a big dilemma for us that when the National Assembly goes into a case, it has a right to know what has happened. It has, as I said, been very difficult in this matter, and it is in itself perhaps at the seventh and last and in some time perspective the most serious thing about the whole question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e994	I have not spoken before in the debate because I think the rapporteur and other debaters have so excellently presented the Committee's views. But after the Council of State made its statement, I need to say a few words, because it made a very big dilemma in relation to one of the questions that was the starting point for dealing with the matter by the Control and Constitutional Committee, namely, question 5 to the Minister of Defence when we opened the case, more and less, last year. That question sounded like this: ‘Have the defence known that extensive public support has been provided through SND/Innovation Norway throughout the period of defence with OCAS and associated companies and to what extent has it been assured that public funds from the Defence have been used as a basis for ensuring the company’s access to public civil financing?’ With the answer given by the Council of State, the Council of State confirms that we do not know that. The Council of State said that an attempt has been made against Innovation Norway, but Innovation Norway answers that they are not authorised. I then assume that Innovation Norway believes that they are obliged to silence, that they would break a law or a paragraph if they provided this information. Then I am very happy that the Council of State has started a work to clarify it further. I understand that a letter has been sent from – what to say – the Minister of Defence to the functioning Minister of Justice, so that there would be an opportunity to clarify it fairly quickly. If you're going to see this from the granting authority, it's very important to find out if we're going to get into a situation where we don't know if there's been any support and maybe there's been a significant misuse of public support. So I respond to the answers that the Council of State indicated that you want to get from the government too, because this is not a sustainable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2055]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1017	We are then ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 5 on today's map. Now, when we're going to vote on constitutional proposals, the president will suggest that we vote in the usual way in case no. 1, 3 and 4, but that it is voted by roll call in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox No objections have been raised against it and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1029	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:7 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1056	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘Document No. 12:8 [[The Court of Appeal and the General Court may not be abrogated]] We're going to vote by roll call, and we're going to vote between this proposal and the vote I.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1110	Alternatively, between the second part of the vote and proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:11 [[Court of Appeal and Court of Appeal]] That's also going to be true for name-prop. The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they support the proposal of the Left Subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-11.ana.ud1549e1382	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
