ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e28	A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Inbjørg Vogskesen, Sylvi Graham, Are Health, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen and Marianne Marthinen on leave from 17 October to 11 November – all to attend the 66th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, of New York from the delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Ingrid Heggø. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Aksel Hagen, Ingrid Heggø and Truls Wickholm from 18 October to 20 October, of the representative of Øyvind Waksdal from 19 to 20 October and of the representative of Hadia Tajik from 18 October – all to attend the 125th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Bern from the first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Sonja Edvardsen, to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Ingrid Heggø from 18 October to 20 October, due to illness, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For the Aust-Agder province: Åshild Karoline Haugland 18 October–11. November For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen 17 October–11. ==References====External links== November For Uppland County: Kristine Kvam 18-20. October For Oslo: Karin Yrvin 19 October–11. ==References====External links== October and Ivar Leveraas 18 October For Rogaland County: Terje Halleland 19-20. October For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Anette Stegegiardet Norberg 18-20. October For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bård Langsavold October 17-11. November For Eastfold County: Erlend Wiborg October 17-11. November
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e136	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e139	I am first delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself to make changes to today's legislation on social assistance to mother or father if they have children who have their own income, and turn municipal social assistance into a state responsibility under Nav. Then I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself to set up a public body to investigate statutory minimum wages – measures against undesirable working conditions in the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e146	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e149	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to propose better quality and patient safety in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e154	Finally, Mr Korsberg wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e157	On behalf of Solvency Horne, Ib Thomsen, Mette Hanekamhaug and myself, I propose to change the law in Norway to be adapted to international guidelines for amateur and professional boxing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e162	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e176	The matter before us has not been dealt with in the regulatory period of 48 hours, but on the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget examine the matter now. If no one objects, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that we go to voting on the matter immediately, so that we are allocated the tasks related to the State budget. [[Footage, see page 147]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6003	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Grete Faremo, Erik Solheim and Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6012	My question goes to the Council of State Erik Solheim. This week there were many car owners who rightly felt cheated by the environmental policy of the red-green government. After the conversion of car charges from the 2007 state budget, the signal to all drivers in the country was that the diesel car was an environmentally sound choice. All the focus was on CO2. The current Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen even called it a ‘conversion of car charges for a better environment’. Obedient as we are in this country, many of us have listened to the government. The sale of diesel cars increased dramatically – in fact to such an extent that three out of four new-sold cars turned out to be diesel-powered cars. As late as June this year was 77.5 pst. of new cars sold by diesel cars. But then it was supposed to show that it wasn't that simple. All the warnings from the Progress Party came along in 2006, and the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations expressed the same opinion on this, should prove to be correct, namely that the unilateral focus on CO2 as opposed to NOx, and especially nitrogen dioxide, has actually helped to exacerbate our neighbourhood, especially in the major cities. The result is that the same diesel car that was recently defined as an environmentally friendly great car has been branded as an environmental hoard – yes, it looked to the degrees that you are now at risk of getting a driving ban on diesel cars. It is difficult to follow up on the changes in the government's environmental car policy – call it. For what is the government's view of an environmentally friendly car this week? This varies a lot over time. And how can the government expect most people to have confidence in the government's recommendations on the car side, when you see that the same car that a few years ago was an environmentally friendly car, now it's become an environmental mishap, and you actually risk driving bans?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6036	Let me first congratulate Per-Willy Amundsen on his uproar – I don't know if I can call it that – on the Environment Policy spokesman for the Progress Party. In any case, welcome to the club! I look forward to many fresh discussions on environmental issues and energy issues in the two years that are left of this period – perhaps longer too. Let me also say that the questions asked by the representative are not formally within my remit, but if the President allows, I will nevertheless try to answer the questions. It is often the case that different environmental considerations stand up against each other and are not easily reconciled at the same time, and it is true, as Amundsen says, that when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions, people are best served to move from petrol cars to diesel cars, while diesel cars present local environmental problems, not least for asthmatics, as a result of NOx, and especially NO2, which are a kind of sub-group of NOx. This dilemma has been clear all along, it was clear when the government submitted its fees for some years back, and it is clear today. The new thing that has happened in the meantime is that the test methods developed by the EU, on which Norway has based its policy, have clearly underestimated NO2 emissions. The EU test methods are simply not correct, the tests give less impact than the real results when the cars are actually out there. I won't say why, it may be that the tests don't take enough account of the cold, the real operation of the engines or many other factors, but at least the decisions were based on test results that have been shown today – in the heavy thing called reality – not to vote. That is the background for the prudent conversion towards reducing NO2 emissions. Let me also add that what Amundsen mentioned is a proposal from municipalities, even a proposal from a municipality where the Progress Party has been in power until recently. It is the municipality of Oslo, not the government, which has proposed what is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6062	It is true, as the Council of State notes, that charging issues are generally lower than the Ministry of Finance, so that in the follow-up questions, one should relate to the environmental aspects of the main issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6065	It's true, as the Council of State says, that it's the municipality of Oslo that in this situation has aired the possibility of driving bans. But it is the government's responsibility that diesel car sales have increased so much to the degrees that you actually experience the air quality problem in the big cities that you have today. Buying a car is actually a big investment for many families. But when you experience from one day to the next that what was an environmentally good car is going to be an environmental hosting, then it matters to the valuation of that car. It matters to the individual's economy, when it comes to the new acquisition of a car, given its second-hand value. What I'm asking is quite simply: is it that you went a little too fast, that you weren't concerned about quality assurance of the recommendations you made through the charging system, and that you might as well have gone a little bit slower to make sure that, when you gave a kind of signal about what was an environmentally friendly car, you actually also gave the right signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6072	Let me first say again that I have no problem understanding that frustration many out there feel. You don't invest in a new car every week, you invest in a new car every 10 or 15 years, and you do it on the basis of the signals that come from the political environment, also through the price mechanisms. So I have no problem understanding that frustration. At the same time, we have to recognize that science is not an exact size. In fact, balancing different environmental considerations is not always an easy task either. So here we have based ourselves on the tests of the European Union, and the idea that Norway, as a small country, should review the EU's best scientific advice in this area is, at least, ambitious – let me put it that way! Then I have to add that the Municipality of Oslo and the Advance Party, as said, have been sitting with power until quite recently, have put forward proposals on car/driving, banning one person in the car, or banning the private use of diesel cars in a crisis situation. These may be necessary measures, but these are the municipalities, where the Progress Party also has influence, which decides whether or not to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6081	Three follow-up questions have been asked, first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6084	It was also known at the time the charges came, that diesel cars emit more NOx than petrol cars. But on the right, we want a tax system that encourages the individual consumer to behave in an environmentally friendly way. We are not opposed to a change in the fee in relation to environmental considerations, but we are concerned with this with predictability. So the question and challenge is, how do we give each individual consumer confidence in the government and the government's tax and tax policy in terms of environmental considerations? Unfortunately, we have a story on biodiesel, where one encouraged consumption, and then suddenly there was a fee, and now we have a change of tax on diesel cars. So how can we ensure that consumers can have confidence in the government's tax policy with a view to encouraging environmentally friendly behaviour?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6092	I believe that the safest basis for confidence is that the government and the political environment always base their decisions on it at all times, the best available scientific basis. I don't think we as politicians can overdo what our best scientists say about the different emissions. Here, then, the test methods developed by the EU have proved to be unsustainable. They've been right in running tests on the tracks, maybe in laboratories and many others -- let's call it some theoretical places, but they haven't been right out there in reality. So it turns out that the emissions are actually going to be larger than the tests were supposed to, and that's the basis for the conversion we're now seeing. But I repeat: there is a difficult balance between greenhouse gas emissions, which suggests transition to diesel cars, and the local outbursts in cities, not least for asthmatics, which suggests that diesel cars are not being given much weight. It is easy to understand that this creates confusion for consumers. We need to use price signals and information to provide the best possible information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6101	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6105	I find it at least liberating that the Council of State says that he understands the frustration that is out there. We're not exactly the champions of the world right now, I see. So my question is a follow-up to what's mentioned earlier. In order to get a little more ‘drive’ on environmental policy, even in relation to fuel taxes, the government – or they said – ensured that we would be given a sales mandate for biofuels. Last November, the Minister for the Environment issued a press release on the tightening of the sales ban from 1 July of this year, so that 5 pst. of all sold fuels should be biofuels. Today we have come to the 12th of October. No one has heard more about this tightening of the sales ban, and that is not mentioned in the State budget either. So my question is, when does something happen – if the government really thinks that something is going to happen in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6114	The recognition that environmental policy is not only black and white, but that there are dilemmas, is also true of biofuels, and the Christian People's Party has been the best people who have illustrated it, by one day being for it and the other day warning against it. But I'm not going to spend time on polemics. It is a real problem, and the problem is that the sustainability criteria developed by the EU in this area are far too weak. That means there's a lot of biofuels coming in that don't keep the goals that I'm absolutely sure the Seven and I agree on, for example. that biofuel production should not lead to land degradation in developing countries and many other negative effects on the world's poor. That's why we've hesitated to move on this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6121	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6124	As many people have been involved, and as the Council of State has also talked about, this is about predictability. With regard to the biodiesel tax, which the representative Syversen had in mind, I have to ask: What long-term plans does the government have? And when it comes to hydrogen bets, I'd like to ask the Environment Minister, too many people out there wonder, how's the hydrogen bet going? Can all those who have now invested in electric cars be sure that their advantage will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6129	Since it now appears to be very negative, all of it, let's celebrate that Norway is the electric car paradise. So it's not just me saying in self-confidence, but Mitsubishi, who's the one who's gotten the most involved in introducing electric cars, will very soon sell his thousand family car on the Norwegian market. They want me to bring me around the rest of the world to tell you, for example. the Russian dumb how well we provide for electric cars in Norway, in the hope that the Russians can do something of the same, i.e. preferential rights in collective fields, etc. So this is really a Norwegian success – a Norwegian success that is even an export article. Then, of course, it comes to a point that at the moment when everyone has electric cars, they can't have priority in collective fields; they all get it. Where that point lies, no one can say for sure. But what I'm concerned about is that there should be absolute predictability of when it comes. That is, people know this well in advance, for example. that when 100 000 electric cars are sold on the Norwegian market, changes — or other similar predictable ways of regulating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6136	When it comes to diesel, it's environmental diesel, biodiesel or standard diesel, it comes in a strange light in this government. We all know about biodiesel, and she's a little flatter for the government. Now we see that most people feel led by the light and wondered that there has been a change from the use of a diesel car being environmentally friendly to the fact that it has become an environmental hosting. 100 000 car owners have lost both the environment and the economy to listen to this government, and in particular to the Socialist Left Party. I'm not going to ask what advice the Minister for the Environment would give to those who are now bombing so completely, but does the government acknowledge that they have been quite on the verge of making recommendations as a loser, both economically and especially environmentally – all those who have invested in new diesel cars, and there are 100,000 since 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6143	I recognize that this creates great problems for individuals out there. I also recognise that this creates confusion and can easily lead to environmental policy problems, but I do not recognise that it is wrong to build on the best available scientific knowledge at any time. I would very much like the Progress Party to do a little more, for example. in climate policy. It is a commendable way to pursue policies that I think will make Norway a better country. Now I'm not going to run polemics in this area, but it's several of the opposition parties that have jumped and jumped as much as the government in this area. It doesn't get the same consequences for people out there, I admit it. However, it is difficult when the scientific basis changes, and it is difficult to balance different environmental considerations with each other, such as: global greenhouse gas emissions against local NOx and NO2 emissions, from which asthmatics are plagued in a city.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6156	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6159	As the right often points out, too many people are out of work, but there are also a lot of chroniclers and disabled people working. The disadvantage of this is that for many people who have a chronic illness or disability, it costs more than for others, for example. getting back and forth to work – be so healthy that you feel alert enough to go to work every day. Many of them have also experienced that they have almost had to enter the labour market. But they're happy to be there, and they're happy to be able to contribute and make an effort. Until now, the tax has been able to deduct expenditure, among other things. related to transport back and forth to work. It's going to end now. The government says this will be compensated in other ways. But besides the fact that the tax deduction goes away, we also know that there are probabilities, for example. in the municipal sector, which you have to pay if you are at work, but which you do not have when you are not at work. My question to the Council of State is therefore very specific. The Ministry of State is responsible for participation in Norway. Has the Ministry of State specifically assessed the effect on the participation of chroniclers and disabled people in the work of removing the tax deduction on disease expenditure — yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6170	Like the previous question to Solheim, this is also a question that is essentially under the Minister of Finance. But the concrete question of the effect and how many people get into work belongs to me. I can immediately say that there has been no concrete assessment of what this will entail. It has its background in that I do not share the representative's assumption that, with the government's arrangements, overall this will mean that it will be more difficult to get to work. The background is, first of all, that the changes we make in the deduction of chroniclers involve a more targeted effort. This means that instead of having a deduction, we transfer the funds to those who need it the most. In fact, today it's giving away, regardless of what income you have, and it can give off to people with high wages. Now we first target what is related to dental health, the adaptation of housing, the work of the Diabetes Association, and not least the car benefit for Group 2 cars. Similarly, we are now increasing the subsidy for work and education trips, so that what is in the budget is to cover all the foreseen costs for the current year. So the government is not least putting forward a job strategy aimed at getting people with disabilities into work, and without spending time on it: we have clear, targeted measures to get them into work. Among other things, we increase – and have a great deal of money – the organisation grants to employers. Overall, this is a budget that is good to increase participation for people who are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6181	Now I did not ask about the rest of the budget that the government has submitted in the Ministry of Labour field. Some of it's good, something's less good, and something's very bad. What I asked about was actually this deduction of disease costs, because there is a difference between the arrangements that the government strengthens, and this deduction. It is a particularly favourable deduction for those who are at work. It is good for the government to put forward a plan to get disabled people into work, but it must also be remembered that there are many chroniclers and disabled people working today. And what are they saying? Well, if this deduction goes away, they think they're at risk of having to go back to the ‘non-profit’ – out of work again. So once again, I want to ask the Council of State: is it not remarkable, or strange, that a Ministry of Labour does not assess whether such a proposal on the state budget affects the line of work or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6191	I believe there are undocumented claims here that changing this deduction has a major impact on participation in the working life of these groups. We have to remember that we're increasing the minimum tax deduction, which means that those with low incomes get better out of this. They'll get a checkbook. What we do in concrete terms is to use a deduction that we have today – which both user organisations and health and tax authorities agree not to function well, does not function specifically – and turns it into a targeted investment, related to the areas where the deduction covers in particular. I don't repeat myself by saying who, but this is a more targeted way of spending public money, which we collectively believe is good, also in relation to the overall picture of getting people to work. In fact, I disagree with the representative that we should not look at the whole budget when we look at whether the budget as such is helping to get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6198	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6201	The government has, as we have just heard, presented a strategy to get disabled people into work. We in the Right would like to welcome it, because we have long called for it, and our strategy – which was presented a year ago – could have helped many, if not the government parties had voted the measures down here in the Chamber. So now it looks like the government is giving with one hand and taking with the other. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Council of State quite specifically: is the removal of the tax deduction part of the government's employment strategy, and will it build up under it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6208	It is only again to stress that this is a special deduction relating to certain types of disease expenditure. We can probably discuss whether this works well or not, but everything we know – including those affected, health authorities and tax authorities, etc. – shows that this does not work well targeted in relation to the groups you actually want to benefit from. Then you put this around, and you do it together with the users to target this towards more direct grants, instead of giving an unsocial tax deduction, which is also given to those who make a lot of money. Then we put forward a very concrete, targeted strategy to get people with disabilities into work: 500 sites for action for this group, 25 million. Strengthened by the organisation grant, 40 new Nav people working around the country and following up this strategy, and increased subsidies to the transport system. It's concrete to get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6215	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6218	It is interesting to note that the Council of State says that she does not share the assumptions of Røe Isaksen. But then there are many chronically ill and disabled people who have entered the labour market who have sickness costs of over $100,000. A lot of this goes to medicine, and a lot goes to transportation. Removing the special deduction will result in a tax tightening of over NOK 28 000 once the special deduction proposed by the government has been phased out. It could mean that this is – as a disabled person himself said to me – the tua that overturns the big load, and you feel in many ways driven back to disability because you can no longer afford to take these costs. It no longer pays to be at work, you want more by just taking disability benefits. So the Council of State says that this has not been properly assessed. On what basis can she then reject what comes from the representative of the Right in relation to those assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6227	I record that instead of looking at the good things you do in that job strategy – and I know that this is not how the policy works – you try to talk it down, because you say you want to do something else that can have meaning. I think it is clear that we have also strengthened the transport service for disabled people in this budget, precisely so that those who are now going into this job strategy will also have access to the good it is, and be covered in their work and education trips. That arrangement is already in place today. So today, the applicants are getting support for this. So I just emphasize again that we can discuss as long as we want how we're going to spend public money, but we're concerned that they should be targeted at those who need it the most, and not have a deduction in this way, which also benefits those who have a lot of money. I stress that this has also been done in cooperation with the user organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6234	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6237	Being at work, being allowed to work is important to man, being allowed to have the network, getting up in the morning, getting out of poverty – poverty that is often the consequence when you are not at work. That's why it's so important that we implement a policy that actually helps people get back to work, or helps them to keep working. What we're discussing now is a deduction that's for those who work, which makes it perhaps cheaper for them to come back to work, or that it's possible to get back to work. So the Council of State says there are 'undocumented claims'. I'm going to say that it's the government that's carrying the burden of proof. If we're going to remove a deduction from just keeping people in work, then the government has to sit on the documentation. But I registered that the Minister of Finance said it was a good idea. Is it such that the government is pursuing a policy that is well-intentioned but is not documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6244	I think you can assume that the government always conducts a policy that is both good, that really works and that is well documented. I believe that in this case it is therefore a question of sickness costs. The question is how to use the funds we use today to cover the costs. So you know that the system doesn't work well today. I think we can agree on that. Then we do something – yes, we put the system back on, and we look at: What groups are the ones that we especially see benefit from that system, and that should benefit from it? And then we target the arrangement for them. We're doing that together with presenting a job strategy. In fact, it is a policy that helps people get to work. So I want to stress, when I now have the opportunity to do that, that getting people far away from work into work is a big challenge. The job strategy is a very important tool, but this also requires employers, not least, to open their doors to this group of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6253	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6257	My question also goes to Minister of Labour Bjurstrøm. Norway is on the verge of social security. We top up the statistics on sick leave and the number of people on disability. There are 1.5 million people in social security in Norway today. But the biggest challenge is that more than 600 000 people in pre-employment are out of work. There is particular reason to be concerned about the increase in the number of young people who have suffered. There is also a reason to ask questions about whether everything is right, when we see that more and more people are doing so, even though the health status of the population in general is getting better. Including more people in the labour market is about helping people with disabilities. As the Council of State mentioned in its previous reply, in this way the government's job strategy becomes very important to this group, but also to get the 220 000 people with reduced working capacity back in working life, and the majority of them want it. Nav's point was to create a system that helped more people out of work. Then it is alarming when the Nav Director makes the following statement to the Daily Newspaper on June 24th this year: ‘Every year, the number of people who need help to get to work is increasing. However, the number of response sites has almost been on site for the last 5 years.’ Nav now calls for the government to put forward a stepping-up plan ‘to prevent undue misappropriation in the future’. The government has entered a social security budget and not a budget for work. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State get Norway down from the social security summit, when it takes away the tools they just need in that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6275	There were a lot of questions here. First of all, I must say that this is not a budget for social security, this is a budget for work. This is a budget for securing Norwegian jobs, and it is one of the most important things we can do to get the non-employment groups into the labour market. If there's a lot of time off, it's even longer for someone who's not an A4 worker. It's absolutely crucial. Then we have to have a little bit of order when we talk about this, because 300,000 are on disability. A very, very large proportion of them are actually older workers. Then I'm worried about – and I've done it clearly many times – that you have an increase in the number of young people who are disabled. Now it's actually not like there's a lot of young people out of work, but the increase has been great, and you can also see it within the group that gets work clearance. That is why I have been very clear to Nav that we should now give young people priority to action, etc. I've been clear to Nav that I want a closer look at who these young people are. We know that very much is due to mental disorders. There we have a huge challenge in Norway and in many other countries because there is an increase in mental illness among young people. There are no simple answers to this, but we must address that. One of the things we're doing now is investing in the job strategy, which is targeted at young people under the age of 30. In the current budget, the amount of action in Norway has increased by 1 000 places for those with reduced working capacity. Then we can always wish for more areas of action. I think we have to make a concrete assessment all the time of how we spend our money as best we can to get people to work. I think that increasing the amount of action is right. But at the same time, we also know that there are questions about how well this works. Now we get a sample that delivers its report in December. On the basis of that, I'm going to go further into this to see if we need to do some rearrangements. But just increasing the number of action places I don't think is the way to go to get more young people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6288	I think there are some people about the job strategy for the disabled, but we have experienced in these six years of red-green government that the proportion of people with disabilities in work has fallen almost year after year. Then it's important that we do something about it. But the focus of my question was the 220 000 people with reduced working capacity who also need help. I think it is a serious signal when Nav is so clear about the need for action places. We're getting an increase of 1,000 places to the disabled group, says the Council of State. Today, however, we only have 54,000 response sites. We know that the level in 2006 was more than 61 000 such jobs. So my question is, is the Council of State agreeing with Nav that we need an escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6295	I have to stress that the number 220,000 does not mean that 220,000 will have action places. Many of them are on or are going on different types of health-related schemes. Many of them are going to school. A lot of them have to go to work. Nor is it the case that 56 000 intervention sites mean that 56 000 people per year are taking action, because there is a steady flow of people through the action sites. Then I repeat to myself: we have some of the highest level of action that you have had, and we are now increasing it for the next year by 1,000 places. So I think we're always going to evaluate how we use public money. I’ve been very clear, including to Nav, that it’s not that one action area in the action industry – or what you want to call it – is one person into permanent work. It is my job all the time to make sure that we spend the money on what I think is a wise way. So there's a lot of work going on among the action organisers. I mean, we're now on a high level. And then we can always evaluate a higher level, but the most important thing for me now, because we get that sample, is to evaluate how we collectively are going to use the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6302	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6305	The starting point for the question was that we are the world champion of social security. It worries the Council of State, I know that very well. That's why the Christian People's Party has had a special focus on how we can help those people who are on the way to being dissatisfied. When the Council of State says it's a budget for work, it might be that it's a budget to keep the people who are at work inside, and that's important. But we need a much stronger focus on the people who are falling out. Government's failing. My party leader refers to 2006. Then there were almost two thirds of the people on the way out, who were in the action area. Now less than half is there. If only half of the cancer patients who wanted treatment had received it, it would have become rhyme-rich. But instead of getting the experience, skills and education they need to succeed in working life, let these people go to social security. And businesses say an average of 900 days. It's not sure it's that long. But the longer one waits before they get the help, the less chance it is of getting them into work, and the more chance it is of getting more disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6314	I just underline once again that the most important thing we can do to ensure that people who are outside the labour market are going to enter the labour market is to ensure a high level of employment. We also know that there are those who have problems in their working life, who fall out as soon as unemployment increases, so this is very important. Then we have to have a sober relationship with the numbers. 220000 does not mean that 220000 will be in action. There is a lot of other things they need to do than take action. It is therefore not the case that they should fill up 220 000 sites for action – and I do not think that is what Ropstad means either. I think we have a high level, and then you can always discuss whether it should be higher. To the extent that there was a higher proportion of those with reduced working capacity on measures in 2006: yes, there were many with limited disability pensions. We had not then introduced the Nav reform. Now we have introduced the Nav reform, and we are going to get people to work. And then we beat them all up and gave them redundancy money. You can't expect a very short time after it's done to get all of those people into work. This is a long-term work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6323	Vigdis Giltun - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6326	I believe that the government's policy in this area is somewhat coherent. The effort to prevent more people from falling out of work is very poor. It is cut in the aid scheme despite the fact that new and appropriate tools are still coming. They have removed special deductions for high disease costs, which were mentioned earlier, and there has also been a sharp decline in the allocation of large social security vehicles. Although they change it for them under the age of 18, a strict allocation still applies to them over the age of 18. Despite promises from all the parties, there is no money for new service dogs in this year's budget, despite the fact that we know that seven to ten dogs go out into retirement, that is, out of service because of age. For users, this means that they need to reduce their job opportunities or leave the workplace — and these are users who have entered the job because of the dogs — or that they are much more in need of assistance. What does the Council of State think about it, and can she now give a signal to these users that they can still get dogs when they go into retirement, so they can keep on working?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6333	I want to say one thing now that is a little important, because everyone is now discussing the government's policy relating to how to operate – I might say – various types of repair arrangements. One of the most important things to do is to pursue good prevention policies so that people do not get out of work. There I think we're doing a lot of important things. The most important thing is to ensure that you do not fall away from high school. That's the biggest reason why you get a disability pension. The Health Director has said that the biggest ticket to the disability scheme is that you do not complete further training. Secondary school, care and work related to psychiatry is one of the most important things before we get to where we have to start repairing. That's where the government does a lot. So I believe that what we have put forward, both in terms of the employment strategy and increasing by 1000 action places, are important things to get more people to work. But most importantly, we strengthen the budget so that we keep the jobs in Norway. A pilot project with a service dog has received 5 million. kr in year. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6342	So it's time. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6348	In order to reduce the number of people on disability pension and disability benefit, it is important that they pay to work. The first contribution is, of course, taxation policy. The government's contribution to this budget is that someone gets a little tax relief. We're very much in favour of that. That's very good. On the other hand, others get – if you go from 50 pst. to 100 pst. position – a fiscal tightening with the budget of this government. It's a bad policy. The second is that in Norway we have a collusion of different ownership regimes that partially strike each other in half. If you look at the relationship between, for example: Municipalities, housing support schemes and child allowances are such that the various parts of the policy, the policy of interaction, the line of work, etc., are not attached. In other words, there is a need to clean up the self-employment systems in Norway — including the incentive systems to pay off. I wonder if the Council of State, in order to reduce disability benefits, will be involved in a clean-up and review of these systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6355	I ask for respect for the fact that we are now moving far away from what is my responsibility – talking about self-promotion schemes and all the different arrangements we have. I can come back to the representative in writing, if necessary, as to how the government views the need to go through various self-promotion arrangements. What matters to me in this context is that we should not talk like we have a social security fund in Norway. I fully agree that we need to work all the time to reduce the share of disability. We have also submitted a false report which we hope will be dealt with during this autumn. There we say that you should be able to combine work and social security to a much greater extent, which I know the representative of Red Isaac is also concerned about, and which I think will be a very important contribution. Then we also work very well now with the IA work to reduce sick leave. I think we're going to be busy all the time, because we see that it's been a little bit of an increase, but it's doing a good job. It's one of the most important things for the transition to disability. I believe that we are doing a great deal with this, but I agree that we should always have tightened our searchlight on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6364	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6367	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. In the 2012 national budget, a figure on page 95 shows that CO2 emissions rose to 2.5 million tonnes, or 4.8 p.p., from 2009 to 2010. Emissions are described in the same table to increase an additional 3,8 million tonnes by 2020. I have not been able to identify any proposal in the current state budget that will reduce emissions in Norway, in fact, on the contrary. Therefore, my question to the Minister for the Environment becomes very simple: Is the Minister for the Environment proud and satisfied to present a budget that will increase greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 7 pst. towards 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6377	I think it's important that we start by having the main picture clear on this very central question. The main picture is that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway have remained roughly the same throughout the period 1990–2011. Conjunctures have gone up and down, for example. drastic reduction in the financial crisis, and then it has come back, albeit not quite to the same level after the financial crisis. The positive thing about this is that we have succeeded in a total decoupling of economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions, because in the same period we have greatly doubled the Norwegian gross domestic product. So there is a fundamental decoupling between economic growth and greenhouse gas emissions. The aim is not to disconnect but to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A series of measures have been taken. The debate we just had about fuel taxes is about exactly that. We have significantly reduced emissions from new cars in Norway. When the government in which the left was in took over, the limit was set to approx. 170 grams per car, now it's 130 grams. So it's a drastic reduction in CO2 emissions from new cars. There has also been a serious increase in the budgets of Enova, for public transport and for the railways. So much has happened. At the same time, it's clear that most of it remains. Most of it will be related to the climate communication that we are presenting in early 2012. Then we're going to go through the tools in all areas. The hardest and biggest is going to apply to oil and gas, because that's where we have the greatest increase. Then we have a decline in transport and industry. That decline just has to be a lot, a lot bigger. I invite the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right – also the Advance Party – to a great deal to see how we can jointly achieve the national goal of 20 pst. home reductions, 30 pst. total reductions, in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6389	We can deal with Enova, because it might seem that this year's government budget is warning Enova in the revised national budget for next year. The background is green certificates, which are now taking over the renewable energy deployment support mechanisms. But we know that there's an enormous potential out there for just energy efficiency. We know that there is a excruciating need for funds to support the development of immature renewable technologies. So does the Minister for the Environment agree with the Left that Enova should maintain its support even after revision in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6394	The representative knows very well that she is asking questions about the responsibilities of another State Council. Let me just say about this: it's natural that you see Enova and green certificates in context, because they're going to meet some of the same needs. For example, Enova grants money for wind power, while wind power is to be covered by green certificates, so it has to be seen in a context, but there is a need for an overall greater effort. The most affordable and environmentally friendly way of extracting new energy is energy saving. There are also environmental impacts of hydropower and wind power, which are the two forms of energy that we will get with green certificates. I'm also worried about some of those environmental impacts. In terms of energy saving and energy saving, I am not aware of any negative environmental impact. It's also often very good economics. But because of conservatism and many other things, we can't take that potential out. There Enova has a fantastic role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6399	There are three follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6402	To reach the major climate commitments also in national policies – and not only as world champions outside the country – means that not only is Solheim the Minister for the Environment, but also many other ministers have important grips. This summer, this has been a bit confusing because we have seen that we have an oil and energy minister – who is an important environmental protection minister – who has openly argued with the Minister of Environment about Mongstad, about whether the environmental movement is a threat to the environment or negative for the environment, about coal-fired power stations in China and about coal mines at Svalbard. Now it's the first question-tretime after a bit of a confusing summer, so I guess we could use the opportunity to ask, "Who is the government's policy?" Is that Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe, or is it Minister of Environmental Protection Erik Solheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6409	It will hardly surprise the representative when I say that it is both Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe and Environment Minister Erik Solheim. We also agree on an amazing amount, but on some points there is disagreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment. Let me say that I think it's just a taste of the disagreement that the representative Skei Grande will have to experience when she is going to cooperate with the Progress Party on an advanced and forward-looking climate policy in Norway. But that there are tensions at some of these points is institutionalized between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy because we care for different interests. Otherwise, I am very pleased that Skei Grande is now saying that Norway is the world champion in the field of the environment. It's not a bad thing. The reductions we achieve through our cooperation with Brazil, for example, are: 10 times all Norwegian emissions in total per year. So let's not in Stortinget talk down what Norway is doing internationally. We get to much, much more internationally than we can ever dream of in Norway. Then we have to – among other things. for our international credibility — do a lot in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6416	Oskar J. Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6420	As others call it, government is very cracking in climate issues. And we've got a summer behind us that many people have noticed. When it comes to climate action, many are sensible. An additional measure is one of them, and there are also economic incentives toreach them. The government has been very clear on climate change in relation to this with rainforest and rainforest purchases. Betsing is significant, I guess it's a total of 15 billion. kr intended for Brazil and 6 brd. kr to Indonesia. We all know that the forest binds significant amounts of CO2. But the question is, what will be done to secure these forests for the past, so that this is not a costly purchase that lasts only a few years to come, then to be hugged out or otherwise taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6430	The numbers given here are not correct, but I'm not taking the time to correct them. This is in any case a difficult bet, and it is a bet in collaboration with two governments that do their utmost to succeed. The reductions made by Brazil in this area are thus the most important efforts made by individual countries anywhere in the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 70 pst. The seven-year reduction in deforestation is staggering, unique, and we can be very proud to have contributed to it. The President of Indonesia is now saying that they want to focus on the same course. He said at a meeting I was at a week ago that he had promised his daughter that he would use the last three years of his presidential career to protect Indonesia's rainforests. Of course, there is no guarantee that future – let's say – progress party politicians in Indonesia or Brazil will come up with the idea of destroying the rainforest. But national governments have put these countries on a whole new course. It's great for Norway to be part of it, and we're working very well with these two governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6437	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6440	It is good that Norway is active in relation to working with climate abroad, but from the Right we also want to have a more active attitude nationally. We've committed ourselves to that in the climate agreement, and we think it's going slowly nationally. We discussed car charges earlier in the Questionnaire. We have requested a comprehensive review of the taxes and taxes in relation to the car in order to get a more environmentally friendly conversion. We are still waiting for a national climate report. It's been exposed for the third time. Nor has the government started the socio-economical climate action that has been revealed by climate change. We have, together with other opposition parties, proposed it. So my question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State expect young people in Norway to take the climate challenge seriously, when government is so exempted from its national climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6449	In the first answer to Borghild Tenden, I presented a series of measures that the government has put in place. There will be many more in the climate announcement, and let's have a shared effort to solve it. A very important thing to do in the meantime is — to follow an international principle, in English — ‘Do no harm’, do not do harm in the meantime. That kind of damage, for example. can do, is reject pricing schemes in the meantime, or expand gas power plants in Freina or in Finnmark without cleaning – a number of such proposals that we have actually received quite a number of in Stortinget in recent years. So let's in the meantime, while we're waiting for the climate announcement, don't hurt. Let me finally say, let's not talk down international measures. International action is the most important in this area. But they need to be complemented by national measures, because unless a small, advanced, rich economy such as Norway can demonstrate that it is possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with us too, we have no chance of helping convince the rest of the world. But it must not mean that we are talking as if what Norway is doing out in the world is of minor importance. It is of fundamental importance and greater importance than anything we can do in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6456	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6459	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. The issue has been addressed in this questionnaire earlier today, but the reality is that since 2005 and up to now, there have been 47 000 more year-olds who have passed away because of an increase in health-related expenditure on the social security budget. Today, with the government budget to which the government refers, it is said that there are 550 000 annual works that are lost because of health-related benefits. Let me make it very clear that those who are too sick to participate in the labour market should not, of course, be pushed into the labour market. That's what the Progress Party wants to be ready for. At the same time, I meet many times a week in person, and get calls from, people who want to get into work, people who are chronically ill or have a disability and are offered disability benefits, who say: I don't want disability benefits, I want to get into work. Then we see that in 2010, the government reduced the number of action sites by over 7,000. The 2012 budget chooses to continue the low share and to keep the decline at the level of last year. We know that people are waiting for more than 900 days to enter an action site, and the chance is then very great that you will never get that action site, but rather be transferred to disability. This concerns the Progress Party, and I hope that it also concerns the Council of State. My questions to the Council of State are: Has today's government given up the fight to get the weak back to work? And does it feel that labour market measures are not a proper and effective tool for success?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6470	As the representative himself says, this has already been affected, and I repeat to the extent that: when you talk about 220,000 people with disabilities – you could have talked about 170,000 people who are on redundancy pay – it is not that all the people who are not supposed to have, benefit from, or should be given action, just so it has been said. There are many other offers that can apply to them. Then, in the 2012 budget, this government has proposed an increase of 1000 action places for those with reduced working capacity. When Robert Eriksson gets us to take this down, it's because we're doing a conversion for those who have moderate help needs. The availability is low in Norway, and then we take it down, but then we apply it to the groups that need it, and they are those with reduced working capacity. There, we're strengthening by 1,000 places. The whole Nav reform is an important reform to get people out of work at all. It is essential that we now have more and more direction towards it in the Nav work, because at first we have had to focus a lot on working with the benefits. Now you see that things are going better, the processing time goes down, and now you're using more and more resources to work to get people to work. But there's one very fundamental thing: I'm actually calling for something different from the opposition than just action spaces. I think it's a little sparing that the only thing you talk about all the time is action spaces. Working life must open its doors. Where is the question of what happens to people who have had places of action? The most important thing for us is that this is sustainable over time, that people come out for action, and then you get into work. Then the labour market must open its doors, we must challenge the social partners together. In the end, 900 days is the wrong number. I hope we can stop talking in 900 days. These are people who go on sick pay first, and then they do all the different things before they get to action. If you include all of this, then it could be 900 days is a right number. But I don’t think it’s right to include the sick pay period – those waiting for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6483	There is little doubt that the number of response sites has been reduced from 2010 to 2011 and that it has been further reduced. We had over 78 000 action posts in 2010, in the original budget, and now it's added up to 71 200. 71 200 is a lower number than 78 000 -- we don't have to discuss whether the number is lower or higher, it's been reduced. At the same time, I agree that labour needs to be challenged to accept labour. But the most important thing we can do is to qualify that workforce, so that you have the necessary skills that are demanded by the business community. The labour market measures and the labour market enterprises are an important tool to qualify the labour force to return to work. Does not the Council of State fear that the low level of intervention in areas leads to increased disability benefits, as pointed out by the management companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6492	I come back to this with action places: yes, you had a higher level in 2010, and then you also had a much higher level in view of those who had so-called moderate needs, because then you were afraid of unemployment. Now, average unemployment is lower than in the last 20 years, and that's why you've been taking those places down. But we're strengthening those within the group that Robert Eriksson is occupying with 1,000 action sites. In addition, we present a concrete, well-worked plan full of measures to get young people with disabilities into work. Then I repeat myself, but I think it's very important: I miss a good debate on how we're actually going to get vulnerable groups to work. I'm not getting that debate with the opposition, I'm just hearing about more action places. I had a good discussion with Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who is not even here, related to an interview about how the action areas work. That's what I'm concerned about. It's very good, but just blindly increasing that proportion, I think it's wrong before we see how this works in the big investigation that we, among other things, are. will receive in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6499	There will be follow-up questions – first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6503	I'm noticing that there's a change of strategy that's been going on a lot on young people under the age of 30, and especially those with mental disorders. It is good that it bets on that group, but it is not good that it goes at the expense of them with other types of disabilities such as PRM, those with impaired vision and hearing, and also those with developmental disabilities. It's moving around in the budget, but it's too little extra. In the case of those with developmental disabilities, 8 000 to 10 000 permanent job vacancies are needed. There was no follow-up to that group after the HVPU reform, so there is no need to reduce the number of places, as was done a few years ago. It could have been full bet and twisted over to those who are actually waiting. Then there is also very poor predictability in this budget for the companies that offer this, and I cannot understand that it can improve the quality of the offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6508	The point is that this job strategy has no diagnostic approach, but it has an approach related to young people. I have explained this well with the user organisations, and the point is that we have had a steady level of disabled people entering work in Norway, with changing governments, with changing business cycles. We have to do something about that. So I can say that now I'm going to sort out all of the 78 000. I don't believe I can do that. The representative doesn't think I can do it either. That's why we're focused this time. We're focused on one group, and I'm going to be so honest and say that we target a group that I think has a long professional life ahead of them, and that I think we can succeed in getting into work. This does not mean that people with other types of suffering than mental disorders are not within, absolutely not – I really don't understand where the representative has it from. Because if you have different types of physical damage or reductions, you are absolutely within the framework of that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6515	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6518	It's been nice to hear from State Council Bjurstrøm here earlier today. She has determined that the effect of how many people get out of work is the responsibility of the Council of State, and she pointed out that it is possible to question how well the measures to achieve this work. Then we can clearly agree, then, the Council of State and the Right, that the most important thing is not the number of people on the job, but the number of people you get permanently into the labour market. The Council of State called for the question of what happens to those who have been given places of action. I can enjoy that question coming here. I ask the Council of State whether the Ministry of Labour has an overview of the proportion of those receiving measures, such as (a) going out and staying in the labour market, and (b) remaining there after three to five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6525	It's a very important question, and I've also answered it pretty fundamentally in an interpellation. If we're going to go through all the details of that question, I can actually give the answer I gave in the interpolation. It takes some time, because as I replied at the time, it is very, very difficult to measure all the effects of measures, because there are very different types of measures. Whether there are measures like those that get one out, or whether there are other circumstances, varies greatly between groups. Young people, for example, are doing much better than people aged 40–50, regardless of measures. But we've now started a measurement in Nav – we haven't had that before – where we're going to look: where are people after six months? Where are people after a year? Where are people after one and a half and two years? I fully agree with the representative: just talking about volume in action areas and not where people come in afterwards is bad policy. So I'm going to promise to come back with those numbers when we've picked up numbers over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6532	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6535	That's sometimes I think attack is the best defense. For the Council of State is clearly frustrated, and she becomes very aggressive towards the opposition. At least I would say that on the part of the Christian People's Party, our desire, our goal, is always to be constructive in the debate on how to get more people back to work and keep them at work. What the Christian People's Party has done is actually to listen to the best adviser the council has, namely Nav himself. Interestingly, the Council of State will neither listen to its best advisers nor to the opposition at all, when she concludes as bastant as she does. She refers to the investigation that will come, and into which the Christian People's Party will go thoroughly. We also want to spend the money and resources as best we can to help people get back. When she concludes with regard to e.g. The financing model of labour market enterprises now and does not wait for the next one surprises me. But what's most eye-catching is that she doesn't listen to Nav, who so clearly says they need more resources to clear up people and more resources to help them back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6544	I listen to everyone in these questions, because I totally agree; we're all very busy getting people to work. It's a big and complex problem. Many of the 220 000 we're talking about may never be going back to work – to be honest with that too. They may need to be in a good and safe social security. The systems have to be good, and there's something Nav needs to get better at: to see who it is we're really going to spend our resources on -- not to give up people, because we're not going to plague people, it's important. Therefore, Nav must have resources, and therefore Nav has also been given increased resources evenly over. This year they'll get 420 million. kr, e.g. 200 million. kr to operate an old ICT system, which is important to get resources released so Nav can take care of people. Then I should not have said that I do not believe that further action may be needed. I entirely agree that it is. That is why we are also increasing the measures by 1 000. It would have been inconsistent if we hadn't. It may be a good idea to increase by more, but I think you should also always focus on how to spend that money the best. Then it's a total budget. I'll be so honest and say it, and then what we think is right to do on this occasion, given that the budget is... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6555	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6567	There will be no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6574	The question is as follows: ‘At the NRK Ostlandssendenden, it was found that Follobanen, Oslo–Ski, will be delayed for 2-3 years. The reason seems to be that the railway works are to undertake a new trasé east of Oslo S due to historical qualities in the construction of the area. Since these areas have been in the area since the Middle Ages, of which the name Middle Ages city/park, what new conditions have emerged that have not been taken into account when setting the original timetable for this route?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6583	New double tracks between Oslo and Ski, also known as Follobanen, are without comparison the largest transport project in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. With the expansion of Folloban, the four-track strategy within the central Oslo area will be completed on the main parts of the three main corridors. New double tracks on the route will provide a significantly better and more reliable train offer, due to both increased capacity and reduced travel time. Folloban is a particularly demanding project to plan, not least the introduction of the new path towards Oslo S through Medieval Park and Memory Park. This is an area of great cultural historical value. In addition, housing, buildings, various installations under the Ekebergåsen, etc. must be taken into account. Work on the programme and its impact has assessed a wide range of solutions. The importance of the capacity of Oslo S, the potential to reach the continuous tracks in the Oslo tunnel and the safety and punctuality of train traffic. The impact report sent on the hearing in the spring of 2011 provided two different options for the introduction of Follobanen to Oslo S. Both involve laying today's Eastfold Railway and concluding Follobane in the so-called Cliff. The resulting Follobane was proposed in today's Eastfold Railway pit in an east alternative through the Gamleby tomblund or in a west alternative through the Bust road along the Mosseweg. In the hearings held in June of this year, the national antiquities declared that both alternatives would involve extensive conflicts with cultural memories of great national value. There is the greatest conflict with the eastern option through the Gamleby tomb. Therefore, the Riksantikvaren takes a stand for formally contradicting the fact that the concern for cultural memory is not adequately represented. In further planning, the Railway Agency, in dialogue with the National Antiquities Product, wants to see if it is possible to reduce the negative consequences. The railway works assesses, inter alia: whether it may be technically possible to also pass the outgoing Follobane through the Cliff. Such a solution may be problematic and challenging, among other things. Medieval park, not least in construction time. The railway works are now looking specifically at the measures that can be put in place to reduce the interference. Of course, for those travelling in this corridor, it is not beneficial that the project might be delayed for up to one year for this reason. However, it is more important to find the best plan solution for such a large project. As I understand it, the Railway Agency uses the highest level of competence in the development of Follobanen to find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6605	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's good that the council here says that it might just be a year late. We'll follow that closely, because this is a very important distance. It is true that several government councils have gone high on the field in the election campaign. Then it becomes a little strange that you come after the election and alerting postponements, because you have always known that this is a very demanding area. The same applies to the red-green announced train revolution in 2012, which is also postponed indefinitely. It was also announced before the elections, in 2009. Why is it that you bombastically go into election campaigns and promise things, and then you come sneaking after election with postponements? Where is the error? Is it the case that the Railway Agency is doing too bad a job and does not inform the State Council well enough, so that new information can be obtained at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6612	Finally, as regards the new base route model: it was clarified last year that there was probably much more investment than envisaged. So it's not like that model is now postponed in an indefinite time. On the contrary, we have announced that we will be late in the 2012 budget with a new date. I expect that Borghild Tenden has come to realize that the new base route model is now fixed until December 2014. A substantial amount of money has been allocated to the 2012 budget for the investment to be made in order to be on track to it. In addition, I must point out that in two to three years' time, the quotation from the Eastern Consignment, I distance myself. I think it must be wise to take the months extra, which the Railway Agency is now asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6619	I thank the Council again for the answer. I want to go further just with the intercity triangle, of which this path is part. Several political parties believe that the intercity triangle should be up and running by 2025. However, the NHO has calculated that at the pace we have today, it will not be time to go until early 2046. Is the Council of State comfortable with this, or will she look at alternative funding, such as: a proposal for a representative promoted by the Left in this Chamber, or 'Gullsvilla', as Gudleiv Forr wrote in a comment in the Monday Newspaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6626	It's nice that there's a lot of commitment to getting this path in place, and that this is a discussion of different funding arrangements to get it done. My advice to Borghild Tenden will be not to stick to these statements in 2040. I don't, and she shouldn't. The project leader of the Railway Agency has stated that if we start in 2014 and have a construction time of six to seven years, Follobanen will be finished in 2019 or 2020. We're going to come back with time fixing on the other sections and on the entire intercity triangle in connection with a new national transport plan. We're currently plotting distance after distance in place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6635	The question is: ‘Through several written questions, I have challenged the Council of State to take action to secure the E16 between the County of Sergey and Voss in Hordaland. Of the 14 fatal accidents on the roads in Hordaland in the first nine months of the year, six have occurred on this road section. Restrictive measures have been announced a year ago. One of the safest measures against meeting accidents has been notified after 2018. From the opening 20 years ago, the E16 on this route has become a deadly road. Can the Council of State clarify how this route is to be effectively secured in the short term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6644	The State Road Service reports that it has our 53 deadlocks on the route since 1991. A negative trend at the beginning of the 1990s was halted after intensive traffic monitoring by the police and the implementation of controls and campaigns as well as physical measures. There has now been a new negative development in the number of deadlocks. So far in 2011, as of October 7, 2011, there have been five o'clocks that have killed six people in total. The number of meeting times has been increasing. I'm very serious about this situation. We see a trend that needs to be reversed as soon as possible. As explained in my answer to written question No. 1784, by the representative of Sortevik in August 2011, in March 2011 a working group was set up to look at possible immediate measures on the Voss–Bergen route. The report on the priority list of immediate actions shall be finalised in November 2011. Current measures in the short term will include speed reductions, promotions and controls in cooperation between the State Road Service and the police, signage, liming/whitewashing of tunnels, reinforced centre markings, organisation for bypassing, establishment of stop and parking pockets, rehabilitation of road-hazardous runs, improvement of road-hazardous bus pockets, etc. Today we write October 12. The working group presented its proposals in November. This is as far as I can tell when there are immediate actions on the E16. As this list tells us, there are many important immediate measures that will help to reduce traffic accidents in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6653	Thanks for the answer. It is good that something is started or will be started in a short time. After answering written questions, the state budget has arrived. Its name is on page 40, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘Of those who are killed or seriously injured on the national road network, 45 pst is due. accidents at meetings. Meeting accidents are clearly dominant on high-traffic roads outside congested struts which have neither mid-deck nor reinforced mid-deck markings.» The analysis of the road system itself on this route from 1993 to 2010 shows 204 accidents and 21 deaths and that there are most meeting accidents among the serious accidents. The government's budget, which has now arrived, provides 17 km of new employment during 2012. E16 Tensionereid–Voss is just 70 km long. Will any of these 17 km come on this route in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6667	The government's budget means 53 km with a total of mid-measures: 17 km with two-three-way mid-tracks, 11 km on four-field roads and 25 km with additional mid-range measures. The immediate measures mentioned in the E16 are mid-term measures. Then we have also mentioned in the budget that we are now considering pitfalls on existing highways with a width down to 10 meters after specific assessment and whether the accident situation warrants it. It can open up for the establishment of E16 mid pulleys on the Voss-Bulken section and possibly on a few shorter distances between Voss and Zungereid, and rather than 2016. For the whole of E16, Voss-Trengereid does not have 10 meters of road width today. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6674	I am sure that the Council of State fully shares the desire to have more efficient traffic protection and also shares my impatience. Again, with reference to the State budget on page 46 on objectives and priorities, it states: «Straights of many and serious accidents will be followed up in particular.» It is true that the Council of State points out that there is also a process for getting new demand criteria to build pitfalls. The accident situation on this route is special. I think we have now clarified that through two laps, and the numbers that have been shown through them. What specific and concrete measures will now be taken? Would you like to use that opening, which a new regulatory framework can provide in general, to also do something specific to put in place pitfalls on this route, at least before 2018, but also perhaps during 2012, 2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6686	Yes, I share Blackevik's concerns about getting something done on unclosed routes. That's also because we've invested as heavily as we have on road safety measures. In addition, a whole series of other measures, including: responses to the driver, and we are now seeing a positive trend on a national basis when it comes to road safety. Let me say that when it applies to E16 between Voss and Hngereid, that distance does not have a width of 10 meters today. It is necessary to extend the road due to steep side terrain, busses, multiple runs and crossings, tunnels and watercourses. It is therefore necessary to assess the construction of a midway network in the context of the national transport plan 2014-2023 and the following action programme. However, in the short term, enhanced mid-pointing can be an effective measure. That we're giving this distance special attention, I think Sortevik is aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6697	‘When taxi owners pass 70 years, they lose the rights and the right to operate their business. For many older drivers who are healthy and healthy, this is perceived as discrimination. Will the Council of State ensure that the legislation is reformed so that they can continue to be able to own and operate until they reach the age of 75?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6704	Three aspects are important in this context: The one thing is the ability to run to one is 75 years for a fresh and fast taxi driver who wants it. The second is recruitment to an industry that is very important to last. The third is to show flexibility, to take care of an industry that is different in different parts of the country. Then I think we have a good balance today. First, the running seat requirement has been changed so that a taxi driver can run until he is 75 years old. Secondly, we have an upper age limit of 70 in order to have taxi licenses. It's because the permissions are proof of need. The hope of a circulation of permissions is that they will be brightly lit after a certain period of time. It is again helpful to maintain the recruitment of drivers in the taxi industry. And it's also important to stress that here's the possibility of exemption in the areas where it's relevant. I must also stress that the professional transport law was amended two years ago in Stortinget. That's where we find these equations. I think that after two years of new law with the balances that were then made – in this field, the taxi industry – it is too early to make any assessment when it comes to permits and age. But I just want to report that in a short time we are presenting a hearing memo that proposes a change in other areas for the taxi industry in the Transport Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6717	We were very pleased with the changes that were made two years ago in the Transport Act. The progress party was a champion to make changes, and I fully agree that good criteria must be met. But it's a little special that this particular profession, these people who own their own business, are no longer allowed to run their business when they're 70 years old, because they're thus refused to do so. You don't say to a shipowner or to someone who owns a store or other business, that now you've grown so old that you're not allowed to run your business anymore. For many of those who are so old, who are healthy and fast and want to be allowed to continue working and being in the profession, it is very special that you are told that you are not allowed to run your business anymore. I hear the council says she's coming up with new changes, but I had really hoped that she would also review these changes, so that this profession can be allowed to run their business in the same way that everyone else in society is allowed to if they're healthy and fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6724	There are certain adjustments to the taxi industry in order to maintain certain considerations. I have had good contact with the taxi industry in preparing the hearing draft. I know that those who are occupied by an industry that trusts both the audience and the government, and they are occupied by an industry that recruits. So what we're looking at now is: Exchange of information between the law enforcement authorities and the tax and tax authorities on the financial and moral requirements of the taxi centre assess the ability of the licence management authority to conduct out-of-control checks on the taxi industry to assess the development of guidelines for testing the licence requirements and the number of central relaxations or exemptions from the driving obligation in a more limited case
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6745	I think it is very good that the Council of State says that she is concerned about trust in the industry and that kind of thing. Now, incidentally, one of those who wants to continue their business is sitting in the gallery and listening to the Council of State. I think he will feel, like a lot of other older people in Norway, that he will be discriminated against when he is not allowed to continue working. In spite of the fact that in this room and everywhere else politicians are talking about people wanting to be allowed to stay longer in the world of work, one group has to refuse to be able to do that. This is a person who has a long competence, who is truly proud of his industry and wants to be allowed to continue in his industry, while the Council of State and this government do not want him to have the opportunity to do so. I really hope that the Council of State will take this back. That's not very many things that apply. But it would be very good if you actually show that you are concerned that people should be allowed to be in the workplace, that they should be allowed to run their business as long as they are healthy and fast and have the opportunity to do so, and want to have that opportunity, because they are engaged in professional pride, occupied with their profession and want to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6752	I understand that for individuals it can be particularly felt to have to surrender their right, and at the same time can run for one who has permission. Let me then stress that I am at least happy that the balance was made two years ago in Ot.prp. No 60 for 2008-2009, where a high limit for running from 70 to 75 years. The thorough discussion that was then made, where one also took into account the importance of recruiting into the industry in view of the future, was done in Ot.prp. No 60. I stick to it and now have the ambition to clean up some other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6763	‘The draft selection inquiry for the E39 Aksdal–Bergen has led to uncertainty as to the objective of involving the project in the NTP roll-out keeps the timetable. The investigation concludes with two alternatives, one of which is not precise as to whether a zero-free solution is being chosen. Can the State Council confirm that there are only suspension-free solutions to be further assessed and that progress does not depend on which option is chosen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6770	The Ministry has given a mandate for the draft valuation of the E39 Aksdal–Bergen. It is clear from the mandate that a free alternative should be included, but it is not a guide that only a free alternative should be considered. The draft evaluation for E39 Aksdal–Bergen has now been sent to hearing and external quality assurance, KS1. It is recommended to proceed with two options, one middle option and one internal option, both of which have a free connection as a target. It is said in the concept evaluation that, in the further planning process, a phased extension of the middle option can be considered, where, for the first time, an abbreviated ferry link is established. The state Road Service is also running a project on the Free E39, focusing on possible technological solutions and societal impacts. This applies, inter alia, to: the crossing of the Bear Fjord in Hordaland. With planned progress, both the quality assurance of the concept evaluation and the project on the free E39 could be an important basis for the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The government shall address the different priorities in the context of the roll-out of the National Transport Plan in spring 2013. My goal is clear: E39 Aksdal–Bergen is to enter the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6781	I have an additional question. Many were pleased when, in September 2009, the Council of State of Navarsete took this initiative and the Minister of Transport followed this up with a letter to the Directorate of Road in March last year. It says you had to keep the time frame to the next NTP. At that time, the impact assessment should have been completed in 2010. Now you didn't. You finished in 2011, so you're already a little late. Therefore, this uncertainty is created. To the issue of ferry freedom or not enough is also some of the uncertainty surrounding it created because relatively centrally located people in the state road system say that the ferry-free solution is the only one that really has to go on. So we're happy that the Council of State calms us down on this issue. It is fine if she can also clarify that the project will be included in the NTP at the next roll.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6790	As Øyvind Halleraker is well aware, the ETAs present their proposal for the National Transport Plan on 29 February 2012 – a date that is easy to think, because there are not so many of them. Then the etats put forward their proposals. Then the proposal is to be heard. This means, among other things: that we will meet with the different municipalities and with many others from the Ministry's side, and that the government will decide on the different priorities of the big business message to be submitted in 2013. That's the outcome. So it is good for me to be able to stress that my goal is clear: E39 Aksdal–Bergen is going into the next transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6797	Thank you for that, and thank you for the answer. It is this uncertainty that now asks whether it is necessary to be so bombastic in the consultation period for the concept selection inquiry, which is 1 November, as there are two main options. One is related to some uncertainty and that technology and professional environments have offered to participate and clarify part of the solutions. In addition, a KS1 work is in progress and will not be available for very long. As a third argument, it is also true that since the last election of new local government and county councils, which may also have an interest in contributing to this consultation round. My last question is whether the Council of State would consider suspending this consultation period, for example: until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6806	It's a difficult balance on the one hand to keep progressing to make sure that we reach the different stages that need to be here, and on the other hand we get the points of view that need to be included. External quality assurance, KS1, is in progress. The schedule for the work has not yet been finalised, but the KVU has been sent to the audience. This is an example that we have already done so that the deadline is set, but there is an agreement here that we can deliver a view and a hearing opinion after the deadline. Then we keep progress in the work, while at the same time we get the points of view that are to [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6813	Then the Council of State must also keep its deadline here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6820	The question to the Minister of Justice is this: ‘In September 2007, the Minister of Justice told the police students that he could guarantee the work of all the police students after completing their education. A newly trained policeman I met in Lillesand in September, has applied for 30 posts throughout the country, as recommended by the Council of State, without results. Experienced officials receive many of the posts for which they are newly trained. More job vacancies are needed. How will the Council of State use the broad consensus of the Stortinge to increase police staff to ensure that new trained police work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6827	First of all, I have to say that I am very happy to have this question, because I believe that I have good news for the questioner. This is a very important field. Now that the Storting agrees with the government's proposal that we triple the number of police high school education, it is absolutely vital that we get all the good policemen we're trained to do. That's good information I get from the Police Directorate, which informs me that on average 94 pst. of the graduates, with the passing of a degree from the Police College in the period 2006–2010, have received a job after graduation. I think it must be of the highest percentages for some professional training we have in Norway. It has to be added to this figure that there is reason to assume that some of the graduates have continued to receive other education, or wanted to get a job outside the police – i.e. the remaining 6 pst. - It's natural. But 94 pst. is a high number. The representative refers in the question to a meeting with a graduate of the Police College from this year's coal, who has not received a job. He went out this summer. The Ministry of Justice receives regular reports from the Directorate of Police on the development of the number of new graduates who have received a job and on vacancies for police officers. As of 7 October 2011, 347 students, graduated from this year's coal, passed the exam. 77 has not passed, and they have to work a little bit more. As of 7 October 2011, 266 — out of the 347 who passed the exam — are registered as police employees, 43 of whom are permanent employees. Otherwise, it can be stated that, as of 15 September, there are 183 available police posts — posts that have been decided upon have been announced, or where they are in the process of being recruited. 22 of these are vacant police officers 1 posts which are the category of posts in which graduates will normally be employed. When we're left with 80 and we have 22 vacancies, it seems like there's a problem, but there's more. When we get experienced people applying for the other jobs, there will be job vacancies at the bottom. So when you are employed in higher positions, there will again be one position of free police officer, so it looks promising this year. Based on the figures above, everything suggests that the situation of the year’s graduates from the Police College does not differ from the previous coals, as referred to above, and thus almost all will be employed in a year. Otherwise, I refer to the draft budget submitted for 2012 on increases in the budget for the recruitment of high school police. Here it is proposed to increase the coverage of the full-year impact of recruiting students who completed in the summer of 2011. Further to the proposal for an increase: it facilitates the offer of jobs to all 552 high school police students who are completed in the summer of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6846	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's great that the numbers are still rising. Although there has been a relatively small increase from 1 July to today, I see that compared to other working groups this is positive. The challenge is that the police students who do not have a police job – that is, nearly 100, and more if they complete the operational approval – feel that it is a breach of promise, because the Council of State was so clear that he could guarantee them a job. What are they going to do in the meantime? Governments indicate that others have changed to other jobs. Yeah, that's because they don't get a job in the police, not because they wanted to do something else. Harald Elias Skibelid, to whom I refer, installs air conditioning and fan rooms, and that's not what he wanted. I meet police students who have a desire to do a community service, have education for it, and am disappointed that they do not get that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6857	I think it's important that we don't create that image that there aren't any police high school students who get a job now, when it's obvious that over the last few years, there's 94 pst. have entered the police payroll. It's very high numbers, and I think I have to say that the remaining 6 pst. has had a deliberate choice to continue training or to take on a job in another sector. We have to accept that. In the case of the current year, I have to say that we are quite well placed to reach the same level, that is. Nearly full employment of police high school students, when we see the number of job vacancies against the number of jobseekers now. So I've said that we also have to do what we can to next year, and that's why we've added 80 million. kr extra until next year in order to be able to hire additional graduates. It's a huge amount, which makes me optimistic for the future. I'm still in the process of doing what we can to get everyone to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6866	Yeah, what's next year? We've probably all seen the table that shows that there's a decrease in the number of policemen per thousand inhabitants. That must be a challenge for the Council of State. It is always easier to deal with your own territory. In the Agder police district, further decommissioning has been announced next year. Right now it has been announced that 15 temporary jobs are suspended. This means that more and more experienced policemen are going to apply for the same positions as the new students are going to apply for. In addition, there are increasing numbers of police students, who the Council of State has boasted about, and who are important, but there is a mismatch between the posts that are now being signaled, and those who are going to apply for these posts. It is becoming increasingly difficult for newly educated people to get a job, and more and more people have lost their jobs, who want to get back into the police. This is not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6873	The figures now presented show that it is not going to be more difficult to get a job. So it's going to be 94 pst. From 2006 to 2010, students have got a job, and then we add additional resources – money and number of jobs – to enable students to apply for jobs. So now we're in a situation where there are 81 students who are not registered in our payroll, and we have over 180 job vacancies. Some of the jobs you will not be able to apply for because you need experience, but you will get excited. I think we should all notice that, and perhaps also spread the happy message, so that those who have not yet got a job continue to apply for a job. I have also said that it is important then – since this investment is large, and it will apply to the whole country – that people not only apply for jobs in Oslo and Akershus, but also choose to apply for jobs elsewhere in the country where there are job vacancies. We haven't given any guarantee that people can get a job where they live. We're training for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-12.ana.ud1444e6880	With this option, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
