ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e104	The representatives Rigmor Andersen Eide and Torfinn Opheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Kari Agerup, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Skovholt Gitmark, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e120	I have the honour to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Ivar Kristiansen, Gunnar Gundersen, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and myself on an annual public corruption report from the country's largest aid organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e125	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e128	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to present two proposals for representatives: on the implementation of judicial control in the collection of traffic data and the strengthening of police resources to combat serious crime by means of digital tools. Changes in the Economial Law on Change in the VAT Act, amendment of § 15-3 Financial Limits for the Tasks Term with Low Turnover
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e140	The representative, Arve Kambe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e143	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Torgeir Dahl and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on a strengthened maritime education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e148	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e164	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e180	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, it is proposed to give rise to a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time, and to give a speaking time of up to 3 minutes to those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e187	The media is in big changes a day. There is a lot going on everywhere, both on the Internet, on TV, on radio and not least in the paper newspapers. Some have predicted the death of paper newspapers in 10-11 years, and it is a prediction that is quite dramatic. Is this a law for the future we are going to debate today, with the rapid development we see in the media? The matter we are about to deal with is a product of a political and bureaucratic desire for greater power, as I see it. You want to set up lists of programmes you want to buy, and you think it is right to show them to the Norwegian population. You want to be involved and influence that kind of purchase. How to do that, and how to adopt it in the Storting, is for me to decide that we should have a good time. It's a commodity we're talking about, and there's a lot of people competing. When the list is set up in Stortinget, you want to be part of the detail board. The media field is important. The distance between actors and political leadership is – not least – also very important. You see today in the Middle East that you're just using the media consciously. Now I don't want to say that we do the same in Norway, but at least you see that they are used, and you should be careful. The freedom of expression is protected in the Constitution – it is captured in that way. It's important that we protect it. Everyone agrees that it is important for a free and independent press to set the agenda and have editorial freedom. Then I don't realize that Stortinget can't give greater freedom even in the field of broadcasting to the editors, who run after this Editorial poster that we have so much faith in. I also believe that the competition authority can do a job in the media, such as ensuring that there is free competition between the media and the other operators in the industry – not as we see in this proposal, which, in my view, goes in the opposite direction. Media surveillance has a stronger role to play. They may overrun most with fines, but the King of State Council — not least — may also overrun both editors and complainants. Several issues dealt with by the Media Regulatory Board are a narrow borderline against the principle of editorial freedom. An example I have is that you use the media surveillance to ban porn and violence on TV. I fully agree that violence and pornography should be banned on television. But at the same time, it is also contrary to Norwegian law. Why do the media authorities use it when it is contrary to Norwegian law? Then there are other actors you can use. Why don't you trust the editors and editors – that they do the job they're set to do, including in the broadcasting? This may lead to suspicions and allegations that political authorities abuse broadcasting legislation to influence the editorial priorities of the media. We have to avoid that for the most part. Then you have advertising and control of it. Yes, NRK is active. But they call it sponsorship. They call it sponsorship of all kinds of programs, and we see it not least now under the World Cup. This should also be included and regulated by the Media Regulatory Board. Perhaps the NRK and the government apparatus want to make use of this misunderstood loophole as sponsorship is, for example.: This program is sponsored by the government. Where do the limits of interpretation go? Yeah, well, you know what the Media Authority and the Department are dealing with. The importance of media pluralism and freedom of expression can be better achieved through increased emphasis on the principles of the Editorial plaque, as we have also pointed out in our proposal. It makes it unnecessary to maintain the media surveillance in today's form, we believe. In the consultation note, the government places great emphasis on the concession and political governance of media policy through concession awards, instead of mitigating the consequences of this undesirable level of policy governance in the field of broadcasting. It is probably so important that the NRC as a public service broadcaster depends on the confidence of the population and that the company appears to be truly independent. Moreover, as long as the bill itself does not describe what the distributor is going to do, it becomes paradoxical that the Media Authority can impose a periodic penalty payment if it has not done anything to it. I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e213	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e216	I agree with the representative Ib Thomsen that it is important for the Editorial plaque, and I believe that the great majority in the Stortinge agrees with that. But I wonder where Ib Thomsen was when he discovered that his favorite program with Ninky Nonken and Plinky Plonken – i.e. Dream Garden – was taken by NRK's program. Then the Editorial poster was not so important anymore, because then he wanted to instruct the Council of State to reintroduce the Dream Garden. Already in connection with the broadcasting message, St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, the majority in Stortinget agreed that media surveillance should have a more independent role in broadcasting. That's what this case is about, precisely that they're now going to have a more independent role. These include: good governance policies and in line with developments in other administrative bodies. However, it is also very important that the Department should have an arm's length distance, not least in the case of media policy. In addition, in the case of the Ministry as the owner of the NRC, the current approach to instructing media surveillance in broadcasting matters is not unproblematic. The purpose of the proposal is that the Ministry should no longer be merely the Board of Appeal. An independent complaint subject shall now be established and shall include, inter alia: in connection with advertising and sponsorship, the prohibition of political advertising, the protection of minor viewers, and not least of what has been a major political debate on, with the Government as a Board of Appeal, in the context of local television and local radio concessions. Independent supervision is important here. But there are also some issues that are obviously in the border between politics and administration, and where the legislation is quite discretionary. It is important here that increased seaworthiness does not affect the democratic control of the supervisory activities of the authorities. Therefore, a safety valve has been proposed to enable the King of State Council to re-approve decisions in the Media Regulatory Authority or the Board of Appeal. It only applies to matters of great fundamental or social interest. I noticed in the comments of the Progress Party that they would wind up the media surveillance and leave the tasks regarding the media diversity, to the Competition Authority. It is precisely the Competition Authority that has been responsible for the diversity of the book industry, Ib Thomsen, that today we have three large publishers with almost all market power. In the case of the bookstores, the Progress Party together with us will go the other way and regulate the market power and introduce a book law. What is it that suggests that not the same thing will happen in the media industry that has happened in the book industry? But maybe the Progress Party thinks it's okay that we're left without competition in the media market, and that all ownership is concentrated around the central eastern region. For us, that's not okay. The Council of State signals in the proposition that it will ensure that the people have access to important sporting events such as the World Championship on Ski and the Olympic Games for the future. It gives the majority of this hall its wholehearted support. We have seen in recent years that there is a sharp increase in the price of viewing rights associated with the major sporting events, and that the large commercial payment channels prize these events so high that public broadcasters do not have the opportunity to participate in that competition. It has also been speculated in the past that, among other things. The NRK does not have the ability to send the next OL. It is therefore important to have the opportunity to list large sporting events. These are great experiences for the whole people, as people have great joy in getting the opportunity to see. This is not particularly true for Norway. These are things that are already happening — in the United Kingdom, in Austria, in Germany, in Ireland and in Italy. But again, I record that the Progress Party in its fanatical resistance to the NRK and the license will sacrifice the Norwegian people's right to watch the World Cup on skis, the Olympics, the World Cup final in football in order to secure the commercial companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e231	For the sake of order, the President would remind us that speaking through the President may be tempting to speak directly to individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e234	It's not going to repeat itself!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e239	The President is absolutely sure that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e242	What this is all about is giving media surveillance a more independent role, and this is a step in the right direction, in the sense that the distance between political power and the supervision of the media is increasing. So I would like to ask myself a little incomprehensible, in fact, to the starting point of the Advance Party for an assessment of this matter. The approach that the government has presented, which the Right will support today, is entirely in line with the approaches that the Right has had in the past to create greater integrity around the Media Authority and around the decision-making processes associated with concessional awards in particular. It's the independence of the broadcasting field that's the main concern here. The debate on this matter seems to me to be slightly different from that: Is there a need for any exceptions? Because one exception related to nationwide concessions has been added. The back margin reflection would suggest that there might not be any reason to exempt them. When the Right nevertheless supports the government's arrangement, it's based on a concrete assessment of what concessions we're talking about, and what's actually the case. So it's related to two radio concessions whose fate is going to come up in a larger context in relation to the digitization of the radio medium, and there's our hope that we won't have to have any concessions at all. Then we get there, this becomes a discussion about the pope's beard, just because the concessions disappear. Then we're left with one concession, and that's the TV 2 concession. It's a new invention in the sense that it's no longer a concession in the meaning of distributing a scarce asset. It's an arrangement that looks more like a privilege, and although it's not exactly a word that we like so well in this context, it's after all that it is. Thus, a commitment has been made by the cable owners to broadcast TV 2 – under given market conditions, correctly – but there is no doubt that what is an advantage for one TV company, which has then been given this, is defined as a concession. It is a rather demanding way into it, and I understand that it is difficult to break contact with the parties to the concession, in the agreement that lies there, and suddenly should move parts of the understanding of this over to another body. In any doubt, we have come to the conclusion that the Ministry's proposal is a very good solution to the practical situation. The second theme that should be the subject of a little more discussion is the question of listing sporting events. There's something right here that's a good idea. We think it is great that central, important national events should be available to everyone without having to cost anything. We had that debate in connection with the broadcaster. That being said, I think it's a pretty important point not to take too much Møller's tran in relation to what expectations you're going to have to have to get to, and I think you're going to have a pretty strategic input not to be too greedy initially. There is, after all, a revenue page of sports organisers in this which is quite significant; we are talking about TV rights that result in large amounts. We know, of course, that when someone is going to have major sporting events in our country, the way is not far from the state in terms of guarantees or grants, or whatever it should be. So it's a question of finding a balance point that makes this manageable. It will be important to coordinate with other countries in relation to how they deal with this, but I also think it would be sensible to go back to the demarcation we thought about in the debate on the broadcaster, where this was linked to a few relatively few central events. Then, in a later article, I will come a little more back to this particular point, and I will also comment more on the question of the Media Authority in relation to the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e257	With regard to the question of the listing of major events and ‘important events’, as it is called in the law, there is a question that the Christian People’s Party is also very concerned about. But that's the way it is, that it's the results we actually achieve in practice that are crucial. It is good to talk about a day that today – the first day of the World Ski Championship – but we actually need to implement it in practice and in the light of the dilemmas that the previous speaker presented, in order to make it important. The Christian People's Party refers to our comments on the matter and waits eagerly for the follow-up of the ministry, and hopes to succeed in implementing it in a good and sensible way. The issue we are dealing with is primarily about legislating a more independent role for the media surveillance in the field of broadcasting. Media policy is about a fragile and important balance between governance and the democratic principles that require editorial freedom and the principle of editorial freedom. The Christian People's Party finds it reassuring that the vast majority of the bodies that made their views known in the hearing were positive in giving the Media Authority a more independent position and in the proposal for a complaint subject to review. There are important fundamental reasons for ensuring the independence of the body supervising the broadcasters in relation to political authorities, in particular in view of the role of the media in the context of criticism and control of the exercise of public power. In addition, we have the Ministry of Culture's ownership role in the NRC, which makes it very important to have an eye on these questions. Against this background, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal presented by the ministry and is behind the majority in the Chamber. I would also like to say that precisely in this landscape where we are to balance editorial freedom and political governance, we will probably never have the demarcations, nor the changes in the laws that we are adopting today, will make this a challenge once and for all, but on the contrary, it is important that we have a lively debate on media policy, and that we find a sensible balance between what should be political responsibility and political governance, and what should be free debate in the media and editorial freedom in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e270	I agree with the latter speaker who said that media policy should not be stoned. There are major changes in the media, and in terms of our objectives of media pluralism, the authorities have an important role to play in contributing to the diversity of opinions in the public domain. To achieve that goal, we still need to look at the law and what kind of instruments we have to achieve it. I am therefore very pleased that there is a broad majority behind all the government's proposals. Both principal considerations and good administrative practice speak for the proposals put forward in this proposition. Media surveillance is currently dealing with many issues relating to the principle of editorial freedom. The media have the task of monitoring and controlling the exercise of public power, i.e. us. Many therefore argue that the media supervisory body should have a high level of independence from political authorities. Therefore, this is not a proposal that contributes to increased concentration of power in the Ministry of Culture, rather on the contrary; it contributes to increased influence on the media. I think that's important, basically and really. The Ministry of Culture owns the NRK and decides on complaints that may involve the NRK. So the handling of such cases in a complaint subject of its own will increase the legitimacy of the review process. In addition, the proposal provides for a better division of labour between the Ministry and professional supervision, and Norway will be given more independent supervision, especially with regard to this implementation. It is in line with other practices in Europe. Then I notice with interest the ‘princes’ attitude of the Advance Party, that I as the Council of State should intervene and secure the Dream Garden, but in the case of the World Cup on skis, competition should prevail freely. It's a strong principle view, and it's fundamentally different from a lot of other countries. The debate on listing important sporting events is not something I've come up with on the Jessheim kitchen table, it's something they do in the United Kingdom, Austria, Finland, Belgium, Italy and Germany. But it's true, as Olemic Thommessen is saying, that this has to be done with a nominal hand. We cannot regulate everything. And it is that sport depends on the income from part of these sporting events. I will shortly send a proposal to the hearing where we are going to review this, and will make suggestions on what kind of important events will be for all of us. National sporting events are some of the things that really bind our nation together. When we grew up, we had one nationwide channel. I'm glad we're not there. But if there's something that binds us together as a nation, that's what's happening in Holmenkollen these days. In its minority proposal, the Progress Party proposes that the media surveillance should be suspended and that the responsibility for ensuring media pluralism be left to the Competition Authority. They believe that media pluralism should be addressed through increased emphasis on the principles of the Editorial plaque and competition law regulation of the media sector under the auspices of the Competition Authority. The proposals of the Progress Party appear to be based on a notion that diversity will come about only by itself if the Editorial plaque is observed and the authorities intervene against distorting conditions contrary to the Competition Act. In my view, this proposal has several problematic aspects. The editor poster regulates the relationship between the editor and the owner. The aim is to ensure editorial independence. Of course, I agree that editorial independence is an important principle. The principle is even given legal protection through the law on editorial freedom in the media. But editorial autonomy is not alone enough to ensure such diversity. Intervention against conduct that restricts competition is of course important. But neither is this alone enough to ensure media pluralism. The proposals of the Progress Party will mean that current legislation in the field of broadcasting will not be enforced. The proposal is both unwise and contrary to international commitments undertaken by Norway. Then I will finally say to the TV 2 agreement, on which the representative from the right was in: today we have no concession attached to TV 2; we have an agreement. Because we have a digital network, there's a lot more that can send than before, when there were constraints. Then you could have a concession. Therefore, this is an agreement that TV 2 has concluded on an independent basis. They could be sent without an agreement with the authorities. I believe that this has a very important cultural policy dimension, because it ensures daily news transmissions, and it ensures some Norwegian television dramas, but that is not the basis for the same regulation in this area since we have digitised. The same will happen in radio, that we will have more diversity and more competition when we get digital radio introduced, a change that the Progress Party also opposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e291	More power for the Media Authority is the main point of the government in this matter, and you have little faith in the editors. But at the same time, the government will have a safety valve – because you won't give up that much power. It is the King of the Council of State who can outrun the Media Regulatory Board, the subject of complaints and even the editors. In matters of ‘princescipal or major societal importance’, the case papers state. That's interesting. What is of principle and great social importance, where the King of the Council of State may overrun the Media Supervision, Editors and Complaints?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e298	After all, it is not the case that the Media Authority and the King of State Council can ultimately oversee the editors in Norway. In today's legislation, we have media surveillance, and in the media, the King of the Government Council is the Board of Appeal, but it is not that we in Norway regulate editorial responsibility in any way. So here, I think the representative sees ghosts at daylight. This proposal will therefore mean that matters relating to the radio concession, where the ministry is today the Board of Appeal, will now be decided by the Media Regulatory Board, so that the Media Authority will have increased power, and the King of the Council of State will have less influence over media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e305	On the morning quaint today, it was an important news that there had been a viewing storm at the NRK because one had not had a good coverage of the opening ceremony for the World Cup. I think that illustrates the problem of listing, because this is typically something you could imagine listed. We know that the VM event has revenues of 25 million. kr from TV rights, and no government grant other than that they do not have. A great deal has been done about installations and such things, but the very arrangemental nature is not, in particular, State-funded. Can the council reflect a little bit more around how she thinks she's approaching this? Does she think that the government is going to compensate for these expenses — or the income for someone — or does she think they're going to do less?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e312	It is true that we have an agreement with TV 2 that provides a certain framework for the type of programs that this channel should offer. In addition, the economic framework of the NRC is governed by the licence. In the proposal that we are going to consult, we come up with some suggestions as to what kind of national events we think it is natural to list. These proposals will not be independent of what has been done in other countries. There are clear procedures in this area, and strong regulation of it within the EEA Agreement, so the concrete proposals will be included in a draft consultation, on which we need to have a broad political discussion. I believe that some of the role of a public broadcaster, whether it's TV 2 or NRK, is to show some of the most general to us Nordics, and that's of course. Skiing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e319	I want to get hold of what the State Council said in its statement on the TV2 agreement. I'm asking you a little bit more about it, because it seems a little bit unclear what it actually contains. When we discuss the exceptions for concession in this matter: Is it not a subject, or is it part of the exception in the matter we are now discussing? It's an exception for nationwide concessions. Is the TV 2 contract part of that exemption, or is it outside the exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e324	TV 2 has no concession today. TV 2 has entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Culture and can actually send completely independently of a concession. In the case of radio channels within the FM network, the possibility to pass through the FM band is a limited good. Therefore, the actors in this area are dependent on a concession — for the time being — from the Ministry to send if they are not sent digitally. So that...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e331	But is it covered by the exemption? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e336	The change of reply is over – so the representative will have to assess what he has received from the reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e341	When it comes to the issue of TV 2's exemption, we have to get it clear, I think, at a later stage, because to me it seems a little unclear. With regard to the issue of media surveillance and competition supervision, it is true that the Right has also seen the link between these two inspections. We have previously had suggestions to merge these two inspections. I think this matter is not fit to address that particular question. This case illustrates the areas that are just problematic by having to make such a combination, which is borderlines related to age limits and such things. What is the age limit for pornography, what is the age limit for violence, etc.? These are issues that we all believe must be the subject of public regulation, but which perhaps not at first sight are what you think the Competition Authority is most suitable to do. So when the Right votes against the proposal of the Advance Party in this case, it is because we believe that we need to have a more thorough – and another – approach to this in order to see synergies and opportunities that can be in competition here. It is clear that if you, for example, looking at issues related to production grants and financial support schemes for the media, we also believe that a regulation could be made quite easily, for example. to the Competition Authority and see its context. I would also like to say that getting a clearer borderline between the ministry and media supervision is not just a matter of content and freedom of expression; it is also a matter of business framework conditions for some of the actors. And with the award of radio concessions in fresh memory, where it was – I'm sorry, President – a happy mess between media surveillance and department, I think we can all quickly agree that getting a clearer and more predictable framework on what to stick to is neat. And so, if the Council of State chooses to take the floor, I would like to hear if she could perhaps explain a little more clearly whether the legal framework that is currently around TV 2's broadcasts, to put it that way, is covered by the exception that this law describes, or whether it is not part of that exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e352	I would repeat that the Progress Party has great faith in the editors and editors around the country of Norway. We actually have more faith in the editors than we do in the department and the media. There's a lot going on in the day, and that's what everyone says in the media. And is this time to adopt what we're doing today? Is this a modern law, is it a law that captures the diversity we see in the future? What is certain is that diversity is not adopted in the Great Britain or in the Department or in the Government. There's actually a development out there as to what people want to see and listen to. Then we have the listing of sports events. Listing is a nice way to say it's taking control. What if others have a different taste than the government and department? What if someone wants there to be a show on the TV? What if a majority, large sections of the population, want anything other than the government? So what do you do? I understand that the chairman of the committee, Gunn Karin Gjul, wants to almost guarantee that the Norwegian people will be able to see the World Cup and the Olympics for free in the future. It's a guarantee that probably many, many are very happy, and I think it's great that the government can give. But how much does this cost? And what are you going to spend on this? We do not get an answer to that, but we guarantee it, that is quite clear. Then you can see that small local TV stations appear, for example. TV8, as we see several places in the country, and I think it is very positive that you have given them the opportunity to send. They've also been given the opportunity to get income, like bingo. Some people think it's all right, and it could be a nice income for these little local TV stations. But what the department does is not to allow the small local TV stations to sell the bingo beans, because it would be to compete with Norsk Typing. Then you give with one hand and then you stick in the wheels with the other, and there I think you have to have an overall assessment. Then I asked a question to the Council of State in the change of line. Then I got the answer that we “see ghosts on the bright day”. But when it says in the case papers that the government wants a safety valve, and that the King of the Council of State can override the media oversight and complaint subject in matters of «princely» and «social» interest, I ask, what is it? You can't answer that, but you say that we see ghosts at daylight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e366	I want to repeat what I have said about the TV-2 agreement. There is a voluntary agreement between the Ministry and TV 2. In the case of radio concessions, which are scarce, the Media Regulatory Authority is to conclude agreements on behalf of the State, on the basis of the framework established by the Stortinget and the Ministry. It will not be the case that, in disputes between TV 2 and the Ministry on the implementation of the TV 2 Agreement, the Media Regulatory Authority is responsible for resolving disputes in this context. It is possible that we can then draw on the competence of the Media Authority as a media advisory body, but it is not the media regulator that is to negotiate the type of agreement. Now there was only one person who wanted an agreement with the Ministry of Culture in this round, but if there were several broadcasters who wanted an agreement to be a nationwide public broadcaster, then – on the television side – there is a question that is not to be decided by the Media Authority, but to be decided by the Ministry, because this is a voluntary agreement and not a concession. In the radio field, there is still the possibility of sending a scarce asset, and then it will be the media surveillance that decides on that kind of issue. Then there is a great deal of disagreement between us and the Progress Party about this with diversity, that diversity is best maintained through the market. Then we can look at the situation in other countries, whether they have more media pluralism in countries where media policy is governed by the market. The truth is that we have more media diversity in Norway, we have more local newspapers, we have more regional newspapers, we have more nationally-wide newspapers, and to me it is important cultural policy. It is also important language policy, and it will become an even more important part of media policy in the future. And it is not that Norway stands out as a special regulatory nation in this area — there are many countries that have a strong regulatory framework for media policy. The dissemination of power within politics is important, but there is also an important principle of the dissemination of power within media policy. It is also the case that the EEA Agreement requires that we have some regulation of broadcasting and other electronic media and that these rules are also enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2714]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e393	This interpellance shall concern the State Channel NRK and the framework conditions available to both NRK and NRK competitors. Let me start with, in these World Cup times, congratulating the NRK with a full hit when it came to the opening ceremony. This was ironic, but it shows that despite all the fame the NRK received in the previous debate, they can bomb. And it might be okay that there are some, both politicians and others, who make a little notice that the NRK doesn't have all the answers. And then there's also someone who will later think that looking at NRK is free. The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, made it an impression in the previous debate. So it's not free to look at NRK. If you buy a TV, you have to pay a license, no matter what you're going to use that TV for. Whether you're going to dig it down in the garden, hang it on the roof or whatever you have to do: the license has to be paid. In other words, it's not free to see the NRK, it's not free to see the Ski World Cup. Someone's trying to create that impression, but it's wrong. So the NRK is in a special position in the Norwegian media image, and it has a historic anchoring. There was no one who, when the NRK was established and operated in its early years, disagreed that it should be. But then the world has changed radically, both nationally and internationally, with enormous changes, upheavals and competition. New digital media platforms are emerging, and major changes are also being made on the owner’s side. But the NRK is just as bumpy, if not stiffer, and with a wider possibility now than they've ever had. And it's clear that this is affecting NRK's competitors, who don't have suction pipes in every single wallet that the NRK has, because the NRK is licence-funded and gets in closer to 5 billion. kr annually in licence fees. Others have to compete on the open market. This, of course, creates great challenges for those who are in this sector, and especially in difficult times, which you have had in the past, with a financial crisis. But where media houses disappear, get merged, or have to cancel employees, then the NRK can do the opposite, that's to hire even more people. What creates many of these challenges is among other things. what you find in the statutes, and I want to quote Section 13d from there. Quotes are: ‘The NRC shall be present at and develop new services on all key media platforms in order to reach the widest possible extent with its overall programme offer.’ And that's really what's at the heart of the challenge. Because that point is so round, and it can be used in every possible context. It can also be used to enable the NRK, if they wanted to, to issue newspapers. The NRK is on many different platforms and operates on different markets, and I will take a few examples: it is among other things. common to be able to purchase space in NRK broadcasts. Extremsportveko at Voss does that, those who participate in the different local Melodi Grand Prix festivals, do that. Voss Extremsportveko collected NOK 400000 to cover his event, and some of the cities that have participated in the Melodi Grand Prix have paid SEK 1.3 million. kr, e.g. Sarpsborg has done it. In connection with the Finnmark race, you see exactly the same thing. In other words, you can buy space in NRK's broadcasts. The fact that you open up to that kind of journalism, I think it's a concern. It reminds me a little bit of journalistic prostitution. I don't know if that was an entirely correct expression, President, but I'm asking for forgiveness if it wasn't. I also think there is reason to reflect on the resistance this encounters editorialally with those who are engaged in journalism. In addition, the NRK goes directly into the sponsorship and advertising market, where you receive the sponsorship, among other things. from the Ski World Cup and other major sporting events and other types of event. So the NRK says this is absolutely necessary to carry out these shipments. Yeah, well, with almost 5 billion. However, in the form of revenue directly from the licence, they must have sponsors and advertisements in order to get these consignments through. Then I challenge the Council of State: how much of NRK's revenues do these so-called sponsorship posters represent? It might be a good idea to know how hard this affects other commercial players, because that's where NRK competes on the same line. Then the NRK also has an offer of media training for commercial operators. So in advance, media training is offered to those who will be interviewed in the next round. This has been a major debate on this, and the journalist club in the NRC has unanimously opposed this activity. The Council of State thinks this is quite right. It also seems to be the management of the NRK, and there have been several rounds of this. In other words, you don't listen to your employees in the NRK either. That some people who run the type of business in the NRK can make 15 000–16,000 kroner a day, I have also registered. At the same time, the NRK has limitations for its employees on what to participate in in commercial activities. I think it's a very unyielding way of acting. The NRK is also in the commercial market and makes commercial films. They have done that before the ski World Cup – produce an advertising film and show it on TV as pure advertising. That in retrospect they regret it, may be so. But they've done this, and it's not a mistake, it's been planned for a long time and it's got a strategy around it. Hopefully, the legislation is so well known in the NRK that you can catch up with these kinds of problems. So it's like NRK's in many areas. In the last five years, the NRK has established 120 services on the No.no website, including: weather service yr.no, database service, look-up work, games, etc. This goes directly into competition with commercial operators. One joy in this is that Minister of Renewal Rigmor Aasrud has gone hard on the way the NRK is acting. In the hearing opinions, she has referred to the Public Health Act and the possibility for other commercial actors to have both equal opportunity and equal access to the type of information that is now being collected and monopolised in one channel. And I am pleased to note that Aasrud also believes that the statutes of the NRK should be upgraded in order to regulate the business online, and that this is more thoughtful. I hope the Minister of Culture will listen to the Minister of Renewal and take the signals that are coming, and that it will be tightened up in the way that the NRK will operate in the future, so that it will be equal to competition. I'm too equal to competition, it's either the Ski World Cup or the media market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e428	The representative is actually raising an interesting debate on what, in the ultimate sense, a general programming should be. But his posts are not permeated by an interesting, principled discussion. What comes out is that the representative is almost happy about the times when the NRK does something wrong. I can deny that showing Extremsportveko at Voss is journalistic prostitution. I think it's a pleasure for the TV viewers. I myself have been present at Exstremsportveko, and believe that it is a good thing that it is shown on the NRK. So let's do this as an important principle discussion, because it's obvious. But if the goal of this discussion is to undermine the NRK, as the Progress Party has wanted on several occasions, it will be a completely different discussion. In short, I see no need to change the NRK's statutes now. In my view, it is important that the statutes provide the NRK with knowledge and flexibility. The Statute sets out the framework for the NRK's societal tasks. Other mechanisms shall help to ensure that the NRC does not deviate from the societal mission or unduly restrict private play. Part II of the NRK Statute is identical to the content of the NRK record. In 2007, we had a broad consultation on the NRK poster. It's been less than two years since the Stortinget last debated the poster. A broad majority of the Biggest joined the content of it. One of the objectives of the poster is to ensure the NRK predictability of the requirements and expectations of the community. The poster should therefore not, in my view, be altered frequently. Posters and articles of association underline that NRK ‘must be present and develop new services on all key media platforms in order to reach the widest possible extent with their overall programme provision’. This is not a blank authorisation of NRK to carry out a boundless extension of its task. These provisions must include, inter alia: be read in conjunction with other provisions of the Statute. For example, the statutes require that NRK’s offer be publicly available, that the offer be non-commercial, that the content be offered free of charge and that the overall offer meet democratic, social and cultural needs of society. It is difficult to predict how the media will develop in the long term. In order to ensure that public broadcasting will play a role in the future, it is necessary that the statutes do not set a narrow framework. The NRK must have an opportunity for the dynamic development of its offer. This is necessary in order for the NRK to succeed in being relevant to a wide audience. Therefore, in my opinion, it would be wrong to believe that the NRK should only be present on established platforms. They must also be able to evolve on new platforms. It is important for licensees that the NRK develop widely available, high-quality, universally innovative services. In addition, many of NRK’s competitors recognise that NRK sets a quality standard that also helps to increase the quality of commercial operators’ offerings. High quality contributes to increased competition for quality. That's good. I would also like to stress that it is important for a public broadcaster to offer content that an unregulated market would not have offered. However, the public broadcaster must also be able to offer content for broad groups and have the opportunity to develop new offers on all platforms where the audience is located. In my opinion, the NRK with a narrower mission would risk being marginalised. But this may be where the political disagreement lies. Most of us don't want the NRK to be marginalized, but that's perhaps what's meant for those who want to narrow down the NRK's ability to further develop on new platforms. Having said that, of course, I understand that NRK's commercial competitors have views on the NRK's framework. With a budget of 4.5 billion. It goes without saying that the activities of the NRK may have an impact on the leeway of commercial operators. This is why in 2009 it was legislated that new media services NRK wanted to offer should be subject to prior approval. The purpose of the scheme is precisely to ensure that NRK’s offer meets public interests and that it does not unduly impair the ability and competitiveness of private operators. Media surveillance has been given the responsibility to carry out the evaluation of new services and to provide advice to the ministry. Only new services meeting the democratic, social and cultural needs of society can be recognised. New services must add value to the total existing media market. So this is very much regulated, and the Media Authority has considered many aspects of the NRK's business, over 100 of the offers made, and charged three of them. These included: UT.no. It was about charging for votes. So it's not that the NRK can operate within a completely free framework. Here, media surveillance plays a significant role in regulating and providing a framework for NRK activities. As part of the scheme, the Competition Authority shall also assess whether the service has the potential to restrict competition. That's exactly what this interpellant is all about. The central element of the assessment will thus be whether the importance of a new service to the ‘democratic, social and cultural needs’ of society can be said to be more important than any restrictions on competition. Although a new NRK service may have negative competitive effects, it can be recognised if the overall social benefits outweigh the greater. For the sake of order, I would like to mention that the Ministry is now also carrying out a process to assess whether existing NRK services on new platforms comply with the Statute. On behalf of the Ministry, the media surveillance department has assessed existing services – which I was in charge of – and the supervisory assessment has been consulted and is now under assessment and decision in the ministry. Finally, I would like to point out that regulation of the NRC in this area is not an expression of any strange, liberal attitude towards what a public broadcaster can do. A wide range of European countries have mechanisms that are similar to ours. The EU Commission has recently published guidelines which state that broadcasters funded by State aid can legally use them to develop offers on new media platforms. So this isn't strange, this is in line with every country that has a public broadcaster that contributes to the quality of the media. At the same time, as I said, I have an understanding of the objections that come from NRK's commercial competitors. The system of prior authorisation has been designed precisely to ensure that commercial operators are taken into account. No media services have been assessed under the scheme for the time being. I believe we must now consider whether the scheme works after the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e461	As expected, there was nothing new from the Council of State. Now I'm not happy about what goes wrong in the NRK; I don't need that kind of pleasure. The NRK is solid, and the NRK produces very well both radio and television. I notice that the Council of State did not see any need to change the statutes, despite the fact that the world around the media industry is changing significantly, and is changing rapidly. The Council of State was within this with many ways of preserving its content. It can be preserved in many ways. For example, as some people have aired, a fund with the same income as the NRK has today – i.e. the revenue from the NRK goes to a fund where independent media actors and producers can apply for funding from this fund. It will certainly ensure diversity, and criteria can also be laid down for the fund on how these funds are to be distributed. So the Council of State often uses the term ‘in line with other countries’ when referring to what is happening. I noticed with interest that in the evening post today it says that you can ‘drop the TV license’ – then we’re all over Sweden – simply because development is moving fast ahead, and that much of the content becomes available on new platforms such as mobile phones and PCs. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State specifically at this very point: how do the Council of State see solutions to these issues, where you take TV on mobile and PC? I have also noticed that the media-political spokesman of the Workers' Party, Kåre Simensen, has been thinking about this with the NRK licence and the technological development that rages further, so fortunately there are at least some in the Workers' Party who are in the vicinity of thinking new thoughts. I notice that you are looking for new ways to get more license money. It is also necessary to challenge data protection in this way, forcing cable companies to provide a personal number for those who are customers. Of course, it places cable companies in an unsustainable cross-compliance situation, where they must comply with different obligations on delivery and at the same time are at risk of violating the Personal Information Act. I would also like the Council of State to comment on this in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e474	To address the last question, first of all, there is a proposal that is being consulted, so it is not natural for me to conclude on this issue now. It just shows that when we make changes in media policy, we have broad consultations. Many will be heard. It is important for us to listen to both private actors and others when developing media policy. Then I probably don't agree that when the world changes, we're going to put down the way we conduct media policy in Norway. I believe that the objective of media policy is firm, namely to contribute to diversity of opinion and quality, but some instruments need to change. I think that's one of the most important things we can do when we're going to go through, among other things. the production aid, against which the Contracting Party is opposed. This will lead to a massive closure of many newspapers. Well, there's a fundamental disagreement between us and the Progress Party. So I am a member of Norwegian media policy, where competition is high, and where governments have an active role to play in contributing to different opinions. So far, it's not a current issue to look at extending the licensing basis to other areas. The number of licensees is increasing, but there's also something we have to look at, maybe, in the future. It shows that in this area there is disagreement between the party of the interpellant and the government parties. I want the NRK to be able to contribute to the development of new platforms, but there should be strong regulation on how these developments are to take place. We also need to facilitate commercial actors. That is why we wanted an agreement with TV 2 to facilitate strong commercial players, and very many of the arrangements we now have, among other things. within the film area for which part of the Cultural Promise – for which the Advance Party is a member – also contributes to supporting Norwegian-produced programmes which can also be shown on the other commercial channels. I have seen a strong growing interest in Norwegian-produced drama and Norwegian-produced series also with the commercial players outside TV 2, and I think that is a happy development. It turns out, then, that as competition in the media sector increases, as global opportunities grow, the interest in quality in Norwegian programmes is growing. That, I think, is a positive development. It shows that it is right that authorities have a regulatory role in media policy to contribute to diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e487	I think it's brilliant that the representative Korsberg is drawing up a debate on the NRK as a public broadcaster, and that he is drawing parallels to the digital development we have in the media. But I fundamentally disagree with everything that the Progress Party and Korsberg stand for in this matter. The size has discussed NRK’s statutes and NRK’s poster several times in recent years. I think that Stortinget has well raised the gap between the NRK’s general broadcasting function and competition against the commercial, private broadcasters. In addition, new services have been carefully accepted. They shall be subject to prior approval before they can be authorised by the NRK. It makes us have a good, balanced policy in relation to the NRC. It is not surprising that the Progress Party is raising this debate. It's a party that wants to privatize the NRK, that doesn't want a public broadcaster like the NRK. What is sad, if the Progress Party gets an impact on its policy, is that we are going to have a much poorer and poorer media offer in Norway. In the long term, the digitalisation we have had of the TV media and the digital groundnet only the NRC has public broadcasting obligations in Norway. The NRC is committed for a long time to offer a programme to people of all ages, who are obliged to offer good news and topicality programmes, to offer children – which is lacking in all other television channels – and whose obligations relate to drama production. If we look at developments in commercial television channels, we see that the programmes targeted at the age range of 25-40 years. Why are they? It's because it's where the big market for sponsors is. We see that the same TV companies are increasingly focusing on reality series, we see that TVNorway has dropped its news production, and that TV 2 has removed the self-production of documentaries. It tells how important it is for the NRK to maintain its position and breadth in a media landscape that is becoming more and more commercialized and narrower and narrower for the population. The only guarantee we have for people to have a qualitatively good and wide range of programmes in the future is that we have NRK as a public broadcaster. It seems to me that the Progress Party believes that the NRK should only be shown on the traditional TV. It's pretty serious, because with the technological development we have today, like the furrows of farms, the possibilities of the NRK are being undermined. You can marginalize NRK's capabilities if you don't want to be on iPod, iPhone, mobile phones and computers. We believe that the NRK should follow technological developments and be on all platforms. But it is obvious that the Progress Party by amending the Statutes wants something different. The media surveillance has recently reviewed the existing services on the new platforms on which the NRC participates. With one exception, UT.no, you say that all the services you now have online are within the public broadcasting function and are in line with the NRK statutes. I, like the Council of State, want to read from Section 13 of the statutes of the NRK, which says: «The NRC shall be present at and develop new services on all key media platforms to reach the widest possible extent with its overall programme offer.» I am afraid that the policy of the Progress Party will bind the NRK on its hands and feet in relation to technological developments. It cannot be that the NRK should not be allowed to show NRK Super online after the children have watched children's television and read blogs. Finally, I would like to say that this is not a Norwegian debate. This is an international debate. A similar debate has been held in the United Kingdom. The Guardian Chief Editor, Alan Rusbridger, says wise words in the latest annual report to the Tinius Foundation. He says, ‘You could have done a lot of damage to the BBC just to discover that the newspaper’s problems were still there. It's a global challenge we're facing, it's not just about the United Kingdom."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e512	When the last speaker said that public broadcasting and public service channels must be state-owned, she is completely wrong. TV 2, which is private, characterizes itself as a public service channel, and it works very well. No one wants the NRK to become a museum object in the evolution we're seeing now, which is going on a raging pace. But the NRK and the government are meeting new and exciting times, and we have a digital development that is moving fast. Who is it that decides that we should scrape 15-20 million FM radios? Well, it's the government, the NRK and the media industry. It's not the radio-lyts that decide. The DAB decision in Norway is in stark contrast to what is happening in other countries. DAB has been driven by major players in the electro industry – I think Elkoop is very pleased with this – or others with special interests. So for me it gets very close when the department and the NRK go into such close cooperation, maybe a little too close. The problem with DAB is that it's a technology that's already out of date. Nevertheless, the NRK will run on it further. The audio decoder in DAB is very old-fashioned. It provides poor sound and space for few stations. Obviously, it doesn't matter to the NRK -- they have room there anyway. DAB+ is much better, has better audio decoders that provide better sound and space for many more stations. You also want to bet on that, but you still drive on. Governments referred to what is happening in Europe. I think it's important to lift your eyes and get out of a navel-sighting life. An EU report concludes that FM closures, which NRK and the Ministry have decided to do, are inedible and that it is still uncertain whether DAB is the right platform or not. Jørn Jensen from the NRK, president of the WorldDMB, does not actually suggest shutting down the FM network. So there you are already on the collision course. The EU proposes several standards, but largely favours DRM, not the NRK and the government, and not the DAB chosen by Norway – a completely different platform in other words. This can have major consequences for us consumers. We who travel on a trade trip to Sweden may risk stopping our car radio at Svinesund. I'm sorry. This is not something we want. Norway will be the first country in the world to close the FM network. So we already have a world champion. DAB shall be imposed by force. How popular this decision is is, I'm not sure, when people discover that they have a travel radio, car radio, radio on the cabin, in the basement, in the living room or on the mobile, like the NRK, along with the department, will scrap. Norway, after all, is a small country. If we continue with DAB, it will give us expensive radios and little access to equipment. We are not drifting in technology in the world. We're only four million people. When the FM shuts down, there's no way back. It is claimed that the FM network is in very poor condition and that the masts are rusting. When did aluminum start rusting? Most masters are aluminum masters. It's the same masts you have to hang the DAB transmitters up on. So this argument should be put away. The NRK has spent hundreds of millions of dollars building the DAB network, and there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the owners, the Norwegian State, the Minister and the Ministry of General Assembly in the NRK have assessed that there is no way back. However, the market has so far not wanted the development of DAB. Then forced has been the only way out for the NRK and the department. It is alarming that the NRK has refused to indicate how much money they spend on DAB. So there's no openness in that area. In Sweden, Swedish Radio has reported that they spent 600 million dollars. Swedish kr before the government put the foot down and stopped this madness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e533	After listening to the debate so far, I feel a certain need to repeat what we are actually invited to discuss. The wording of the interpellation is ‘needs to tighten up and clarify the statutes of the NRK in order to take into account commercial operators’. So that's the theme. It's not DAB radio, it's not whether we're going to have a license or not, it's not whether the NRK has much or little to run, it's not a question of whether buying space is part of editorial work. It is a matter of ‘eating’ a very serious and important issue, namely whether we in Norway have sufficient space to further develop a private sector in terms of content production and in terms of creating both editorial products and purely commercial products. That's the theme – which I understand – we're invited to discuss, and that's what I'd like to add some considerations to. Firstly, it is clear that the NRK has never intended to be a commercial actor or has never been treated as such. The issue of advertising is the only one of these issues that has a story like this, and I want to link some comments to the relationship between NRK and TV 2. It's the only experience we have to build on so far. I think we could say that TV 2 and NRK have had a mutually beneficial function, also in relation to the political issues. Firstly, the NRK has adopted a qualitative standard, which has obviously meant a lot about how TV 2 has evolved in terms of content production. We see from countries where standards have been weaker, that many companies that can be compared to TV 2, probably not when the qualitative standards for which TV 2 is known – and that is what TV 2 is for. On the other hand, TV2 has shown that it is possible to produce TV programmes that are considerably cheaper than what the NRK is doing, and it is also a useful experience to bring with it for the Stortinget and the government in relation to their ongoing assessments of the NRK economy. This is a result of keeping a pretty clear limit. The only exception is the advertising posters, which we have discussed several times. That's a limit that the right is occupied with should be tight, and maybe there's also a need to look at it. What we are now facing is two other types of income, where the NRK challenges the private sector. One is about developing products where you can get paid, i.e. type UT.no or yr.no. You could imagine that, for example. was paid on yr.no. That's the example of the media industry in raising the question of where the boundary is going. The second question is to publish products, and that the NRK – as a publicly funded actor – can publish products free of charge, for which someone else could have developed and paid for. That's the two relationships we're now facing, and we're going to see if there's a need to tighten up. The right considers that there is every reason to take a closer look at this, because experience has shown that technological development is going faster than what we're doing to predict. An example is the network cable for the NRK, where the right pointed out that there was a need to tighten in, and where the NRK took the signal initially. We believe it is important to go into the prior authorisation, review it again and, as has been done in the United Kingdom, hold it against a ‘public value test’. This is a work that must go on and on, because both developments in the industry and technological developments warrant it. The right would like to answer yes to the interpellant's questions. And we want it to be a clear-line process that creates a good and necessary space for private actors in Norway to be given the maximum possible space – measured against the demands and wishes we have, which is embedded in the public broadcasting poster.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e548	As other representatives have been involved in the past, we are a small country. We have a small language community, and therefore we also have an active language and cultural policy to preserve Norwegian language and culture. The NRK is one of the most important language and cultural instruments we have, which gives us news production, drama and film production, as well as online services – in Norwegian and Norwegian culture. This means we need where people are. People no longer just watch TV, as it has been repeated in this room in many cases now — there is a digitisation of the media. If we want to preserve Norwegian language in the future, it must also be online. Otherwise I think people will take advantage of English services. I had my suspicions when I read the interpellation, and the representative of Korsberg confirmed it for the benefit of his post: The agenda of the Progress Party in this matter is to strangle and privatise the NRK. As the representative Gjul was in, it's so that if you strangle the net bet to the NRK, the NRK will become more and more less relevant to people. And that is the agenda for the Progress Party – a less relevant NRK. What is obviously so bad and difficult for the Progress Party must be that it is just the infamous state channel that runs online. The progressing party spends all its time getting everything that has a twist of state in it, to smell the old hospital corridor. Tungrod, old-fashioned, boring – these are words that the Progress Party would want them to connect to the NRK, because this would make it much easier to privatize it. But they can't, unfortunately, because NRKbeta, yr.no, UT.no, NRK Nett-TV is all in front. These are popular sites, also among young people. People should notice that the Progress Party wants to offer people less, to give them less for the money. Once again, the Progress Party is running its business – and not the people and Norwegian culture and language.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e560	Public broadcasting is a key instrument of Norwegian cultural and media policy. As a public owned public broadcaster, the NRK has a special responsibility for providing good services. But what are good services, what is the right width, what is the good content, and where are the boundaries in terms of commercial products? There are key questions that need to be asked and that need to be debated on a continuous basis. I'm sure there's regular themes also within the NRK. I fully agree with the Olemic Thommes representative's clarifications of what is really the theme of the interpellation, at least originally. It's an important topic, and it's time. The competition surface of the NRK should be discussed at all times. It's a demanding balance all the time you're always at risk of overrideing editorial freedom. However, in order for the NRK as a licensed broadcaster to strengthen its position, it is positive that the Stortinge regularly discusses various aspects of the general broadcasting process. Now the interpellant and signed a very different view of the NRK, both on funding and the NRK in general, and it becomes even clearer in the first article of the interpellant. But for the Christian People's Party, which is committed to maintaining a robust NRK, it is important to raise awareness of the role of our licensed public broadcaster. It is important that the State expresses expectations of the NRC's societal mission, and the level of detail must balance with the legitimate demands of the NRC for editorial freedom. Leaders must be at an overall level. The NRK poster is therefore a good tool for clarifying public expectations of the NRK. The Constitutional Act § 100 states that it requires the state authorities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. According to the Storing Communication that preceded the amendment to the new Section 100 of the Constitution, public space is to promote the three social-constitutional processes: truth-seeking, democracy and the free formation of the individual. It is the state's overall responsibility for public spaces, so that individuals have an actual ability to express their opinion. The infrastructure requirement is comprehensive here. Media policy is part of it, and the NRK is a central part of society's infrastructure. For all of us who want a strong NRK, it is important that the state channel just contributes to an open and enlightened conversation, and that the NRK has the ability to play that role and be part of that infrastructure. The problem that the interpellant raises must be seen in the light of just that. It also needs to be seen in the light of the enormous technological development that makes the so-called informed public conversation take place in ever-new arenas. But it also means that there must be awareness and critical assessments of the choice of commercial programme content, commercialisation of products, etc. It's also not a goal in itself for the NRK to be the largest. It's not the ratings alone that's supposed to control the NRK. The NRK also has an obligation to deliver so-called narrower substance and content that is not supplied by the channels that live by viewing figures alone. I think, among other things. on high-quality cultural programmes, analytical substances, the breadth of the news material and the unique network of district offices of the NRK. Nor should this debate be simplified to a debate on for or against the NRC. But that there are some dilemmas we face in the face of competition against those who are going to run commercially on this arena, we must never underestimate, and therefore the debate on the theme that has been raised is still important to keep up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e578	This is an important debate, and it has been interesting to follow it. I think, summed up, that both the content of the interpellant and the interpellant's posts from this interpellant are permeated by the fact that the Progress Party wants to cut hands and feet of the NRK in the ripping development that we see in the media field, and that the consequence will be that the NRK will remain on the platform when the train goes to the future. What's perhaps more interesting to discuss, is what's at the back of such an interpellation. Well, it is that the Progress Party, together with a number of commercial players, including international players, is in the vanguard of a campaign that will weaken the public broadcaster, with the serious consequences it will have. That's what's at the heart of this question, that they systematically and repeatedly try to weaken their trust. Obviously, it's the backside when Øyvind Korsberg on this speaker's chair is clearly mad that the NRK is also making mistakes in certain contexts. One of the challenges the Progress Party faces with people is that people are evenly satisfied with both the offer made by the NRK and the arrangement that we finance this with the license. It was claimed by the Progress Party that this is a very expensive system. Yes, for NOK 6.60 a day you will receive news, films, sports, documentaries, gold bars on Fridays. It will be particularly interesting to see this in a broader context: the overall lack of a comprehensive cultural policy by the Progress Party, a policy that should leave everything to the market. Because with the policies of the Progress Party, we had also had no regulation on cinema tickets, and the press support had been gone. And that's where we come into the essence of the Media Policy of the Progress Party. Obviously it's when Plinky Plonk-political spokesperson in the Progress Party, Ib Thomsen, speaks. First, he's wrong. It's the commercial actor P4 who may have been the strongest driver for radio digitisation, not the NRK. Secondly, digitisation will cause us to have both more channels and better coverage in the districts, which obviously the Progress Party is not very concerned about. I feel that the Progress Party in its rhetoric shoots itself heavily in the foot when they claim that the small NRK is doing on this front today when it comes to using digital tools, new opportunities to reach out, is a distortion of competition that threatens the other actors – when we know at the same time that the actual policy of the Progress Party is to commercialise the entire NRK, privatize it, which we know will affect the entire media landscape. The Progress Party, which in all respects is concerned with the importance of language for our new compatriots in order to be well integrated and work well in the Norwegian community, also disregards the importance of the NRK for language, culture, districts, national communities and not least integration, and the consequences it will have if we lose that opportunity to actually pursue language policy, and if we get an ever-increasing amount of English-speaking, foreign-language, television programmes. I stand here with a report that has reviewed the impact of market financing and the privatisation of the NRK. Firstly, it concludes that it is unlikely that the market alone will be able to provide NRK resources of the same size as today. It also concludes that it will lead to a cut-off of the Norwegian radio service, that NRK’s online betting has proved to be less attractive in commercial terms today and will therefore face a challenge if NRK is commercialised, that TV 2 will have huge competition from NRK in the advertising market, and that important parts of NRK’s programme offers will be lost or, at least, severely reduced, such as. news and timeliness programmes, children’s programmes and regional broadcasts. That's why I want everyone in this room to see through what's at the back of the party's rhetoric, namely that they're really looking to privatize the NRK and use every opportunity to undermine the NRK's operations and raise doubts about the whole scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e595	There has been a wide-ranging debate, which has embraced quite a lot. I don't think I'm going to comment on either cinema support or production support for newspapers or anything else that has so far been on the side of the interpellation, but I need to comment on some statements. The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, was very concerned and thought that if you didn't have a NRK, it would be a very similar offer in terms of, among other things. reality series, etc. I have registered that the NRK has a series that apparently goes on the NRK3 and is called something like Family in the dark. You turn off the light and let two pieces into a room, and it's going to be good TV. Well, well, I'm not sure. I guess that's what you were doing in very young days. What you see is that the NRK is turning more and more into being like its competitors. Of course, you can have quite strong and many opinions about that. So someone claims that we're doing this, that is, raising this interpolation, to privatize the NRK. No, I think the most important thing is to get a debate around the NRK, which is such a big and good player in the market, but also up against its competitors. We have no fear of privatisation. Nor has the Workers' Party had it before. They have gone to the fore to privatize, among other things. Statoil, Telenor, etc., etc., and that is, of course, privatisation that has been successful. I think the NRK too would have tolerated that, and they could have developed their products even better. The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande said that we wanted to "capturing the hands and feet" of the NRK, and that the NRK would remain alone on the platform. If we're going to cap the arms and feet of the NRK, at least we're going to offer anaesthetic. With that in mind, I believe that changes should be made, we also need to adapt the changes to the structure that the NRC currently has and to take good care of it. So changing the way this is going to be financed and operated is completely possible. We simply want it to be possible to have a diversity in the ether. It's the real world today. The dividing lines go on that the red-green defends the NRK with life and light. I respect that, because a recent research report from BI proves that the NRK was biased in the election campaign coverage in 2005. The red-greens were prioritised by the NRK, they got very good media reviews and favorable questions in the party inquiry. On that basis, I understand the red-green defense of the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e610	The interpellant had put forward an important principle debate on the boundaries of NRK’s activities, but it ended up becoming a fundamental debate on media policy, where the interpellant concludes that when Statoil can be privatised, the NRK can also be privatised. Here are the dividing lines, because I think the NRK is part of our cultural policy, and that we can't base the same kind of principle considerations when we run shops through Statoil, as when we run cultural policy through the NRK. I also notice that the Progress Party is not in favour of digitisation of the radio medium and is strongly critical of digitisation of the NRK's activities. So here you have to be locked in the past. I think the claim from the interpellant party trap, which claims that I believe that the radio masts have rusted, is a little suspicious. I have never said that the radio towers rust. What is quite obvious, on the other hand, is that the radio transmitters are getting worn out. That's why it's important that we take a big hold and say yes to digitisation of the radio medium. The radio medium is not what will be hanging again in the past. It is also about democratising the radio media, that a wide range of services should be provided across the country. It was also the case that the Local Radio Association was in favour of the proposal that we made. I think it's been an interesting discussion where the motive of the Advance Party for the interpellation is evident, namely to limit the NRK's activities. I think the Norwegian people are going to be happy that neither Korsberg nor the undersigned are going to decide what is going to be sent to the NRK, or have opinions on what types of programs are going to be sent to the NRK, because the NRK is going to do it on its own – based on the principles of editorial disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e623	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e637	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e646	Everyone needs a place to live. Housing has gone from being a home to becoming an investment – the most expensive thing you do in life. In Norway, it has been a goal that everyone should be able to own their own housing. Because Norway has one of the most deregulated housing markets in Europe, we borrow a lot of money to get it to, here in bidding rounds, is happy when we win and wake up sweat at night when we discover that we have millions of debts. Although it's a little bit on the side of what we're discussing, I have to add that there are a lot of people who don't get this opportunity. In particular, many young people do not receive loans, they have to rent expensively and do not enter the housing market. The time of entering the housing market is very crucial for one's economic situation out of life. If you buy accommodation when it's cheap, you have an advantage out of life. If you buy housing when it's expensive, you often have a life problem. Especially if you have bought expensive and have to sell cheaply. Debt victims today are often people who had to sell when the market was at the bottom in the early 1990s. If you're so unhappy to have bought the cat in the bag, it could have serious financial consequences for you. Just because housing is the biggest and most important investment you make in life, and because most of us have to borrow so much money to get it done, good rights are important in this field. It means an overall committee. The proposers have three suggestions: one about the purchase of new dwellings, and two about the purchase of used dwellings. Last year, Stortinget strengthened the requirements for guarantees by extending the guarantee period from two to five years. The amount of guarantees was also increased. Here we have made important changes that improve people's rights. The majority of the Committee wants to see the impact of the changes before we make any new ones. With regard to the two other proposals made by the proposers, which relate to the purchase of used accommodation, the majority of the Committee considers that it should be seen in the context of the discussion of the decision of the Committee on Tariffs and Trade. There, these questions have been thoroughly discussed and evaluated. It is good that the proposers are impatient in this field. So am I. This government has caused a new line break. Unlike the bourgeois government, of which the party of the proposers was previously a part, we have strengthened the rights in purchasing housing. We have regulated the property brokering industry, and we have started a very important work with the Tax Law Committee. I therefore hope that the minority in the Committee would like to support further the work in this field. The majority of the Committee recommends that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes. I assume that the minority will present their own proposals and votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e663	Rejoice by holding the key of a new dwelling in the hands of many people. It's not that you can buy a new dwelling every day, and that's why this is very important to us. It's like the proposers write, this is the largest single investment we make, and it's a long-term and expensive investment for the consumer. Therefore, good consumer policies are very important. I became the owner of a house for the first time last November, to both joy and concern. Suddenly I have an enormous amount of money in debt, but again, which is my own. Buying a dwelling is a big decision that often spends a lot of time, energy, and not least money on it. It is therefore also such that the downturn can be so great when you have purchased a dwelling that would prove to be both wrong and missing. This is precisely why it is important and good for consumers that the government has taken action that has better consumer rights when purchasing housing. In recent years, the government has submitted several proposals to the Stortinget that strengthen consumer rights for Norwegian housing buyers. The guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act have been tightened up, as has also been done in the legal regulation of agreements for the resale of housing under construction and in the legal regulation to prevent problems with low-cost buildings. The government is also busy with the important role that the valuer and the valuer have in a buying and selling process when it comes to housing. Therefore, a private tariff selection has also been set down to assess the benefits of state reports to make it safer to buy and sell a dwelling. They shall also consider measures that may reduce the risk to consumers and the number of disputes arising from the purchase of buildings. The report from the selection is now being processed in the department and will be followed up against Stortinget. The proposalers also address the question relating to the deadline for lodging claims under the Housing Entry Act. They want to extend this deadline to 10 years. In the housing law, the absolute guarantee period is five years, and the same applies to the rules of the law of disposal. In addition, the purchaser has a claim to advertise within a reasonable time after the defect has been discovered. It is therefore important to see the warranty period in a broader context. The tightening of the guarantee rules in the Housing Entry Act and the regulation of further halls have been agreed by Stortinget. These changes were important and contribute to ensuring greater security around the purchase of housing. As these changes have just been made, there is also good reason to leave the law for a while before any new changes occur. But one thing is clear: the government will continue to work to improve and strengthen consumer rights. We will take it seriously that many people experience difficulties when buying and taking over a dwelling. At the same time, we also need to be careful about introducing measures that are not accurate enough and that could change the balance between consumption and construction and that could lead, for example, to: higher housing prices. This is an important moment in life. Finally, I have to say that even though this is a very important matter, which also concerns the government and the government party, I am surprised that the Right has suddenly become so for regulation in this field. The Labour Party is always saying that we cannot leave the market to ourselves, but that the market must be governed. Then my question is: Has Right changed view of market governance, or does Right now admit that the market actually has to be governed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e678	Buying a home, whether new or used, is perhaps the biggest investment you make in life. Some people also do it several times, for different reasons. So it's clear that having a code, a security around this, I think basically everyone is interested in. What amazes me a little bit is that there is not a majority for the very moderate, but important proposals that the minority are promoting today. I just record that the red-green parties do not want to strengthen consumers' interests, nor do they want an improved and good consumer policy. That's what you're getting to accept. With regard to the proposal we have to introduce a 10-year warranty period, some experience has been gained, among other things. in Denmark, which has resulted in a reduction of serious construction errors by 20 pst. In other words, something has been done in Denmark that has worked, but this is not what you want to do here in Norway. That's a little weird for me. We also have a proposal relating to the service booklet for dwellings. You have it in many other areas. If you buy a used car, it is one of the things that it is informed about, that it follows a service booklet with the car. Housing is a much larger investment, and if you buy a used home, there may be several owners, and there may also be owners with whom it is impossible to get in touch for different reasons to get the history. This is also an important element, but it doesn't want the red-greens to be on. As I see it, the red-green people are more interested in opposing this proposal because it has risen from the opposition than in strengthening consumer rights. I would also just like to refer to the excellent comments that are in the setting, and I would like to take up the minority's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e696	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e699	Both the rapporteur and the representative, Mr Wagzlid, have presented in an excellent manner the reasons we had for promoting this proposal. Yes, they have explained in a much better way than what I could do as a – more than – well-grown man, because they have explained what is the problem of youth in the housing market, namely the uncertainty when you have made this huge investment that is perhaps the biggest in your life. This is the background to our proposal. That's why I think it's a little weird, when you agree with the problem description, that the roads are divided so capitally when it comes to what you're going to do with it. To Wagslid, who asked the Right now wants to regulate the market, I must be allowed to point out while I remember it, that this has nothing to do with the market. These are consumer rights. We want to regulate consumer rights. That's what we've always wanted. We want supervision, and we want regulation of consumer rights as society evolves. And no one can say anything but that the housing market is one of the areas that really change in society. That's why we're proposing this. Then I would also like to point out one thing when you say that this comes too soon after you have already adopted changes: yes, they are a short time behind us – that is quite right. But you don't have to finish the proposal to see that we're asking the government to evaluate this. It often takes time – at least it is my experience. And it is very well illustrated by the references to the Tax Law Committee, which has also dealt with some of these things – in particular this with mandatory state control. That sample report was submitted on 12 March 2009. It's about to have a two-year anniversary. I disagree with the Council of State who writes to the Committee that it is not appropriate to deal with one proposal separately, i.e. this on a mandatory state report. I think the state of the housing market in recent years has clearly shown that taking out one case and dealing with it separately would be very useful. I think consumers would welcome it with great joy. So a little bit to this with increased warranty time, and then we are back to the ones that are affected. The statistics show that when five years have passed after your first major investment, there are very many major damage. That's what we want to cover up. As a detection instrument, we have proposed compulsory construction insurance, which they have in Denmark – it works in combination with ten years of warranty – and that you can also have a guarantee. I would also like to comment on what the Council of State writes to the Committee, namely that such a scheme will cost entrepreneurs and those who build housing. Yes, but I think it is becoming marginally costly, and we can afford that in relation to the safety it will be for consumers. But when the Council of State is so concerned about what costs housing, I think it would be necessary to sit down in the government, look at the building regulations, the changes in the law of construction that have been implemented in the last two to three years. Operators in the industry can tell that a normal one-dwelling or an average apartment has actually increased by several hundred thousand in construction costs. It's a fact, it's not something I'm making up here. This again shows that we need to invest even more because of complex technical solutions that are to meet the requirements of the authorities. I believe that there must be even greater reason to look at the protection of consumers, who spend so much money perhaps once in a lifetime, but always in balance with what is practical for the industry, and we have also taken that into account in our proposal. I do not promote the proposal, because I felt it was promoted by previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e714	That's right. All minority proposals mentioned in the document have been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e717	In Norway, we assume that we want a policy in which as much as possible we should be able to own the home in which they themselves live. Buying a home is a big investment for everyone, most of us. When buying a dwelling, it is therefore that major faults and shortcomings in it have very great consequences for people's economy and for people's lives. The Consumer Council has given clear support to the proposals we are dealing with. Through the proposal for a representative, the right has put forward three proposals supported by the Christian People's Party. In the first proposal, we ask the government to file a case on a 10-year period of warranty and compulsory construction insurance or guarantee for the purchase of new dwellings. Both Sweden and Denmark have a 10-year guarantee period when purchasing a new dwelling. We see today that very many of the damage a building may have, very many of the mistakes that may have been made in construction, are not discovered during such a short period as six years, and that it is only in the period between six and ten years that you discover the consequences of any building error. According to SINTEF Construction Research, half of what is used to repair defects after taking over dwellings goes to errors that occur after five years. An extension of the guarantee period would make it much more dangerous to make construction mistakes and not take them into account. In the Tuesday edition of the Evening Post we could read that the Consumer Council stated in clear order that the warranty period should be increased to 10 years. In the second proposal, we ask the government to present a case to the Storting that discusses the use and consequences of the ‘as is’ reservation in the case of disposal purchases, and that in this case a decision is taken on the introduction of a mandatory state report in the case of disposal purchases. The level of conflict in the residential market is high, according to the Consumer Council, and it is important that the regulatory framework is designed to minimise conflicts. The Christian People’s Party agrees that it makes sense to review the use and consequences of the ‘as-is’ reservation. The Consumer Council also fully endorses the need for a statutory state report. So it's obviously important that we get such a review. In the third proposal, we ask that the government submit a case to the Stortinget with an inquiry into the voluntary housing service booklet. The purpose of such a service booklet is to provide security to the purchaser, an overview of the history of the dwelling, and it can also serve as a reminder list for both former and future owners of the dwelling. It is today that if you buy a car, which is also a big investment – but for most, hopefully, a smaller investment than buying a home – you are often given a service booklet that tells the story of the car, various improvements that have been made, etc. If you buy a dwelling, you don't experience it. Therefore, a voluntary service booklet can be a great burden for the seller and for the person buying a dwelling. The Consumer Council indicates that the interest in such a booklet will be high among Norwegian consumers. We therefore believe that the government should also investigate it. So I'm a little surprised that we see that the red-green representatives are trying to make this kind of ideological debate. From the start of the SV representative, it could almost be heard as opposed to the fact that it was a free market for dwellings. In this way one has to ask what the government has used these five to six years to do with the market that is thought to be so unfortunate. It is precisely by regulating a market that it is possible to facilitate the proper functioning of a housing market, even on the basis of social policy considerations. I would also like to congratulate the representative Lene Vågslid on a new residence in November. Then I can tell myself that by now last Monday I won a bidding round and made my biggest investment in life. This is useful experience for most of us, including: when you see what the valuer can write in a fare, which most of us see as really the security you have at the bottom – that the valuer has been visiting and going through the dwelling. In this respect, it is essentially reserved in most areas, that the valuer is not responsible for the lack of information about defects and defects which he could not have detected, whether in the case of electrical installations, ceilings which may not have been inspected under the taxi, or that the building may have hidden defects and defects which are difficult to detect during visual inspection. This applies in particular to critical areas such as drainage, membrane solution in wet rooms, insulation in floors and walls, etc. There are many reservations in the document that many consider to be safety and security itself that a good purchase has been made. Good regulation of the housing market is precisely what facilitates a well-functioning market. There is a need here to strengthen the interests of the consumer. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposals promoted by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e740	I agree with an overall committee that housing purchases for most people are the largest single investment in life, and that it is important to safeguard the interests of consumers in this type of contract. In recent years, the government has therefore promoted several legislative proposals that strengthen consumer rights in the field of housing. The requirements for guarantees under the Housing Entry Act § 12 have recently been reinforced by the extension of the guarantee period from two to five years, and the amount of the guarantees has been increased. Housing registration law applies to contracts in which a consumer purchases housing under the construction of a professional party. Furthermore, recent amendments to housing registration and disposal laws have been adopted to clarify the legal rules applicable to contracts for the resale of contract positions to dwellings in residential projects before completion. The government has also made legislative changes to prevent problems in low-income housing. In addition to these cases, the government reduced the so-called Tax Law Committee, which has issued the inquiry NOU 2009:6 State report on the sale of housing. The committee has examined and submitted proposals for legislation to ensure that information on relevant housing conditions is available in the marketing and sale of dwellings in consumer relationships covered by the disposal law. The investigation has been at the hearing and the government is working on an evaluation of the proposals in the light of the hearing. I note that the majority of the Committee does not support the concrete proposals contained in the draft representative. With regard to the proposal to submit a case to the Stortinget on compulsory construction insurance or the provision of guarantees in the case of the purchase of new dwellings, I refer to the changes recently adopted in the Housing Entry Act relating to guarantees, as well as to the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, which show why it is not appropriate to consider the issue of an insurance scheme. With regard to the proposal for an extension of the period of protection in the housing registration law to 10 years, it appears from the letters of the Council of State to the Committee that the effect of the recently adopted amendments should be awaited before considering, where appropriate, an extension of the period of protection. The recent amendments to the rules of the Housing Entry Act on guarantees are based on a balance between the interests of the construction industry and the interests of consumer protection. An extension of the guarantee period to 10 years will impose additional burdens on contractors. This can contribute to increased housing prices. In this context, I also mention that the new Planning and Building Act has strengthened the rules for the control of new buildings, which could contribute to increased safety that there are no hidden defects and defects. Proposals have also been made for the Government to present a case to the Storting that discusses the use and consequences of the ‘what it is’ reservation in the case of disposal purchases. Purchases governed by the law of disposal are for all practical purposes the purchase of dwellings that are not under construction. The proposal also asks that the proposed case on the ‘as is’ reservation should take a decision on the introduction of a mandatory state report. I also refer to the Council's letter of reply to the Committee, where it appears that the Ministry intends to present a case to the Stortinget on the follow-up of NOU 2009:6, where "if it is" reservations are included. I want to add that the tax law case is a complex matter, with many dissertations in the sample. The proposals in the investigation concern the amendment of legislation of major importance for the individual consumer to buy and sell housing. It is therefore important to make a thorough assessment of the case. With regard to the proposal that the government should submit a case to the Stortinget with the examination of the voluntary housing service booklet, I refer to the State Council's letter to the Committee, which states that in any case the process of follow-up of the same NOU should be awaited before any further consideration is made as to whether a housing service booklet system could be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e759	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e763	We have some major changes and upheavals in life. That's when we change jobs, when we divorce, and not least when we buy housing for millions of dollars. Dwellings should last between 50 and 100 years, as many have told them to do, and as some people are somewhat uncertain about whether they are doing. The old homes that stand today have at least done so. For dwellings, a guarantee period of five years has been set. The government is very pleased with that, and it amazes me somewhat. When we compare with a car, you have three to four years, and not least when you buy a mobile phone, you have three to four years on it as well. Does the Council of State think it's a reasonable number of years when you compare homes, that is, when you compare a car and a mobile phone to a dwelling? So to the next question I have. I am getting some enquiries about the case-law regarding this guarantee scheme. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e774	Firstly, I would like to stress that consumer protection in these cases has been significantly enhanced by a number of recent measures. I also agree that it is important to safeguard the rights of consumers and that it is important to do so in an informed way. The pricing committee's attitude illustrates how complicated this area is, and not least how everything is related to everything. That is why the majority's position on putting the proposals into the Minutes, in the sense that the important questions that this House will later be able to discuss need to be carefully examined, and we will also consider carefully the follow-up to the vote before making concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e781	In its contribution, the Council of State was concerned that increasing the cost of the companies would increase if the guarantee period was increased. Now we know that the costs for those who build dwellings are increasing, and the costs for those who buy dwellings are increasing significantly by the constant introduction of new building regulations, and that changes in the planning and building laws have continued in recent years. This is significant amounts, as I said in my post. It could be up to hundreds of thousands for each unit. Compared to such figures, does the Council of State consider that the costs of an increased guarantee period of 10 years will be significant?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e788	I think it is important to have a good basis for proposals in this area. I can, of course, refer to the changes that have been made in the Planning and Building Act, which the Minister for Municipalities has just announced how to implement. I could also have been tempted to draw up the reasoning that had just come back to the Right in 1996–1997, where they themselves expressed great concern at a stoppage of costs to entrepreneurs, for example. extend the period of validity of the guarantee claim to 10 years. Then it was the Right who made a strong call to keep a deadline of five years. I therefore think that treatment both in the past and now shows how important it is to have established a good basis for proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e795	Yeah, we're still worried about that. We also write about this in the setting of the case. However, balanced with the importance of this for consumers, we still point out that it should be reasonable to extend the warranty period. I would like to ask the Council of State another question. We understand here today that more people in the Committee are on the housing market. If we're an average of Norway's population, it means, relative to how many are here, that there are quite a number of people affected by this. Now you also buy used dwellings. Then this with a mandatory condition report is very important, as we were well described in the post of the representative, Håbrupke. There is no lack of such evidence. Does the Council of State consider that the treatment period since the selection of candidates in March 2009 is satisfactory on the part of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e804	Important and good proposals have been made on an ongoing basis to ensure consumer protection in the purchase of housing. I still think this is one of the questions that illustrates how complex the challenges are. We have had the Tax Law Committee, which did a thorough and comprehensive job, which ended in its very connection with the state report – what a possible scheme should look like and whether it should be mandatory at all. So I am sure that we will have ample opportunity to discuss this question at a later date, and then on the basis of a carefully prepared setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e809	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e814	The consumer pattern of the purchase and sale of the dwelling has changed significantly. We're not going back many years until it was common for a family to carry out only one housing purchase throughout their lives. Today there has been a completely different attitude, and a change of dwelling would like to take place more often than a change of car. When such changes occur in society, it is very important that a person constantly adapts to the law to those changes. Buying housing is a major investment, and of course it will have major consequences if it turns out that the stated standard does not meet the objectives. Reports show that construction errors represent significant amounts – 15 billion. kr is the number that has been used. There have been attempts to limit these numbers without any success. It is very important for society as a whole that a focus is on damage caused by construction errors. But what we're seeing now is that it's the consumer who has to suffer because one has not succeeded in limiting construction errors. An extended consumer right through guarantees would have been involved and contributed in a direction where the bill would have been much more targeted and addressed to contractors and insurance rather than to the consumer. However, it is important to take into account that one has two parties to a trade. A consumer is also responsible for his actions. Therefore, no one is served by legislation that only reinforces the rights on one side, which in turn leads to increased costs, and that there are only a limited number of entrepreneurs who are able to build dwellings and provide the guarantees requested. The dwelling has in a short time got reinforcements around energy, ventilation, and there have been new rules on universal design. This leads to an increased cost. Although everything should be involved and contribute to a better dwelling, there is not much help when one is no longer able to buy that dwelling. State report and service booklets are suggestions that could be good measures to show the condition of a dwelling. You can buy a cassette player for 100 kroner today, and you can use a 200-page user manual, but you can buy a home for 3 million. In addition to the invoice, you would like to have a wish for happiness. As many people have been involved, the service booklet is the first thing you check when you buy a car. This, in turn, has led to the car owner having a lot of focus – he thinks about resale, following the service booklet and is interested in what kind of maintenance is being done on the car. So through a combination of a service booklet that follows the dwelling, and demands for greater use of the condition report, one could get a much greater focus on the condition and maintenance of the dwelling, both for the buyer and for the seller. This, in turn, could lead to greater requirements for the execution of the services in the building. It is therefore disappointing that one does not want to have a case drawn up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e829	It is good that there is agreement on the need to strengthen consumer protection by buying housing, for it has been and is too weak. Dwellings and trousers are goods of very different durability and of very different importance, and consumer protection cannot and must not be the same. For this reason, the Stortinget has taken several decisions to strengthen consumer protection in the housing sector, partly against the Right’s votes. As several have already mentioned, the guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act are strengthened. The amendments will enter into force this year. A broad majority, all parties except the Right, adopted in June a total of 24 minor legislative changes that would prevent speculation in the housing law model and ensure more information and predictability for housing buyers. An important consumer intervention was also taken into account in the 2010 state budget. The system of rental commissions was extended to Bergen and Trondheim. Over the last few years, the housing services committee in Oslo and Akershus have seen a strong increase in the number of cases. This means that many tenants and landlords avoid long and expensive lawsuits in order to resolve conflicts. It is sad that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which today holds the consumer fan high, have opposed this system. In its 2011 alternative state budgets, the Progress Party wanted to close the housing lease selections, while the Right would cut 15 out of 19 million. NOK it costs to operate the scheme. So the right and the right will strengthen consumer protection for those who own the dwelling, but weaken it for those who may have the most difficulty in the housing market, the tenants. With this as a rear carpet, it is especially important to hear the representative Halleland talk about the housing buyers who are suffering. Finally, a few words about the workings of the proposers. The red-green government dropped the tariff range in 2007. The committee has delivered its opinion, which is now under treatment in the Ministry of Justice. It's no art to pick up good single suggestions from a NOU and launch them as their own, but it's really weird when the proposers, among other things. in the press release on the matter accuses the position of voting down the Right proposal. It is in everyone's interest that individual proposals are not dealt with over the table, but are considered comprehensively and seen in the context. That's what the government is doing now. I wish we had seen the same involvement with the Right in other consumer matters, but for all intents and purposes: it is great that the Right has great ownership of parts of the Tariff Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e840	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2715]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e856	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e865	Representatives ask in the proposal ‘the government in the context of the revised national budget for 2011 to submit proposals for changing the composition of fuel taxes with increased CO2 tax and reduced user charges according to the Swedish model, in order to contribute to improving the competitiveness of biofuels in the market’. In addition, the proposers ask ‘the government in the context of the revised national budget for 2011 to submit proposals for its own NOx component in the vehicle diesel user charge’. The aims of the proposal include: to obtain reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from passenger car traffic. The principle behind the proposal for changes in fuel taxes is to increase the emphasis on CO2 emissions and reduce the emphasis on the user charge in the charging system, while not significantly changing the overall tax burden on consumers or national revenues. Increased emphasis on CO2 tax will increase the relative price difference between conventional fuel and biofuels, which must be present if we are to obtain an increased part of biofuels without regulatory requirements, and thus reduced CO2 emissions, as biofuels in production are currently more expensive than conventional fossil fuels. Now there is already a clear device in the charging system, including: in the entry fee for the purchase of a new car, where the CO2 component is highly weighted, and it provides clear economic incentives for the choice of low-consumption car engines and therefore low CO2 emissions. A single committee points out that overall, it is important that the reduction of greenhouse gases is also imposed on the car park and that it must take its proportionate part in reducing emissions through various measures. At the same time, it is also very important to be aware of the important role of the car park in our long-term country, with great distances and poorly developed collective provision in many districts. Now it is also the case that the proposers have been heard to some extent, and this is confirmed by letters to the Committee by the Minister of Finance of 3 December 2010, which makes it clear that the government in the context of the 2011 government budget announces that there will be a holistic review of the charges on driving gear and fuel, and that the government will come back to this issue in the forthcoming budget. And then we'll see if they stick to this. The government has promised a number of things, but they have always kept what they have promised. Finally, a few words about the view of the Progress Party on the proposal. We fully understand the intentions of the proposal and will vote for it to be annexed to the Minutes. But we're also busy pointing to the fact that Norwegian consumers pay a very high price for a product that we're already a major producer of, and we should have good intentions to be able to translate nationally without skinning the inhabitants. Norway is a long-distance country with scattered settlements and large distances. In many areas, acceptable collective provision would not be possible, and in addition, such provision could lead to greater emissions than the private car does. One already sees a large moving stream from the districts to larger agglomerations today. There are many reasons for this, and one of the reasons is that they may be sky-high, strange fuel taxes. Therefore, the following proposals will be made by the Progress Party: ‘The government’s review of the total level of car charges and car use requires a reduction in the level of charges.’ With this, the Signatories take up their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e915	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e918	This is an important debate, in which there is very much agreement on the objective: phase-in of the largest possible low-emission and zero-emission vehicles on Norwegian roads. This is an area where a lot has already happened. We have had a gradual change in the charging system, where the CO2 component has been given increasing weight. What's great is that this is a policy that works. The SSB also reported a sharp decline in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions this year. Some of this is, of course, related to the financial crisis and economic downturns, but it is important that emissions continue to sink while the Norwegian economy is on its way up again. The SSB also says about the 2010s that a large part of the decline is related to the transport sector. And then, without starting the debate on biofuels all the time on scratch again, it's clear that it's not unproblematic to set up the charging system so that the climate-friendly alternatives automatically win. One concerns the relationship with local pollution, especially NOx. One might wish that it was such that low CO2 emissions from a vehicle automatically meant that one also had low emissions of all other components, but here there is no connection – on the contrary, there is a negative correlation. Often it is that low CO2 emissions make you use the fuel better, you get higher heat in the engine and more NOx emissions. And that's why, for example, The Asthma and Allergy Association are concerned that we do not weigh CO2 unilaterally. The proposers mention this issue in their proposal and believe that NOx should also be emphasised. But we can end up very quickly with a system where you win on the CO2 bit, lose a little bit on the NOx component and end up with really not getting any effect out of it. Then there's this principle that you have to pay for the burdens that you put on society. It is fundamentally right that all vehicles should contribute to paying for both asphalt, accidents and everything else that is applied to society, but it is clear that it can prevent rapid phase-in and providing temporary exemptions may create unforeseeability. A number of different models have been introduced which have in common a greater emphasis on the CO2 components of the fuel charge. There are many good reasons for this, and I think that should definitely be discussed and looked at. At the same time, we have regard to the long-term revenue of the state, and I believe that this is a perfectly legitimate objective. How are we going to get paid for roads, for accidents, etc. when we are gradually getting a large entry of low-emission and zero-emission vehicles? There are many good principles here that are partly contrary to each other, but we believe it is extremely important to have a system of charges that is logical, predictable and that provides for the rapid phasing-in of the new types of vehicles that come on the market. And I'm very optimistic. I think this is going to happen a lot in the next few years, because technological progress is going so fast. And you also make demands in other countries. EU requirements for reduced greenhouse gas emissions from fuels, as well as vehicle requirements, require 10 pst. blending renewables into fuels by 2020, etc. In Norway, we also use relatively strong instruments. We introduced sales orders of 2,5 pst. for biofuels from 1 April 2009. It was increased to 3.5 pst. from 1 April 2010, and now there has been a proposal to increase it to 5 pst. Clif recommends waiting, because there is uncertainty about the climate gain, but the decision is not made. I am optimistic about this, and I am very pleased that the Ministry of Finance is working hard and seriously on this, and that it has already been announced that a full review of the fuel charges is being carried out in the context of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e967	Norway has a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. It's going to be hard to achieve this goal, especially because we haven't really started yet. The emission reductions we have achieved are due to more randomness and less targeted efforts by the government. The time is short until 2020, and the government's current timetable and measures raise reasonable doubts as to whether it will be possible to achieve the objective at all. If we are to be able to realise our climate policy ambitions, the transport sector must be very central. The principle that choosing environmentally friendly always pays off must be based on the principle. We have to put the market into service in the environment, and we are doing the best we can by using the price mechanism. It is worth using, producing, importing and investing in environmentally friendly alternatives rather than fossil fuels. Relevant actors need to know that the fuel charging system is marked by predictability and long-termity. The Government has announced a comprehensive review of the fuel charging system. The right considers that a target of reducing CO2 and NOx emissions from road traffic must be the basis for government review. On the right, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposals have been made to reduce the user charge and increase the CO2 tax and introduce the NOx component. A significant reduction in the user charge, combined with a corresponding increase in the CO2 component and the introduction of a NOx component, will ensure that environmentally friendly alternatives are competitive for sale to the consumer, but also make it more profitable to invest in the production of environmentally friendly alternatives. First of all, this change will include biodiesel. Many of today’s environmentally friendly options have no charge at all. The imposition of user charges for biogas, bioethanol, hydrogen and electricity today will have very adverse consequences. Biogas plants built or under construction are likely to be depleted. Bioethanol will not be competitive for sale. The introduction of large-scale electric cars will be very difficult if electricity is also subject to user charges now. Oslo Municipality, which currently has bus series running on bioethanol, biodiesel, biogas and hydrogen, is likely to be forced onto conventional diesel if a user charge with its current cost structure is introduced. Any change in the charging structure of this type of fuel must be subject to strict predictability and long-term requirements. If a user charge is imposed, the Right believes that it must be in line with the design of the proposers, which we know has worked as intended, for example. Sweden. In this context, it is important to stress that all forms of biofuels must be sustainable. Biogas produced from food waste and sewage sludge, bioethanol produced from residues from the wood industry in Norway and biodiesel produced from waste products from the fish industry and the food industry are good examples of sustainable biofuels. There is little doubt that the government's fuel policy has so far contributed anything but predictability and long-term for users and producers of environmentally friendly fuels. The government has announced an overall review of the fuel charges, but the signals given in this room by, among others. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Head of the Financial Committee Torgeir Micasen and the Minister of Finance themselves, points towards a full user charge at the current level for all types of fuels, including electricity. It will be very unfortunate, primarily for the environment, but also because it will be an effective brake on the development of second generation biofuels. You don't have to have read so much Darwin to know that it's hard to escape the second generation if you've killed the first generation. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 2 which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1008	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1011	There is a strong consensus in the Committee that the last years of changes in the charging system related to the purchase and use of cars have worked as intended and are well compared to other countries. The average emissions of CO2 from new cars have decreased significantly, and the Norwegian car fleet is improving at a high pace, also internationally. It has fallen from 177 grams per km in 2006 to 141 in 2010. There was a drop of 20 pst. And we have to be satisfied with that. But the goal is that the CO2 emissions of new cars should fall below 120 grams per km by 2012. I can say that my personal car purchase has contributed in the right direction. We also want to get a better car park in the future. Low-emission cars shall be premiumed in particular, with additional deductions from the one-off purchase fee. I guess that's how we want cars that are going to get below 50 grams per km. There's a lot of development going on here, so there's hope. We have a climate notification to be submitted until the autumn, and there we will find how to implement the national emission cuts in the major transport sector. There will also be an assessment of the fuel tax. A conversion of the car tax and the fuel tax will be assessed and treated in the green direction – we expect – in the future state budgets. Like the representative Marthinsen, I want to say that I am positive about what is happening and optimistic about the future. I deeply disagree with the previous speaker, who thought that there were coincidences that made this go the right way. It is not, it is active policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1030	In addition to the petroleum industry, the transport sector is responsible for the highest greenhouse gas emissions. We in the Center Party are busy doing something about this, but we want the emissions to life, not the car. If we are to put the whole country into practice and have living communities throughout the country, we also have to assume that our country is long-term, and that the same solutions cannot apply everywhere. The central part of the transport policy therefore takes on board the fact that there are many people who depend on using the car. At the same time, we are concerned that greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease. Therefore, we believe it is right to twist the charging system in a direction where it becomes cheaper to buy cars that pollute little or nothing, while polluting cars are becoming more expensive. We want to make it possible for people to make environmentally friendly choices. We see that the gradual increase in the CO2 component in the one-off charge when purchasing a car contributes to a clear decrease in the average emissions from the first-time registered vehicle. It is necessary to facilitate people's choice of cars and fuels that minimise damage to the environment. In particular, the centre batch is concerned with facilitating the use of electric cars and cars that combine electricity with other forms of energy. We see that biofuels are one of several measures necessary in order to achieve the most emission-free transport sector in the long term. At the same time, we believe that the use of biofuels should be switched as far as possible to means of transport where electricity is not an alternative, for example. on heavy transport. The NOx emissions must also be further down. The local air quality, especially in Bergen, but also in other cities, has been very high. This is a clear nuisance for people with respiratory plaques and allergies. This is particularly a problem in areas where there are good alternatives to car use. We believe that priority must be given to public transport in urban and urban areas. In addition, in order to keep local air pollution at an acceptable level, more effective measures must be implemented at local level. Finally, the Government has announced a comprehensive review of vehicle and fuel charges. Assessments related to the Nox fee will also be part of this, and it seems that the Senter party is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1052	The climate agreement says that by 2020 we will reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions by between 15 and 17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. So we're going to write 2011. Soon there will be only eight years left to fulfill this promise that Norwegian politicians have made to each other. But we've also given it to the Norwegian people, and we've given it first of all for the next generation. We have lost a lot of time since we made the climate agreement in January 2008. A key element of the climate agreement is that we should reduce CO2 use in different sectors. In the vote on the issue we are discussing today, a unanimous committee says that the car fleet must also take its proportionate share of emission reduction through various measures. The Committee says this at the same time as pointing out the role of the car in our long-range country. It's actually a small milestone we're witnessing today through this setting. Yes, we are a long-distance country, but the car fleet is therefore to take its proportionate part of the greenhouse gas emission reduction that we are to achieve by 2020. Therefore, authorities need to facilitate the use of more cars with emission-free or emission-neutral fuels. We need to stimulate new cars traded in Norway to be cars with low CO2 emissions. We need a policy based on the fact that the car itself does not cause the climate problem, but the fuel. It is then important to facilitate the rapid phasing-in of new technologies that provide more energy-efficient car engines, but also the development of climate-neutral or zero-emission fuels, such as biodiesel, biogas, bioethanol, electricity and hydrogen. Swedish is a leading country in much of the environment and climate. Prime Minister Göran Persson set some goals, and he implemented a policy that brought the Swedes in a more climate-friendly direction. That is why the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right have pointed to the elements that the Swedish have in their charging system, through their representative proposal today. The government has announced a comprehensive review of the charging policy in relation to vehicle and fuel. That's good. But it's not like you need to reinvent everything, you can look at the Swedes and achieve a lot of what we want to achieve. But what is important for the proposers, with the short story we have here in the country in terms of biofuels, is that we are predictable, and that we can be trusted in the longer term. It is true today that the user tax on petrol and diesel in the State budget for 2011 is justified by the fact that it: ‘desires to expose the user to the external costs related to the use of the motor vehicle, excluding CO2 emissions charged through the CO2 charge. This is in line with the polluter-pays principle and will reduce the extent of the adverse effects of vehicle use.» Therefore, in principle, it is argued that all fuel should be subject to a user charge. In the 2011 State budget, bioethanol where petrol is the main component is subject to a user charge on petrol, while other bioethanol is not subject to a charge. Biodiesel is subject to a half user charge on diesel, while other emissions-neutral or zero-emission fuels are not subject to an user charge, despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance argues that they should in principle have been charged a full and full user charge. I think it's important that we be able here to get to a system that is predictable and that is long-term. As Mr Marthinsen said, the rapporteurs have taken this into account with regard to the NOx component, so it is taken into account in our proposal in view of the challenges we face in relation to local emissions, with such a transformation as we point to in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1095	Now the representative proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left has been presented quite thoroughly, and I will not repeat it. However, both when we were in government and now in opposition, the left has been very clear that the transport sector must take a proportionate share of the emission reduction. For this reason, the Left has always been a driver for strengthening public transport, including: to establish the reward scheme. We also believe that the state must take greater responsibility for rail solutions in our urban areas, which unfortunately the government parties have voted down in this Chamber. We are too restrictive in urban areas. We have been drivers for the phase-in of biofuels and the phase-in of more environmentally friendly cars through, among other things. a strong distortion of car charges, so that environmentally friendly cars are cheaper and with a tax exemption on electric cars. There was a former Minister of Transport, Skogsholm, a real driver. More and more people are choosing to drive environmentally friendly cars, and car manufacturers are now racing about this market. However, it is important that we politicians are predictable, so we avoid such incidents as when the tax exemption on biodiesel was removed overnight, after promising something completely different in the election campaign. What is important for the Left is that increased charges should not only aim to raise money for the State. What's important is you change behavior. I happened to come across a research report from Econ Pöyry, which was prepared for the Ministry of Transport. The conclusion of the report is that today’s oil-based transport sector will change dramatically and that a whole new system is under way. The report presents a picture of the many and demanding challenges that arise when fossil energy production begins to fall. According to the report, the oil stands for 94 pst. of the transport consumption in the world, and the analysts have developed their own method of ‘paradigm vision’ to create a credible picture of how the transition can be – from what they call the ‘fossil paradigm’ to what they call the ‘Smart paradigm’. I'll finish there, but this is very exciting reading. In conclusion, I am pleased that the government announces a review of the fuel charges, and the Left is very happy to contribute with input in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1109	I think this both is and has been a very good debate. I am becoming more and more convinced of how important it is that we now have a comprehensive review of fuel taxes and car charges. As both Mr Hemdal and Mr Astrup's representative stressed, this is quite complex. There's a lot of different parts of this one that have to go through, and it's a pretty diverse and diverse terrain that we're going to go through. In all modesty, the Minister of Finance signed a major contribution to climate change emissions in Norway in the early 1990s by proposing the introduction of the CO2 tax in 1992. But it belongs to history. We have discussed this matter on several occasions in Stortinget lately, and that is good. What is also important in the future for the government to present its assessment is that we get as broad a basis as possible for the discussion that the Storting should have. At least right now – or at the moment, as it is called – I also have the ambition to try to provide a basis that is so well and so broadly anchored in different environments that it should be possible to have a broad upturn in the Stortinget system itself. Then, of course, in its time it becomes a discussion of the level and the concrete rates of charges. So we want to keep what we promise, in relation to what we've notified, about this whole review. It is also important, as many have pointed out, that individual charges are anchored in principle, that the various actors have the most predictable system to deal with, so that they can also see this over a slightly longer period of time. Then it is clear that there are many difficult questions you should consider. One is the principle that regardless of what kind of fuel the car goes on, it is in a way the external characteristics of the car, except the fuel, that should be taken into account if a person is to pay a fee equal to the costs that are incurred to society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, etc. Indeed, alternative fuels that are currently free of charge should be subject to user charges. But there is also a question that will be given a broad discussion in the scheme we come to the Stortinget with. In the case of NOx emissions, it will be part of this overall review, so we will also try to address that issue as best as possible. We will also consider questions such as: in the case of heavier vehicles, where one will look at the technical and practical aspects of a more advanced road charge, and will also, in that context, refer to developments in other countries before considering whether we should possibly proceed with a concrete investigation. It's something that lies further ahead in time. Yes, we also need to draw inspiration and knowledge from other countries in this area, because it is important to see developments in a larger international context. The ideal for investments in the production of biofuels is that fuel itself should be competitive without any special tax treatment, except for the one concerned, for example. on CO2 components. So finally, it's the way the government places great emphasis on different interests being given the opportunity to be heard now until we present the matter to the Stortinget. There was a meeting of the Ministry of Finance with political direction on 27 January this year, where twelve different organisations with special interest in car charges were given the opportunity to present their views on both car and fuel charges. Some of them have also contributed written articles. As I said, it is important in the phase we are now in, with the widest possible contact and to go out as far as possible to get good input into the job that the government is going to do, before the matter is brought before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1135	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1138	There is a lot of work to be done, including: the hazard of the CO2 tax at the beginning of the 1990s. But I'm not going into that discussion. The Minister of Finance here mentions that user charges must be paid for all types of fuels. That's a principle that we'll probably eventually be able to agree on. But does he also agree that it is absolutely necessary for those types of fuels that are not commercially profitable today, that they have a solid phase-in time, and that the producers who invest in this also have time to further develop the technology, so that they can reduce costs and then become competitive without special treatment? Would he also agree that setting the user fee is not an exact science, that perhaps Sweden has found some other way of doing this than in Norway, and perhaps that we can also learn from what is being done in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1150	What must be the somewhat longer-term objective is that the user charge shall be equal to that of the fuel type if the vehicle is otherwise similar. It has to be the long-term horizon. So for a period of time, there are different user charges, some will be exempt, and others may have a certain user charge. This won't happen overnight. There should be an opportunity for a certain phase-in time, but the goal must be that we go there, and then we get to discuss when it's going to happen. So this has one more side, at least if you have very low user charges on alternative fuels, and then it's the CO2 component that's going to determine the CO2 emission charge. If it becomes a very big transition to CO2-free fuel, it will have huge proceeds. So it's also a proceeds side that you also have to include in this total assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1166	I am pleased with the signals that the Minister of Finance gives us when it comes to the fact that we need to have the most predictable system possible. I think it's important for those who are going to bet in this industry, but it's also important for us as consumers. I also agree with the Minister of Finance that fuel itself should be competitive. I agree with that principle, but it's the way we don't live in an ideal world. We want to get there, but then it's kind of getting there. Then we'll need another transitional phase to get to a fuel that's competitive in itself. Will the government add up to it in its overall review – that there is something in the long term that we are coming to the ideal world?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1173	As I said in response to the previous line, I want to assess the time aspect here, because already today there are different treatments for different types of fuel. So it's a natural question that we want to include in the assessment – both if you're going to implement the principle, when it's going to happen, and that there's also a predictable transition to it. But there are different other considerations that you also have to include, for example. Proveny, as I mentioned instead. Then there is also another assessment that is important, and it is whether to use the charging system to stimulate the production or production of special types of fuel, whether to use direct appropriations over the state budget, or whether to have a combination of the two things. There are also issues that will be considered in this context. My aim is to give the Storting a fairly broad basis for discussion. So I hope that we can agree on some long-term principles, which, as far as possible in Stortingen, can end up. This would be good for the development of fuel systems and would be good for the predictability of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1180	In a number of debates in election campaigns and at other times, the red-green parties highlight the importance of being environmentally friendly in their behaviour. So the Minister of Finance emphasises the proceeds effect when he, for example: says you cannot differentiate with the CO2 tax on biofuels because it could mean that the country loses too much revenue if too many use it. Now there is a big wave of plans to use electric cars in Norway. An electric car is likely to use 5 kroner in electricity, where a petrol car spends 25 kroner in petrol. That means that the government on the current gets 2 dollars in income where they get 12 dollars in revenue on petrol, i.e. a reduction of five-sixths. Does it mean, with the signals now given by the Minister of Finance, that if people actually start using electric cars for environmental reasons, an increase in the electricity charge has to be on other things to make sure that the state gets the same proceeds, even if one really has achieved it a claim a will, namely being environmentally friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1190	Now I am not going to pre-empt what will come to the matter we are going to put before the Storting – the broad review – but there are at least four reasons that we have to try to balance up with each other. One is climate and environmental considerations, which are far-reaching. The second is behavior, that is, what kind of vehicle or what kind of way people want to come up with. A third consideration is predictability, which we have been discussing and discussing, and the fourth is, of course, the consideration of the income of the community. Finding the right balance between the four considerations here is difficult, but it will also be necessary for consumers to be prepared to face clear choices, so that they can also make the best environmentally friendly choices. I will not forge any conclusions now, but they will come in good time and in good order.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1195	Governments are balancing between different considerations, and I understand that can be a demanding exercise. At the same time, there must be the possibility to ask, in order to follow up the question of Solvik-Olsen's representative: Is there consideration of the proceeds that will weigh more heavily, or is there consideration of the environment that will weigh more heavily in such an assessment, and does the Ministry of Finance accept that an environmental tax, if it works, will actually play its role over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1200	The last thing that the representative Astrup had in mind is in a way the golden knot of the charging system, namely that in many cases, not only on the environmental side, there is a tax introduced to influence behaviour. When you get certain things on the behavioral side, the proceeds will go down, and it can have other positive effects. So it's not that the Ministry of Finance has some religious relationship with the proceeds of the individual fee, but the Ministry of Finance and most of us may be concerned about, is that the total proceeds that are going to go to all the good ends of the community must be intact. This may mean that the proceeds from some individual fees will go down while others can go up. So it's a total balance. It's not that we have a religious relationship with each fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1207	It is interesting to hear how one in this context emphasises the proceeds when one in all other external contexts, especially in relation to the environmental movement, always hears the environmental arguments. Another angle on that discussion is the load capacity of a car. After today's charging system, if you have a van and only have two seats, it comes out cheaper than if you have seven seats in it, despite the fact that the load capacity – flexibility in the car – is reduced. This means that it can carry fewer people, and it will require that you either have more cars in the household or drive more cars to carry the same number of people. Will that also be taken into account when the government is going to change its policy, so that you don't just favor small, light, kind of tossed, sports cars, while a family that wants to have room for seven comes out very badly and expensively, and like to buy cars that aren't adapted to the need they really have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1215	I did not answer the first part of the representative Astrup's question, but it is that climate and environmental considerations are far-reaching, and then we have to set up the charging system so that we both achieve it and we can also take account of the community's revenues. What the representative Solvik-Olsen is now discussing is one of the things that we will also assess – the relationship between purchase fees and user charges – so the review we are about to have is not just about fuel taxes. There will be a broader review of what can be called ‘vehicle charges’. This issue will also be considered, especially since the relationship between purchase and use fees, as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1222	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2716]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1240	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1249	This case is originally a proposal from the Right for a big message about a holistic energy policy. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, a proposal for the allocation of network costs has become equally important, as is stated in the setting. I feel confident that representatives from the other parties will present their views in the debate, and I am therefore not spending a very long time doing so right now. So I feel confident that there is a common perception that energy policy is very important for the development of society in Norway, that energy is an important asset for business and industry, and that energy is not least important for people and households. I feel that an important background to the proposal from the Right is the need to have long-term energy policy planning and to balance different concerns. The working party shares the view that long-termity, foresight and integrity are important. That is why the Labour Party and the Government have put these very concerns at the heart of energy policy. There is a reason for the government statement that we are following, and it is at the bottom of the actions that we have seen, and the ones that are going on. We've put central pieces in place for the future energy system in Norway, and new ones are coming. We've become a few with the Swedes about a green certificate scheme. We have agreed on marine energy laws, we have increased case management capacity in NVE, we have significantly increased the number of permits for renewable energy production. Statnet has provided ambitious plans for upgrading the central network in Norway, and we have increased support for renewable energy and energy conversion through ENOVA. So we are talking about both short-term and long-term energy policy measures. Then we're going to take a look at the long lines of energy policy. The government has. The government will bring down a selection to look at the development of the energy sector in Norway. Based on the work to be done by this selection, the government will send an energy message to Size. The selection should do a comprehensive job. We're going to get out and evaluate the energy and power balance for Norway by 2030 and 2050. The production of power, the size of the power exchange with the rest of the world and consumption in different sectors are examples of key energy and power balance sizes. The energy balance shall include petroleum industry and energy consumption in the transport sector. Regional energy and power balances shall be assessed in order to assess the long-term need for grid capacity deployment. And one should take power consumption and power access into the assessments where it's natural. The energy and power balance assessments shall be based on different projections of energy development and the resource base. The selection shall identify key factors that will affect the energy and power balance in Norway, including the impacts of climate change. It is a great and extensive work that the government has taken on. Norway is an energy storm power. We export a lot of energy in terms of oil and gas, and we produce a lot of renewable energy. State power is now Europe's leading producer of renewable energy. The working party wants to bring Norway together to one energy kingdom by getting as equal a price of electricity as possible across the country. We will reach our climate commitments, and we will contribute to the development of the energy sector in Norway and Norway's role as energy storm power. In parts of the country, we now have a tense situation in the power system. We have too little power, because there is too little water in the magazine and because it has been a cold winter – both this winter and the previous winter. We take that very seriously. In its letter to the Committee on this matter, the Council of State states that Statnet has launched a series of measures to secure power supply in deferred areas until an increase in transmission capacity is in place. There are measures to increase the use of energy options in consumption, to object to re-consumption in the outsourced area and to increase preparedness to address transmission system errors. In addition, NordPool will now introduce new rules. This implies that producers and network owners need to provide better information on the expected duration of out-of-service capacity, which may have a bearing on the magazine deposit. Statnet also considers that it is possible to seek permanent use of back-up power plants in the event of extensive faults and difficult operational situations. I'm sure the Council of State will be able to do more about it, if it should be. Finally, I would like to take up what is proposed by the government party in the vote that this proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1281	The representative Espen Granberg Johnsen has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1284	This is about overall energy policy. There is a theme that has been a repetition in this room. The Progress Party called for it from the Red-Green Government as early as November 2005. It was rejected and ridiculed, even the Minister of Energy wrote a chronicle in the 2009 election campaign, as a finder on the Central Party website, where he mentioned having an energy message like ‘paperwork’ and ‘bureaucratic’. Today we know that the government has turned this case around, and that is very good. Now he has promised that there will be an energy message, but it will probably not come until 2013, I know the government right, so that it can become an election campaign document without having to prove anything in advance. It's important with the investigation that's promised, but let me hope that what's not happening now is that a lot of big decisions are put on hold. All the challenges are answered with the energy message touching this, and then we are in a political vacuum for two years. But what we also see is that this government has driven energy policy by the input method. Much of that opposition for a long time has called for, one has rejected, and then suddenly and quite surprisingly, one comes with the suggestions themselves. This applies to housing, such as the Stortinge treated a few days ago, the attitudes of Enova and the household support there, in terms of electricity policy, and green certificates – to mention something. It's not a lucky approximation for such a capital and long-term industry as the energy industry is. As an energy nation, we have great challenges ahead of us. We are one of the largest energy nations in Europe. We're gonna be proud of that. However, many still wonder how Norway should deal with the EU's renewable directive. This is no new matter. There is something the government has been doing for a long time, but one has not involved Stortinget, nor has it been able to say what one will – how one will develop power-processing industry, what to do with electrification of the car park, development of infrastructure for the transport of electricity, what one really wants with gas power plants and cleaning after all. Many of these investments depend on each other. We can have big goals with green certificates, but if the infrastructure is not in place so that the power comes to customers who are willing to pay, no one will realize their projects. State power will not expand its projects if only one ends up pushing prices in a market and losing on the portfolio that it already has. We've been throwing away five and a half years with internal wrangling under the red-green government. The case rapporteur tried to get on a list, but what he said is something that everyone in the Storting agrees on. The issue is all that the government has not done. There is enough to refer to the mobile gas power plants mentioned, where the government has chosen to use 2.5 billion. kr to build two mobile gas power plants that one does not want to use. But when Industrial Power Moors come and say they can build gas power plants with full-scale cleaning, and the cleaning plant probably costs less than 2.5 billion. kr, the government sits taus and will not even have dialogue with Siemens and Industriekraft Møre. It testifies to a policy in which society's resources are not used in a sensible way, where problems are not optimally solved, but where an hour-by-hour, month-by-month effort is being made to get internal conflicts away, but is unable to solve them in a long-term way. The Progress Party will develop the energy nation Norway. We have a lot of resources. They must be realized. An energy report must therefore discuss in depth the role of hydropower. There we have a great potential not only in relation to upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower, in relation to facilitating more small power stations, but also in relation to large hydropower, or what is usually politically correct with today's government: medium-sized hydropower, because the time of the great hydropower is over – then we can define what is medium-sized hydropower, as the Minister of Energy does in his speeches. We must dare to take a discussion on what will happen in our protected watercourses when new technologies and new attitudes in the power industry are emerging, and we must discuss how to meet the ideas of being Europe's battery, where it will mean a greater impact on existing hydropower, an approach that was not present when the hydropower plants were built. We must have a careful investment in wind power. Then we have to have realistic goals and not like the government: have big goals that one does not achieve. Stimulation through green certificates is a good approach. There I am glad that the government turned around in its policy, now we get a broad technology neutral bet instead of a bet that would exclude hydropower, but that ended up postponing the entire scheme for five years. We need to have a discussion about how to use the gas in Norway. We're proud to develop it. We have seen that in today's business today from the government's red-green figure in Stortinget, but when it's going to use the gas in Norway, it becomes an action paralysis. How will a few industries develop with Norwegian gas? Alcoa Aluminium is an example that the government does not deal with that discussion. We need to have a good discussion about energy saving and what instruments actually work. Tax incentives are probably better than Enova, if only the government dares to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1305	The right is concerned and has been impatient for a long time after having a debate on a comprehensive energy policy in Norway. At these times, energy policy is high on the agenda in many countries, not least within the EU, which in these days are working on what will be the Union's energy policy for the next decades, while in Norway we have not had the opportunity to discuss an overall energy policy for many years. From Højre's point of view, we believe that this is critical and underestimated both the importance of energy for our energy producers, our industry and individual households, and also the fact that Norway, as an energy tower, has a responsibility to help ensure the stability of supply to our neighbouring countries. It is good that the government has now announced exactly what we are calling for, namely a broad review of the power and energy balance up to 2030 and 2050, and that a sample should be set up to work on these issues on a professional basis. Following the signals from the Minister of Oil and Energy, the selection will also address the link between energy development, opportunities for value creation, employment, skills and technology development. Furthermore, the relationship between energy policy, climate policy and the impact of climate change shall also be part of the mandate to culminate in a key communication on energy policy. It is good, and the desire of this representative has been impressed by the intentions of this proposal, namely to get a comprehensive impact report on energy policy, where energy supply, climate challenge and industrial development are seen in a context. We regret, however, that such a big message is late. The work of the Energy Committee will be completed in the winter of 2012 and that probably means that the Stortinget will receive an energy report in the autumn of 2012. However, there is one aspect of energy policy that, in the opinion of the Right, there is an urgent need to debate, and that is network policy. We know that Statnett has large investment plans in the years to come, and several projects have been heavily debated. This concerns issues relating to the need for new transmission lines, trasé and technology choices, but also the cost allocation of these investments. Today, the cost distribution of domestic transfers is about. 25 pst. in the case of energy producers, the corresponding proportion of large industrial consumers, while approximately the same proportion of large industrial consumers. half are covered by households. It has in the coolant of, among others. electrification projects on the base and large domestic industrial projects have been asked whether these operators and energy producers should contribute more to the financing of networks. Although due to low rainfall and two cold winters we have low magazine filling and high imports, in the next few years we are likely to move in a direction with additional excess of electricity and increased need for exports. The creation of a single market for green certificates with Sweden from 2012 onwards and the ambition to total 26.4 TWh new renewable power generation will contribute in this direction. In addition, we do not yet know what will result from the negotiations with the EU on the renewable directive, but we must expect that this will also require increased production in Norway. As a result, the need for foreign links will also increase, as increased production requires a market. In order to get this flow to our neighbouring countries, we need, in addition to international connections, to upgrade some infrastructure domestically. The question arises as to whether it is reasonable for Norwegian households and power-processing industries to contribute to the financing of this part of the network investment or whether energy producers should take a greater part of that bill. The right has not taken a decision on the optimal distribution of costs. Increased capacity to the rest of the world also means increased import opportunities when domestic price levels and domestic energy needs are at the ready. Thus, it is easy to see arguments that the possibility of reasonable imports during daily periods is where, for example: Europe’s wind production produces more than it consumes, offers opportunities for cheaper electricity to both Norwegian industry and Norwegian households. Furthermore, such a situation will also help to strengthen our security of supply, which is important in a country such as Norway with such high levels of hydropower generation and dependence on rainfall. This also benefits Norwegian electricity customers. However, we want a discussion about the cost allocation and have therefore – together with the other opposition parties – proposed that the government should present a case to the Storting in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1322	The overall energy policy of the Government Declaration is firm. Norway shall be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. We're going to develop technologies that help bring down the world's emissions, and we're going to make sure that the power comes out where it's needed. Therefore, renewable energy production is at the heart of the Central Party’s policy. The world already has a strong need for renewable energy, and Norway needs to use its fantastic natural resources to produce clean power. At the same time, we are building a foundation that is solid enough for Norway to remain an energy storm power when the oil and gas end. The centre party will facilitate the green jobs of the future. We will allow for a forward-looking transformation of Norwegian business, and we want the industry to have access to ample clean power. Once the world has a binding climate agreement, access to zero-emission energy will in itself be a competitive advantage. The centre party will work towards the development of our renewable energy production. The Marine Energy Act was a central milestone. Renewable offshore power generation represents an almost unlimited reserve of power. In addition to its own use, it may also facilitate exports of clean marine energy to Europe. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates is also an important step in the right direction. The agreement will generate clean power corresponding to eight gas power stations. The power situation in central Norway and the mountainous region well illustrates why the centre party will significantly strengthen the transmission system. The force must reach where it is needed. Renewable power generation must be able to connect on the network. Therefore, the government is working to assess the legislation relating to network regulation, tariffs and plant contributions. In order, inter alia, to: security of supply and the possibility of integrating a greater share of renewable energy into the network, the government has also strengthened the external transmission links. In addition, a number of measures have been put in place to ensure electricity supply in vulnerable areas in Norway and a power supply cycle has been set up to improve the situation both in the mountainous region and in central Norway. We also need to use the current more effectively in the future. This is why the government's massive effort to improve energy efficiency is very important. In other words, the government has worked on the issues raised in the draft representative, on the basis of the government statement, which is valid until 2013. The government, as several have mentioned, has announced that it will promote a key communication on energy policy, which will look forward to the future, and evaluate and assess the energy and power balance for Norway by 2030 and 2050. This is an important work for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1337	I will initially refer to my reply to the Storting on this matter, and the discussion in Stortinget on a big deal about the state of energy of the state of the state of the state of the state on 16 December 2010. As I explained in my contribution then, the government will promote a big message about energy policy. In this connection I also refer to the press release from my department on 13 December last year. In this context, I would like to stress that the government, through its policy platform for the period 2009-2013, has drawn up a comprehensive policy for this major period. This policy is firm. For the government, therefore, the natural time perspective for an energy notification will be the design of energy policy for the years to come after this large-scale period. In order to have the best possible basis for such an energy message, we are in the process of reducing a wide-ranging range of energy sources in these days. The selection shall identify and assess the long-term energy and power balance for Norway until 2030 and 2050. The sample shall identify key factors affecting the energy and power balance. This applies, inter alia, to: production, consumption, network deployment, power exchange with the rest of the world and the impacts of climate change. From a long-term perspective, it would also be natural for the sample to look at developments where energy policy is not bound by current framework conditions. The selection shall further assess the coherence between energy development and the potential for value creation, employment and the development of skills and technologies in different sectors. The work of the sample shall be completed in the winter of 2012. I expect that the report of the sample will be an important basis for further work on the energy message. A main purpose of this Communication will be to provide the basis for a new, forward-looking and broad energy policy platform. This will enable us to meet the challenges in the energy sector in the decades to come. Such a message will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss our future energy policy, including: Energy supply, climate challenges and industrial development can be seen in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1358	One might say a lot strange when the government says that their policy is firm, because the government has made big changes to it since that policy was abandoned. For example, the wind energy targets that one has stood behind have been scrapped, one has changed the policy on Kårstø, one has changed the policy on Mongstad, and one has changed the policy on green certificates, etc. I won't necessarily twist the knife any more in the wound, but just point out that it's empty rhetoric to bring such things. But it is a concrete issue that I would like the government to assess. The industry wants to invest in Norway, for example Alcoa Aluminium, which requires considerable amounts of energy, and today's government has said that it was a mistake that Hydro got invested in Middle Norway, that Worm Lange was built in Middle Norway without securing the power supply. How can Alcoa with today's policy itself secure its own power supply if they build an aluminium plant in Finnmark? Is it possible without building wind power, which is not very optimal for an aluminium mill?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1366	Finally, I don't think I'm going to go in and process any applications that come in the field of energy production, and industry, which is also partly located outside my department – that's the actual production. But I would like to make a comment on what the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, started to say, that goals are abandoned and policies changed, and where wind power is brought forward as the first example. I think it's interesting that it's being done, because what's real is: Yes, an ambitious goal set on wind. What did we see during the period? Well, it was that cost development went to heaven, that there was extreme cost development on the wind. What was done? Well, one went into the projects and looked at the possibilities of cost reductions, then at the opportunities to get, I'd say a healthier wind power industry in Norway in the future. It has to be a proper approach, and not just leave off to relate to it as one as the process went its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1371	In the context of the Committee's examination of this matter, we received a letter of response from the Council of State on 8 December, where the Council of State writes: ‘A separate notification of a comprehensive energy policy is therefore not currently in force.’ Just five days later, 13 December, we receive a press release from the same government council saying that a sample is now being set down, and that a complete energy message is on the way. My question to the Council of State is: what has happened during these five days, which has so fundamentally changed the Council of State's view of the need for an overall energy message?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1383	There is nothing other than the fact that the current policy applies until a new policy has been developed, in place, and that was also the situation here. At the moment that the framework and process around an energy message and also an energy selection were in place, it was informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1388	A lot must have happened that weekend, then, from this Wednesday to this Monday – but now leave it. We were informed on 13 December that an energy sample would be set up. The Council of State said that ‘in these days’, this sample is about to be reduced. The case-rapporteur for this case said that "you want to put down a selection". We know something about the width of this sample, because it says in the press release, but the question is when the sample is reduced, so that it starts and the Stortinget can get the case that was notified in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1393	I can assure the representative Hemdal that this sample will be in place in a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1398	The central party representative Knut Magnus Olsen was concerned that renewable energy was very important, and I fully share that view. But what was not mentioned, as far as I heard, was hydropower. It must be the best and the most reasonable renewable part, and we still have a lot left in the country that can be expanded. Olsen mentioned especially windmills at sea; he thought that it could be a good giver of energy. I share the views of the Council of State on wind turbines. It can be assumed that we will receive energy at a competitive price for this country, for example. in 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1403	I did not see anything in Mr. Olsen's post that I did not agree with or share my view. But just to confirm or underline my thinking about what was brought up here: I am first of all concerned with the continuous realisation of good hydropower projects, and that is why we have done everything that others have mentioned earlier here today, whether it concerns concession treatment or the focus on line construction – at all having the framework for hydropower development in Norway in place. Green certificates are a very good example of that too. As far as offshore wind power is concerned, I have also expressed my view of that earlier from this pulpit. I believe that the potential, which the representative Olsen had in mind, is enormous. The costs are currently too high and the technology is too immature, so we have a long, long way to go. But one place starts this process, and that's what we've now done. And I think that in some time we're going to see a significant energy production from windmills to sea outside Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1410	I think this round really just reflects how the government is more driving propaganda than real policy content. Because in its first exchange of lines, the Council of State spoke of the rightness of changing policies when a prerequisite changes, and I fully agree with that. The point was that the Council of State first said that the policy was firm, and then admitted that it has changed significantly. That's what you call a broad focus on the truth and not a narrow one. So green certificates were a bad tool for hydropower at first, but then the government changed policy and has done what the Progress Party and the opposition want, that is, that hydropower should be part of green certificates. But as far as industry is concerned, I did not ask the Council of State to accept an application from the industry for power supply for its new production; I just asked him to outline whether there are possibilities for the industry to expand its own power. Because we know that hydropower is not allowed to expand any longer, after the government's change to the law of the fall-back, nor gas power, unless one has cleaning, and there is no commercial technology in place today. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1419	There is nothing more to add to it than the representative of Solvik-Olsen just said. What is the current policy, I think, is quite clear and clear. This means that if different types of proposals are made in connection with concession applications for industrial establishment in Norway, it will be considered. However, what is the framework for power generation in Norway today, I believe, to say the least, is relatively well clarified and made clear through different concession applications and different documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1424	So the chord change is over. The next speaker is Henning Skumsvoll, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1429	Norway is an energy storm power. By exploiting the hydropower to produce electricity, we became a large producer of metals and other products. In several of these areas, we are world leaders, and we undoubtedly have the most environmentally friendly process industry in the world. Our country is in the lucky situation that we have large energy sources. Hydropower, oil and gas are mature forms of energy that have given the country high incomes and resulted in a high standard of living. Wind power, geothermal, solar, bioenergy and waves and tides, etc. are all energy sources that can be developed over time. Oil and gas are the only non-renewable energy carriers. Environmentally, oil and gas are preferred to coal, although all three emit CO2 during combustion. However, the International Energy Agency, the IEA, points out that Norway’s best contribution to reducing CO2 emissions over the next 20 years is to produce as much gas and oil as possible. In particular, gas will reduce the use of coal-fired power plants in Europe, thereby reducing CO2 emissions by up to 70 pst. The 2008 climate agreement, on which all political parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, were involved, requires a reduction in CO2 emissions of up to 17 million. tonnes by 2020. So much emission reductions mean that we cannot use gas for power supply until clean-up techniques are available. It puts an end to the industrial development of Alcoa's aluminiumworks in Finnmark and Ironman's pellet mill in More and Romesdal. The Progress Party is concerned about the development of new power-processing industries. As long as we maintain the requirement for CO2 clean-up from day one, companies will move out of Norway, and we get what the EU describes as carbon leakage and lost jobs. Hydro's work in Qatar is a good example of this. Today only 1-2 pst is used. of Norwegian gas in Norway. While the EU considers gas power plants to be low-polluting, the government regards this type of power plant as undesirable. An energy notification must also include research, development and use of gas in Norway. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for an overall energy plan from the government so that we can see the relationship between energy, industry and the environment. The answers have been that the government wants to address the problems in the energy sector instead of making bureaucratic plans. It was therefore gratifying when, on 13 December 2010, the Minister of Oil and Energy announced a broad review of the power and energy balance in a separate energy message. A broad range shall look at this. There is also a need for a different approach from the current approach from the Government of the Energy Communication. If not, large parts of the power-processing industry will move out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1466	The next speaker is Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik. Kvalvik has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes as SV has not spoken earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1469	We have heard that the government has set up a wide-ranging energy selection, including: from the trade, energy and environmental movement, which we hope will provide a good knowledge base for the long-term energy and power balance and factors affecting it. This will be followed by a major message to look at energy production, energy networks, energy consumption, climate, environment and business development in the context. It's very positive. The new NOU is then the first professional and global energy review in ten years. At the same time, we would stress that there are challenges in the sector, in particular related to security of supply and power imbalance. There are things that we're coming back to today. I would also like to say that there is a great relationship between all the issues being debated in this round. We're going to look at energy in a broader perspective than electricity. We can't just think of power and power supply, but we have to look at the total energy use. It is said that the most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that is not produced, and that the largest built-in power plant is more environmentally efficient energy use. I think that's quite right. Therefore, we should not forget that the most important thing is to reduce fossil energy consumption, for example. by cutting out oil firing in public and private buildings. It is also important to reduce the large waste of energy and to reap the benefits of energy efficiency improvement. As we have heard from several of us here today, this government has done a lot to raise renewable production, among other things. by doubling the allocation of Enova. Government has got more money, and they're going to work with heavy investments in renewable energy. It's very positive. In December, the agreement with Sweden on the electricity certificate market was signed. That's a good thing. We expect deployment from 2012, and then one can well count on something like the effect of ten Mongstad power plants. We might have a good use for that, and I look forward to getting it on the rails. So if we're going to have enough energy supply, we're going to have to expand the power grid. It has been a neglected area since the new law of force came in 1991. There are a number of supply lines that are now to be upgraded and reinforced. It is also important to make use of the large renewable energy potential around the country. The network situation we have today is demanding in terms of renewable energy. It's actually not possible to apply this new force. It kind of gets locked in and doesn't get out where it's needed the most. Finally, I want to mention one thing that I think is a little bit important, and that is that when new lines are planned, we have to get good processes, with broad involvement, to ensure the optimal solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1486	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1489	The energy country of Norway is one of the largest suppliers of energy, and we all know that the need in the world is increasing year by year. We are high in fossil energy, and almost self-sufficient in renewable energy through hydropower expansion, which has helped to build the well-being that we know today, on a monthly basis. But today we also see major weaknesses in the infrastructure, especially before power distribution, where many smaller producers are now waiting to deliver their production. This is particularly bad, because several of these could just be suppliers in that part of the country where the deficiency is greatest. I have been contacted by a number of local developers, who with great frustration tell us that they do not get their power plants started due to a lack of capacity on the network. And all of these are located in Middle Norway. I'm glad of the alert energy message. But she's too late, and today we're in the middle of a situation that could have been avoided if one had previously entered and seen the need for a holistic, long-term energy message. Then it's said here from the Chair of the Socialist Left Party that the most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that's not produced. At the same time, we know that to lift the world's poor out of poverty, there is just energy that needs to be. And the Socialist Left Party's answer is that this kilowatt hour shouldn't be produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1500	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2716]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1516	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Kvalvik, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1527	It is true that it is Serigstad Valen who has been the rapporteur on the matter until now. The imbalance we are now seeing in Central Norway is clearly related to the establishment of Hydro in Sunndal and then the Worm Lange in Nyhavna. This I'm going to use part of my post on. But first I have to say that it seems that the committee has worked well, and finally I have made a proposal to which I would recommend the Stortinget to join. The party that strongly warned against the establishment of the Worm Lange – the party I represent – had in its time, in the Inner East. S No 159 for 2003–2004, notes, which read: ‘There is also reason to point out that the expansion of the Worm Lange will increase power consumption by approximately 2 to 2,6 TWh — in an area that already has a significant undercoverage of power, and where there is already a monthly threat of rationalisation in dry years. It may seem that the power grid in the area is dimensioned for the future construction of gas power plants, without being mentioned in the proposition. [[...]] These members of my great order investment have to be burdened on the builder and not society otherwise. Network deployment costs shall, in principle, be borne by the one triggering the cost through civil engineering contributions.’;» We can no doubt agree that SV was relatively accurate in his comments on the matter. By means of the climate agreement, all parties, except the Advance Party, agree to cut between 15 million and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 by 2020, including forest. If we open to several gas plants without cleaning from the first day, it will result in new large point emissions. If the energy sector is to increase its emissions by several million tonnes, other sectors will have to cut accordingly in order for us to achieve the emission targets. So I'd say I'm a little surprised at the party right there. I have noted that the Right expresses its dissatisfaction with the government's pace in national emission reductions, while saying that increased emissions in Norway are not so dangerous. They'll solve it all by showing that we want to be subject to the single European allowance system and can buy EEA area allowances, similar to the emissions of new Norwegian gas power plants. Like the Advance Party, the Right has proposed to lift the requirement for purification from the first day. We can't be in on that. We are dedicated to speeding up gas power plants with CO2 handling. Only in 2011 is 2,7 billion inserted. kr to an exciting and important technology centre in Mongstad. The project at Mongstad is a global pioneer work that we have not intended to give up. On the contrary, we want it to succeed. But this should not prevent us from contributing to the realization of other gas power plants, with purification, elsewhere in the country. Fortunately, there is a major development in technology, while there is hope that prices will fall. Just by sticking to the day-to-day clean-up requirement, we get the necessary efforts on research and development that will provide us with sustainable solutions for the capture and clean-up of CO2. As I said, the majority in the committee are the Stortinget to support the motion for a resolution of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1565	The concession policy for gas power plants is firm. All the parties at Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, are behind the climate agreement, which makes great demands on us all to think about climate policy in the context of energy policy as well as in other areas of society. Today, we see that climate policy and energy policy are becoming increasingly intertwined. If we are to have the opportunity to achieve our climate objectives, we must demand the purification of gas power plants. The government's gas concession policy lies in the Soria Moria declaration and rests on the climate agreement. It is not appropriate to depart from this policy. It is important to stress that the Workers' Party and the Government take the situation in the power sector most seriously. The power and situation of the power market are an important framework condition for all industrial activities and industries in the country and for households. We have too little water in the warehouses today. When the latest magazine filling numbers were published on Wednesday, we noted a filling rate of 29.9 p.m. This is very low. We view this as a serious situation. For us, the solution to the problems we are now facing is three-thirds: We have to produce more power. We have to reduce the consumption of electricity through ENEKE. We need to build up and upgrade the power grid in Norway. I am pleased that the government is showing action and implementing measures in all these three areas. We have doubled the efforts for renewable energy production, we have considerably increased support for Enova in recent years, and Statnett has a very ambitious network development plan in Norway. It is important that we get a quick solution to the power transmission issues that are now being discussed – Sima – Samnanger and Ørskog – Sogndal. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates is a historic agreement. It provides the basis for 26.3 renewable TWh. This is very impressive. The 13 TWh coming in Norway will make a major and good contribution to the power situation in Norway. This is power that does not go at the expense of climate, and that helps us achieve our goals of increasing renewable energy production. In the case of gas power plants, proposals for gas power stations without cleaning are promoted at regular intervals here in the hall. Gas-fired power plants, even without purification, are difficult economic projects in Norway in the normal year. The working party’s policy in the case of gas power plants is clear – it must be cleaned. I experience the debate on gas power plants in Norway as a derailment of the debate. We need more power production in Norway – yes, we do. But we need to be able to do so within the framework of climate policy. New forms of energy represent an opportunity for a new growth industry in Norway. All the parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, are involved in the climate agreement. It will be extremely difficult to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement if we are to expand unpolluted gas power beyond what already exists. We have seen some gliding from the Right in this matter. Is that how it's going to be when the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to write together? Is it the case that the Right is still in charge of the climate agreement, or is it to be sacrificed for cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1603	I am addressing the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting. Then I react a little to the post from the previous speaker, for if the government and the red-green parties had taken the force situation seriously, the representative Sund had not kept the post she held. Gas power policy is solid, she says. Well, that gives us great optimism, because we see that very much of the other thing that has also been fixed has changed when the realities finally come to terms with the government. Let's just hope it doesn't take too long. We have to be able to solve the power situation without gas, said the representative Sund. Yeah, that's a good option. If one says no to the good industrial projects coming to Norway, one can at least help solve the power situation. But for me and for the Progress Party it is far more important to further develop Norwegian industry. When it requires the use of gas, as a large and proud gas nation, we shall be positive for it, and do not try to hide it by sending it out of the country. It is completely pointless to say that Alcoa can buy Snow White gas, but they must compress it to LNG and send it to another country to burn it, rather than burn it in Norway. There is no global environmental impact if you burn gas in Norway rather than abroad, but it has a major impact on Norwegian industrial policy and the legitimacy of Norwegian gas production if you prefer to use it in Norway. So there's an explanation needs for the government, and it doesn't affect the representative Sund at all. So we're exporting gas corresponding to 200 gas power stations to the continent, and we're proud of it. So later the representative Sund in some debates as if we were exporting gas to replace coal and not importing gas power back to Norway. Well, we're actually doing it. The representative Sund should know that we are importing electricity from more countries than Sweden. Unfortunately, gas power policy shows that gas is undesirable. We should change that, and that is why the Progress Party is promoting this proposal. This goes beyond its own power supply and beyond its own industrial development. It's pointless when the government has a policy where you're going to electrify more of the Norwegian base in order to be able to send more gas to the continent, then import more power back again that's going to the same platforms. Have you not learned from the mistakes we made on the Worm Lange and on the Hydro Sunndal when you allowed to expand more industry without allowing them to expand the power generation? SV is right in its position, but SV is far from coming with the whole truth. The Progress Party also warned against the situation. But unlike SV, we didn't want to scrape the Worm Lange. We wanted to realize the Worm Lange, but also to realize the power generation. There it's not just to owe the Bondevik government that it turned out the way it was. There is a similar responsibility for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, because the Centre Party did not promote any alternative proposals for the Bondevik Government. So the collective responsibility lies in this room. This is not something that just goes back to 2005 and the government change. It goes back further than that. But the bulk of the population that sits today had exactly the same solutions then – that created the problem. Alcoa Aluminium is an excellent example of the paradox of Norwegian gas power policy. Today's councillor was present when Hydro opened up in Qatar, but he refused to build Alcoa accordingly. In the previous debate, on the Energy Communication, the Council of State confirms that you are going to bring industry to Norway, you have no other way of securing your energy than going into the power market. So we're talking about building a CO2 cleaning plant. A one-sponsored dump has supported the Mongstad test centre. We hope we succeed, because we spend a lot of money there. But when there are other actors who say that they can build full scale cleaning better, faster and cheaper than in Mongstad, this government turns its back on. Then moon landing is not so important. When a company like Siemens says that they actually think they've found the full-scale solution – which could actually be used on Alcoa, for a place you have to build it out on first, you don't build it on many places parallel – the government didn't come to the rescue with a crown or lifted a single finger to help them. There was no support from the government, and today, Industrikraft Møre has complained about this case to ESA. It says a little about how the government is a stopper – not only for gas power without cleaning, but also for gas power plants with cleaning – rather than a facilitator. It is really remarkable that the government parties reject this proposal, because what we are proposing is really what the government has done in Mongstad. It is to build gas power plants with the technology that exists today and to facilitate clean-up when that technology is ready. The government has done that in Mongstad, and the government made a fool of it. I'm really happy about that. But when other parts of Norway need such solutions, the government puts itself on its symbolic horse and lets nothing happen. It's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1634	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1637	The debate on gas power plants in Norway is in many ways a discussion full of what many will perceive as double-ethnic attitudes. Norway, as a major energy supplier of gas for, inter alia, Europe, working towards greater use of natural gas rather than coal from an environmental point of view. Gas has less than half as much climate emissions as coal, and it is even claimed from some that the EU could meet its climate obligations only by converting from coal to gas in its electricity supply. While gas is marketed as environmentally friendly in other countries, we have a somewhat strange debate in Norway about the creation of gas power plants. From a security of supply point of view, it makes sense to establish forms of energy production other than hydropower, which will make us less vulnerable to river change. Gas power is such an alternative. In a global climate change context, it means nothing if the gas is burned in Norway or if it happens in another country. In addition, gas incinerated in Norway must purchase allowances in a single European market. There are currently no formal requirements for CO2 clean-up of gas power plants in Norway provided for in the concession law under the Energy Act or in the case of emission permits under the Pollution Act. However, as the proposers point out, it is politically decided by the current government that all new gas power plants should have CO2 cleaning and landfill from start-up. This requirement makes it extremely difficult, probably impossible, to establish new gas power plants in Norway. For example, we got this week when Industrikraft Møre put his plans for gas power plants on Elnesvågen on ice until further notice because it is not commercially possible to meet the first day's requirements for clean-up by the authorities without the state being involved and assuming financial responsibility for the extra costs of cleaning and responsibility for the infrastructure for landfilling. Right wants new gas power plants to facilitate cleaning, but we will not impose cleaning on start-up until this technology is commercially available. Any pre-clearance requirements would have to result in the State taking a share of these additional costs. This is also a natural consequence of the climate agreement. Although the establishment of gas power plants in Norway will have no impact on global greenhouse gas emissions, achieving the objectives of our national climate agreement will make it more challenging. By allowing larger emission points, we will have to contribute further in other sectors to reach our climate commitments by 2020. It is then natural, in our opinion, that the State assumes responsibility for the additional costs of cleaning, as well as for facilitating the transport and landfill of CO2. Since the Mongstad Government's moon landing project is both exposed and expected to have a high cost framework, the Right has arranged to move the clean-up project out of Mongstad and rather support purification by setting up gas power plants elsewhere in the country. This could be done, for example, by: be the project that Industrialkraft Møre has now had to put on ice since they were refused their request for State participation in this project. The right considers that no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are to be imposed than is common for gas producers in other EEA countries. Gas power stations in Norway will be subject to the single European quota system. Therefore, emissions of CO2 from gas power plants in Norway will not affect the total emissions of CO2 from the EEA territory. The reason why we do not join the Progress Party proposal is that there is nothing in the law today that suggests that gas power plants cannot be built without CO2 cleaning from the start-up. These are, as I said, signals given in the political platform of the Stoltenberg II government. Finally, on behalf of the Right, I would like to make our proposal that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1674	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1677	The central party's policy is firm. We will demand CO2 cleaning on all new power plants. The proposers claim that the government's concession requirements for gas power plants are unreasonably strict. I disagree. Norway is on the green branch purely energy-efficient. About 60 pst. of our total energy consumption comes from the emission-free power. We have almost unlimited marine energy resources, and our natural advantage gives us a great deal of energy from hydropower plants. In addition, we have unused bioenergy resources. In other words, we have access to renewable energy that goes far beyond what other countries have. Therefore, we insist that gas power should not be built without purification in Norway. The polluter-pays principle must be based. In addition, in some countries, gas power may replace more polluting coal power, which has also been mentioned here today. For Norway, such a choice can be difficult to defend. Here we have every opportunity to give priority to renewable energy production. Gas power without cleaning is, how to turn and turn on it, a big step back for the climate. However, we choose to invest considerable resources to develop technologies for the capture and storage of CO2 from Mongstad, precisely because we will help to develop this most necessary technology. It's important for the gas power plants we already have, but not least because the technology itself is important to bring down world emissions. We are not going beyond the capture and storage of greenhouse gases, we are going to achieve the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1694	In a global context, increased use of gas for power generation means a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The assumption for this calculation is that the gas will be replaced by coal or oil as an energy source. The fact that gas is a more environmentally friendly alternative than coal and oil is a broad consensus. This is also an important argument that Norway should continue to make strong efforts to maintain its position as a large and stable supplier of gas to Europe. However, increased use of gas for energy production in Norway will have a negative impact. This will lead to an increase in national greenhouse gas emissions, which in case of reduced emissions had to be compensated elsewhere in the world. We know what the final sum is in 2020. There is a reduction in CO2 between 15 million and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In a normal year, Norway is self-sufficient in electricity from clean, renewable energy sources, mainly hydropower. The potential for increased energy production from renewable sources such as small power, wind power, hydropower, wave and tidal power is very high in Norway, which argues that Norway should not need to allow the construction of several unclean gas power plants. Today's strenuous power situation is caused by long-term activism in energy policy, both in terms of network and production. The solution to this is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, not to create a new Mongstad or Kårstø – gas power plant that is currently without cleaning. In the climate agreement, a broad majority of the United Kingdom has decided to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 by 2020. This objective cannot be met if Norway allows a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions through the construction of new uncleaned gas power plants. If we are to achieve the objective of the climate agreement, the challenge is to get the gas power plants that are already in operation today – Mongstad, Kårstø and Snow White. The Christian People's Party is not impressed by the government's work on CO2 management so far. The alerted moon landing has encountered significant challenges. Mongstad history is going to shape the government's legacy, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The Christian People's Party believes that the problems we have in Mongstad open up so that the moon landing should be moved elsewhere in the country. In particular, if the Mongstad project appears to be being pushed out in time, perhaps beyond 2020, the government should open up to take the bill for CO2 cleaning elsewhere in the country through a new gas power plant with CO2 cleaning. We already know here the answer to this wish after the treatment that Industrikraft Møre has received in connection with the question of obtaining financial support to bear the cost of cleaning that gas power plant. The Christian People's Party feels that it is sad that the government was not at this stage willing to use the financial resources needed by the facility. Although we want a possible moon landing to be moved to another place in the country, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that we want to have cleaning both on Kårstø and on Mongstad. It has to be fixed, so that we can get an important calculation to go up, which is a reduction of 15 to 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1731	Energy production in the world is dominated by fossil energy sources, and if emissions from these fuels continue, they will have dramatic effects. The consequences will include, inter alia: be the melting of ice and increased sea levels, floods and more storms, the reduction of plant and animal species and tropical forests, and the negative impact on water and food supply. Even the EU and Norway’s objective of limiting the global average temperature increase by two degrees will have significant impacts on terrestrial ecosystems and regions, and a significantly higher temperature increase in e.g. The Arctic. Despite the fact that the carbon intensity of world energy consumption has dropped by about 35 pst. over the last 120 years, total CO2 emissions have increased dramatically. The world's total CO2 emissions are now in excess of 30 000 million. tonnes per year and increases by approximately 2.5 pst. every year. These developments are expected to continue, while dramatic cuts are required. From a perspective, Norway has, for example, in the Sleipner field in the North Sea since 1996 deposited 1 million. tonnes per year. Only to keep the growth of global emissions down, 750 new storage projects of this size are needed annually. So this will only be able to stabilize the emissions, while they have to be reduced by 80 pst. The climate challenge appears to be almost insurmountable, but a small factor in all projections is that an ever-increasing share of future emission sources has not yet been created. So you have a choice, and if you build all the new plants clean, the emissions will slowly but surely sink. In addition, existing emission sources can be purified. CO2 clean-up, and a consistent choice of clean energy and transport solutions rather than polluting, is no longer an option, but a commitment to avoiding the worst impacts of climate change. That is why I would like to congratulate the government on the fact that all new gas power plants in Norway are to be cleaned from day one. It is only through such a climate policy that climate change can be addressed, and it is through such a policy that one can become a leading climate nation. With such a policy, we can concentrate on reducing emissions from already existing sources, and we hope – although we may not believe – that they will be duly addressed, with sufficient means, in the coming climate communication. The processes of Kårstø and Mongstad are well enough examples of our not excessive positiveism. Since fossil energy consumption is likely to be high even in the coming years, it is important to make the most of fossil energy use without emissions. It is in this perspective that the technology for the capture and storage of CO2 is crucial if we are able to cut greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently to avoid the most dramatic impacts of climate change. Due to the time perspective for phase-out of fossil energy sources as is currently the case, both CO2 capture, renewable energy and energy efficiency are needed to address the climate problem. Finally, this post could also have been kept in case No. 8, about the energy situation in Central Norway, and in case no. 9, on the start-up of the mobile gas power plants. That is why I warn you that this post also applies to these matters. However, when we are going to vote with the proposers on case No. 8, it is not to put in place highly polluting gas power plants, but to get the opportunity to raise the renewables of the Left in the debate on the energy situation in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1766	Then the representative Borghild Tenden made comments on case No. 7, 8 and 9, as far as the president knew. Efficiency is called.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1769	I intend to come back also in the next cases, but I would point out that in the debate on representative proposal 8:32, I would like to comment on some of the questions that lie in the frontier between these issues. I would also like to refer to the answer I gave to the Stortinge in connection with the committee's examination of this matter. Representatives point out that today’s framework conditions are particularly unfortunate in relation to the projects in question in central Norway. In the case of gas power plants in Central Norway, I would like to point out that since 2001 Industrialkraft Mid-Norway has had all the necessary permits to start the construction of the gas power plant in Forest – and that without any requirement for the discussed CO2 management in today's debate. It is a reality that the builder so far has not found profitability in realising these projects and this plan. In the case of Industrikraft Møre, an energy concession was granted through the confirmation of the NVE’s decision by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The energy concession does not require CO2 emissions from the installation. The emissions permit and the issue of the determination and possible changes in CO2 regulation in such cases are under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of the Environment. In line with the government’s policy platform for the period 2009–2013, the government will contribute to the development of forward-looking and efficient technologies so that CO2 management is realised nationally and internationally. The main strategy to achieve this is to build up knowledge and experience from the creation of projects in Norway, as well as to focus on research and development. For new gas power plants in Norway, the government’s political platform follows that the government will grant concessions based on CO2 management from start-up. Norwegian climate policy is based on the basic principle that polluter pays. Nevertheless, when the government uses considerable resources to develop CO2 management technologies in Mongstad, this implies a recognition that administrations must contribute to the development of new technologies at an early stage. There is a major effort to develop and facilitate solutions for the capture, transport and storage of CO2 in Norway. As Stortinget is well known, nearly 2.7 billion has been allocated in the 2011 state budget. kr for CO2 handling. It includes work on projects at Mongstad, research and technology development, international work on CO2 management, Gassnova SF and external assistance related to quality assurance and legal issues. CO2 capture technologies from power generation are still untapped on a larger scale, including worldwide. Realisation of such projects is technically complex and costly. Swallows about the construction work is in full swing at the technology centre and planning of full-scale fishing is ongoing at Mongstad, the concrete effort is still in its initial phase. It is therefore important to be able to take advantage of the practical experience gained from the existing investment in Mongstad. In addition to this work, knowledge and experience from transport and storage activities, and from the efforts of CLIMIT to research and development of capture technologies, will form the basis for further work on CO2 management in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1819	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1822	It is obvious that there are many people who are now keeping a close eye on the water storage line in central Norway, and one of the representatives described it as 29.9. Now one has begun to put the emphasis on what's behind the comma as well. There is a lot of talk about the scarcity of water filling. Security Chief Svein Rødal says that when you get down to 6-7 pst, you start coming down to a critical level. In other words, it's empty. With the consumption we had last year, one will be empty in the critical weeks 15-18. Is there a weather god to save the power supply in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1829	I come back to the question of measures and instruments in Central Norway in one of the following cases, but I would like to say a little about this too. There is no doubt that in a country like Norway, where we have hydropower as the bearer of the power supply, there has been an impact. I'm almost a little surprised if the representative – to say the least – hassles with or ridicules the fact that the weather is important for filling up magazines in Norway. It is a reality. And that's precisely why it's having more legs to stand on by being able to export when the weather makes us have full or crowded magazines, important in the Nordic power market. The same thing is to be able to import, as we've done so far this year, and also a lot last year. So the answer is that weather is important, but energy policy requires much more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1838	The councils were in their posts at Industrikraft Mid-Norway in Skogn, which has a concession without cleaning, but which so far, at least, has chosen not to realise its project. However, it is a good project, from the Right's point of view, that has been agreed between Industrikraft Møre and Siemens. They want to build a full-scale gas power plant with cleaning for approx. 5 B.C.E. kr. My question to the Council of State is whether this really could not be seen as a gift package to the government, when the Mongstad project is likely to end up with a bill that might be up to five times more expensive, and will withdraw in time. Why did the government not choose to look at the opportunity presented jointly by Industrikraft Møre and Siemens to the government on the issue of cleaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1845	As I said in my post, I think we should recognise that technology development in the field of CO2 management is at an early stage. This also means that what we have seen so far in terms of costs has been shown to be the best way to use the word ‘dynamic’. We've seen it at the technology center in Mongstad, and we've seen it in the planning of full-scale facilities in Mongstad, that there's a lot of learning going on. One also sees that costs have increased in the course of the project. I think we must have that recognition with us also in the mention of other projects that have come much shorter, that we will probably see some dynamics, also on the cost side, as the projects become more developed. That being said, I am concerned that we should have good projects on fishing and storage in Norway. The more, the better, if it can be handled financially. In the big message that I am now working on related to this, this will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1855	I experienced the intervention of the Council of State as an attempt to invert the debate. He mentions Industrial Power Mid-Norway, and that it has not been realised, without mentioning that natural power has realised its gas power plant on Kårstø. It is therefore not that it is not profitable to operate gas power plants in Norway, but location and infrastructure around it have a lot to do with this. The government has not lifted a finger to help with the infrastructure in Industrial Power Mid-Norway. State councils should therefore look themselves in the mirror before he says that gas power plants have no point. As far as Mongstad is concerned, I remember that this government itself has exposed the cleaning technology there. It is then unreasonable to require other companies to be able to come up with a cleaning technology when the government itself admits that this is delayed. I would therefore like to follow up the approach of the representative Meling: how does the Council of State think that Industrikraft Møre should be able to meet its obligations, when the Council of State itself does not think it is possible to use that technology in Mongstad – at least – for eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1862	The representative Solvik-Olsen is turning the issue upside down. The starting point here is that this room has taken a decision to reduce CO2 emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes. The representative of Solvik-Olsen may agree or disagree with this – the latter is probably the reality. But that's what the government is working on, reducing Norwegian CO2 emissions. One of the responses to this is to contribute to the deployment of clean-up technologies to clean emissions from gas power plants in Norway and preferably also in other countries. The second is to ensure that no new polluting projects are launched at a time when emissions will decrease by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1876	I noticed the Government's response to my previous line on why the government didn't see the project between Siemens and Industrialkraft Møre as a gift package in relation to getting a clean-up project started; he talks a lot about technology at an early stage and the cost challenge. Between the lines, I read that the Council of State seems to have low confidence in the calculations of a large global group like Siemens. Can the Council confirm that trust in this company is low in terms of technology and costs? In addition, we are also curious about when the Council of State intends to come to Stortinget with a statement or review of what is actually the status and further plans of Mongstad in terms of cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1885	The answer to the last one is that I want to get to the Storting quickly with it. I'm going to get it up to Stortinget, in line with what has been said in previous documents, relatively early in the new year, as it was said at the end of the previous year. It'll be done. The size will have all the opportunity to discuss this on a broad basis, and I think that is important, for me this is a major issue that is partly about energy, partly about climate. The sum of the challenges in these areas is at the very top of the list globally over what needs to be addressed in the future. When it comes to the first question, the answer is no, I don't have low trust in these companies. What I did was just to show the experience we have from the projects that have been developed. We see that there is a lot of technology development going on in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1893	The representative of the Central Party, Knut Magnus Olsen, said, inter alia: gas power without cleaning is a major step backwards for the environment. If the Council of State shares Olsen's view and says that the answer is yes, that's right, I have to ask: what does the Council of State intend to do immediately to stop Norwegian gas plants from destroying the environment? The worst thing you can do is have gas power plants. It destroys the environment. Can we do something about today's three-four Norwegian works, so that the environment does not suffer from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1898	Yes, we're using 2.7 billion in 2011. kr to do something about it. Norway is the world leader in putting in place technologies to clean emissions from gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1903	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1908	Industrial power Morene has been given an energy concession by NVE, based on the government's political platform, which suggests that gas power concessions should be based on the cleaning and landfill of CO2 at start-up. This is basically good, but it is also the case that here one should go in and look at what gives them the right incentive to a future goal that such projects should achieve the objective of being free from pollution through purification and landfill. It is also the case today that there is no formal requirement either in the concession law or in the energy law when it applies emission permits under the pollution law that gas power plants are to be built with CO2 treatment. But in the Soria Moria Declaration, the government partners assume that CO2 should be cleared and deposited from day one, and the Ministry of the Environment does not provide emission permits as a consequence of this. If a reason is added to Stortinget's decision, on the basis of Innst. S. No 122 for 1999-2000, that no more stringent emission requirements should be imposed for greenhouse gases than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries, as the Progress Party states, gas power plants in Norway will be subject to the Common European Greenhouse Gas Emission Quota System (ETS) and will have to purchase allowances in this respect their emissions. Therefore, emissions of CO2 from gas power plants in Norway will not affect the total emissions of CO2 from the EEA territory. Furthermore, there is agreement that increasing the use of gas for power generation in a global context will lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. We are part of the electricity market that imports electricity from the European and Russian markets, and the basis for this is often brown coal or gas. Based on the climate agreement and the realities, the Progress Party in this proposal for a representative describes a procedure such as: will be able to choose in connection with Industrikraft Møre's plans for a gas power plant in Elnesvågen in Fräna. Such a procedure will ensure that new gas power plants can be established in Norway, while not weakening the potential to achieve the emission target of the climate agreement and contributing to the development of capture technologies for CO2 by the State. Technology for the capture of CO2 from gas power plants is still an immature technology, many of which have been involved, and one must expect that the first capture installations will have costs that will far exceed the quota price in the European quota market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1942	Both this and the next debate we need to see in a context. It's also going to be exciting to hear what the Council's answer is when we're going to start discussing in the next case. Last year, Norway had a net import of electricity in order to cope — above 7.5 TWh, possibly more. When you travel around the world by the Norwegian authorities, and in particular Europe, and advertise Norwegian gas, yes, even when you open Norwegian-owned gas power stations in Germany, you just boast that there is environmentally friendly Norwegian gas to be used, which is to be replaced, among other things. for coal. Indeed, it will also be in Norway — it will replace other power generation, preferably from coal and other sources, if we in Norway allow gas power plants without cleaning from the first day. As long as we have a force import, a net import, to Norway, these will, among other things, could be substituted for these imports. Furthermore, if we refer to Industrikraft Møre's desire to start a plant in More and Romesdal, there are several things you could look at. One of them may be able to replace part of the production carried out on the platforms, where it is spread directly to a lower efficiency than one could have obtained at a land site. A plant could also be developed in the course of the process, but due to the rigid concession conditions imposed by the Norwegian authorities, this project is now on ice. The project that has been put on ice is actually one of the projects that a number of environments in Norway have said should be a prototype of the type of facilities that we should try to get started in Norway. It's also quite obvious that there's a similarity between saying no to this type of power generation, and actually seeing that the water reservoirs are going to be greatly reduced, precisely because you don't get an alternative production that allows you to hold back from the water storage to get that safety. That's the big battery we're talking about, which we might be going to be for Europe. When we actually have the opportunity to do that in our own country, we make such strict demands for the cleaning of the facilities from the first day that all that principle falls into fish. I think it's sad what you've seen in the last few days, that Industrikraft Møre has put his project on ice. For this should have been realized, so that also the business community in More and Romesdal and in this area had security of power and energy when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1955	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1971	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e1980	In winter, like last year, there has been a lot of discussion about the power situation. We have a tough situation in the power market with low magazine filling and low temperatures. At the beginning of winter we have received very high prices. In much of the winter, Mid-Norway has so far had higher power prices than the rest of the country. In parts of Norway, in particular Middle Norway, there is a lack of force. This is a situation which we in the Workers' Party and the Government take very seriously. Such society is today, power is a necessary prerequisite for almost all activities, both for industry and at home among people. The policies of the Labour Party and the Government to achieve stable and equal prices of power in Norway are three-fold. First of all, we have to produce more power. Secondly, we need to build more transmission lines to create a smooth flow of power across the country and avoid bottlenecks in the network. Thirdly, we need to invest in anincreased measure, both in industry and not least in households. For the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, it is important that we address these challenges within the framework of the climate agreement, in order to meet the needs of people and industry. With this government, the Enova support and new hydropower concessions have provided the basis for deployments and energy measures of almost 12 TWh. That's a lot. That's approximately equal to that. 18 Alta power plants or enough power for more than half a million households. After the red-green government entered the government offices, we got to, among other things. the following: a doubling of the size of concessions to wind power and hydropower a doubling of the hydropower in production a quadrupling of the district heating input a treble of energy efficiency improvement in industry I am also very pleased that we have now reached an agreement with Sweden on green certificates. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates will provide a total of over 26 TWh new renewable energy in Norway and Sweden – 13 TWh in Norway. These are big numbers. The agreement provides the basis for a large-scale commitment to future energy sources. This will also benefit Middle Norway. This government is taking important steps to improve the power situation in Norway. In addition to the efforts on the support side for new production, the government has doubled the process capacity of the NVE, so that more power deployments can be realised as quickly as possible. It is important to facilitate new power generation. In order to benefit consumers, we need to expand and strengthen the power grid in Norway. It's the government in full swing. I refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee on Energy and the Environment, 15 December 2010. Here, the Councils of State, among other things, are beating. solid: ‘Enlarged investment has been undertaken under the auspices of Statnet to improve the situation. State networks have put in place a number of networks to help keep the voltage in the power grid within acceptable limits This measure to improve the power situation in Central Norway [[...]] [[...]] I want to underline the importance of putting in place the line from Ørskog to Sogndal. This will also improve the situation considerably in Central Norway. The incident in North Norway last week clearly shows that there is a need to strengthen the power grid in Norway in line with Statnet’s network development plan and the adopted cable strategy. I have noticed that there are some people in this room who want to introduce the state we now have in the Trendelag region, in the Bergen area. By spending more time on the Hardanger case, it is also said that the price range in the BKK area will be accepted at periodically very high prices, compared to other parts of the country and low security of supply. The working party takes the power situation in Central Norway very seriously. We are constantly working to put in place more power generation, a better power grid and a strengthening of an additional work. We want the same price of electricity as possible across Norway. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal by the Government parties that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2022	The representative of Tor-Arne Stroem has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2025	Cold winters and little water in the warehouses have resulted in a tight force situation especially in Central Norway. The region suffers from a power loss. The power crisis has resulted in a price in Central Norway that has sometimes been significantly higher than in the rest of the country. In addition, there have been problems with the Nordic electricity market. Swedish nuclear power, which is normally a safe supplier of electricity, has also had problems this year. The strained force situation in Central Norway is not new. The government has been aware since 2005 that the power situation in Central Norway can easily become precarious when the winters are cold and long. Half-full water storage units and cold winters cannot be charged to the government. On the other hand, the government that can be loaded and criticised is that it did not initiate measures as early as 2005. When Stortinget dealt with the issue of the expansion of the Worm Lange in 2004, the Progress Party pointed to the great need for power to expand. The power demand for the Worm Lange was to be met by the regular supply network, although there was already a lack of power in the region at that time. The current Minister of Oil and Energy in 2006 promised that the Ørskog-Fardal power line would be in place in 2011. Today the government says in 2015. The government also promised in 2006 that an action plan for the supply of electricity would be ready by autumn 2006. Four and a half years later, this plan has not been presented, and it is a strong contributory reason for the promotion of this proposal for a representative. The Progress Party has on several occasions asked for an overall energy plan, which would also cover the power situation in Central Norway. The Minister for Oil and Energy has previously rejected such plans as time-consuming and bureaucratic. Instead, the government is taking on important projects. With regard to the power situation in central Norway, it is difficult to see that the government has really taken action here. Without a comprehensive plan of measures and deadlines to improve the power situation, it is difficult to see that the problems can be resolved within a reasonable time. In several nation-wide areas, such as: energy, industry and communications, the government refuses to make plans. The government has rejected the plan requirements that everything is under control and that plans are already enough of them. In a letter dated 15 December 2010, the Minister of Oil and Energy wrote that the main elements of government policy to improve electricity supply in central Norway have been measures directed by Statnet and the commitment to renewable energy and energy conversion. In view of the power situation experienced by Middle Norway in 2011, it is clear that the government’s actions have not been good enough. All the measures referred to by the rapporteur are good measures, but it is clear that they have not yet had an effect. It must be a hope they'll get soon. The new Ørskog-Fardal power line will not be in place until 2015. Small power deployment has been affected by the red-green grant waivers from 2004 and until September 2009. Most people are waiting until 1 January 2012 to see if the green certificates are being implemented as promised. Similarly, several have mentioned that the NVE’s proceedings have been a bottleneck in other cases. The Progress Party, together with other opposition parties, pointed out that Industrialkraft Møre had to receive State aid to build an integrated CO2 cleaning plant together with the planned gas power plant. It is also mentioned by several. The supplier, Siemens, claims that an integrated plant can be built for 3 billion. kr. For the government, anything other than a gas power plant in Mongstad is not applicable, although a planned gas power plant in Elneswagen will remedy the critical power situation in Middle Norway. As an immediate measure, the two mobile gas power plants should also have been started in winter. The government is better at talking about measures to improve the power situation in Central Norway than what is actually shown. The representative's proposal from the Right and the Advance Party is the committee's recommendation to the Stortinget. Unfortunately, this is voted down by the majority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2058	The power situation in Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal has been a hot political theme back to 2005–06 when the Right raised a case on an action plan for the power situation in Central Norway. Had the then-coming oil and energy minister, Odd Roger Enoxen, kept the promise to bring a case to the Storting on such an action plan, it is very likely that we had not had the chaotic situation we see today. It is very regrettable that no such case has yet been submitted to Stortinget. In central Norway, there is today a great need to strengthen the transfer link from both other parts of the country and from Sweden. There is also a strong need to strengthen regional power generation both from gas power plants and from renewable energy sources. It is well known that the planned link between Ørskog and Fardal has been delayed due to strong local resistance to the new line and long processing time in the government. Had the government followed the advice of the Right and other parties on a better web policy, with greater willingness to use cable as a remedy, there could have been a lot of time. In 2006, the present oil and energy minister, Odd Roger Enoksen, promised that the new link would be in place by 2011. Now the government says it will be in place in 2015. That means that the people of Central Norway have to cover themselves in even more winters with sky-high power prices. An important factor in ensuring access to power in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal is greater regional power generation. Industrial power Møre in Elnesvågen is a good example of how short-distance electricity could remedy the situation with large power shortages in the region. It is incredible to witness how this government beats its legs under such an exciting and forward-looking investment in energy production in a sub-area like Mid-Norway. The government has said no to new gas power plants in Central Norway without CO2 treatment, at the same time as one will not finance the costs of such treatment. That's a good example of the red-green government giving with one hand and taking with the other. Right, thinks that the first full-scale facility in Norway for CO2 treatment, funded by the state, should be moved from Mongstad to a better-suited location, and has pointed to Middle Norway as a natural area. Right means that the government has locked itself for too long to the project in Mongstad, and that it has the power to weaken elsewhere in the country. If full scale gas-fired power plants in Norway are to be realised in the next few years, there must be a different location than in Mongstad. The low-emission selection, by Professor Jørgen Randers, has also launched the idea of moving the full-scale capture and storage project of CO2 from the Mongstad gas power plant to a new project. They also point out that a current alternative will be Industrial Power Møre's plans for a gas power plant in Elnesvågen. Industriekraft Møre applied on 1 December 2006 for a plant concession according to the rules of the Energy Act. That application was rejected by the NVE on 5 March 2008. The NVE acknowledges in the rejection that the power plant will be able to improve regional and national security of supply. On 8 April 2008, Industrikraft Møre NVE complained of its refusal to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. On 20 August 2009, the OED held an appeal against the NVE’s decision to reject the energy concession. The concession added CO2 handling from day one. In December 2010, Industriekraft Møre, in cooperation with Siemens, presented a solution for the OED for gas power plants with integrated CO2 capture. The Siemens offer is approx. 5 B.C.E. kr. The cost of the purification plant is estimated to be 2 billion. kr. It is worth noting that the government estimates the total investment costs for full-scale capture and storage of CO2 from the CHP plant in Mongstad to around 20-25 billion. kr. There's a big difference between a price of 25 billion. kr and 5 brd. kr. A press release by Industriekraft Møre dated 22 February of this year announced: ‘In the light of the negative feedback from the authorities, the Industrial Power Authority has decided to continue to work for a gas power plant producing Short-Range power in Freina on ice.’ I wish we could put this government on ice, so that we could solve both the short-range challenges in Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal, and at the same time try out the first full-scale CO2 treatment plant in Norway. It would also be the fastest contribution to solving the challenges of power shortages in the region. Then I'll recommend the setting from the plural in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2121	First, I just want to say that I have quite a sense of the efficiency that the representative Tenden put into practice, to make three posts at the same time, cf. the previous case. It would have been tempting for more. So I'll use this post to talk about Trondheim SmartCity. Trondheim SmartCity is a collaborative project between the municipality of Trondheim, Siemens and Bellona that will help Trondheim become a smarter city in terms of energy use, and it is a perspective you can have with you when you talk about the power situation and conditions in Middle Norway. I allow myself to refer from a report that is made, Energy Efficiency, and that looks like this. It says in a summary: ‘Norway does not achieve its climate obligations without new technologies. The 2007 Energy Efficiency Report, prepared by Bellona and Siemens, showed that Norway can release energy equivalent to 20 % of the electricity consumption, but this is still very low. Perhaps only the good example is missing that it is possible to take advantage of the efficiency potential. That's why Trondheim Municipality has decided to create one. By using energy-efficient technologies, Trondheim can reduce stationary energy consumption by 22 percent. Thus, large amounts of energy can be released by applying modern technologies that are already available today, and energy efficiency can be achieved without going beyond the living standards or comfort of the inhabitants.» So this is the conclusion of this report, and I am surprised that not many have already started the corresponding project. It sounds almost too good to be true, but this energy efficiency can be achieved without a reduced standard of living, and you can actually go out and trade solutions in the store today if you have a power company that can read hourly metering in terms of consumption. So there's a plan made by the government about automatic current measurement, which will be of great help in this. 80 pst. therefore, consumers in the region shall have this flow measurement by the end of 2013. For the rest of the country, it is to be accelerated so that AMS measurement is moved from 2018 to 2016. I think this is something to think about, cf. the problems facing the region, and it will give us better time for other important issues relating to energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2143	Norway experiences high and unstable power prices for other winters. This is a major challenge for both business and individual households. The force situation deteriorated sharply in the 2000s as a result of strong growth in demand for power. In particular, this was linked to the expansion of the aluminium factory on Sunndalsøra and the entry into service of the Worm Lange. Since the government’s accession in 2005, we have taken a number of comprehensive measures to improve the situation. Climate challenges and national emissions reduction obligations must be at the heart of the further development of energy policy. It must be based on increased processing ofrenewable resources and increasedincreased efforts. At the same time, transmission capacity has been improved centrally to target. The objectives of the centre party are sufficient power generation, security of supply and equal prices of power across the country. The power situation in Central Norway is a complex challenge. It is linked to weather and rainfall, power generation and power flows from Sweden, economic growth, energy prices, industrial structure development and energy efficiency improvement. Therefore, a number of different measures are needed to meet it. In recent years, the government has taken several important steps to increase security of supply and energy production. In addition, we focus on remedial measures for those most affected. Therefore, housing support has been increased, and therefore we believe that remedial measures, such as deferred payments at high electricity prices, should continue. At the same time, however, the objective must be that we no longer need remedial measures. Therefore, we need to focus on the development of renewable energy and increased security of supply. We will review the framework conditions for the decommissioning of the power plants. We want the government of the new agreement with Enova to consider changing the objective of also allowing for the strengthening of the supply balance in areas with a strenuous power situation. And if the oil and gas industries are going to expand production in deficit years, they are going to contribute to the financing of development costs as well as more production into the grid. Large investments have been made under the auspices of Statnett, and even more is planned. Import capacity improved. In addition, measures have been put in place to improve the situation in exposed areas before new power lines are in place. One of the main measures to improve the power situation in central Norway is the realisation of a new transmission link between Sogn and Møre. That's why the Center Party is emphasising that we start building on the sections to which little conflict is attached. The line must be in place without unnecessary delay. The focus on energy conversion and renewable energy production has also been strongly strengthened. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates will speed this up further. In addition, the introduction of automatic current measurement has accelerated in mid-Norway, and together with a still large investment on Enova, it will lead us a good way on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2164	Middle Norway is a region with a power loss of nearly 8 TWh. The deficit has increased significantly in recent years as a result of large growth in industrial and petroleum activities without a particular increase in power generation. The increased deficit combined with limited transfer capacity into the area has led to considerable concerns about security of supply in the region. Mid Norway is separated as a separate price range for electricity and has also experienced twice as high electricity prices during periods as in South Norway. At the beginning of 2011, we experienced a power situation in Norway that is more serious than in a long time. The cold winter we're in can give Norway an even more challenging power situation than what we've experienced so far. According to Statnett, the main cause of today's strained power situation is low rainfall, high power consumption and water storage that never got back after last winter. Normal rainfall levels in the future and normal temperatures may take two years before the water storage levels are normalised again. The Christian People's Party believes that the cause of today's power crisis is political neglect and paralysis in energy policy over many years, but primarily because of the policy of the red-green majority over the last five years. Several of the most important long-term measures that have been discussed have either been seriously exposed or have remained in place for many years. We know the history of green certificates. They were supposed to be in place on 1 January 2006, but they will only be in place on 1 January 2012. Two consecutive winter seasons with strenuous power situation and high power prices call for political action. The Christian People's Party believes that it is the long-term measures that will solve the situation we are in. First of all, more renewable power generation needs to be developed. New power lines need to be built that take out the bottlenecks we have in the transmission system. And there needs to be a stronger focus on energy efficiency in buildings. The Christian People's Party also believes that, in the light of all the postponements in Mongstad, the government should open up to take the bill for CO2 cleaning of a new gas power plant in central Norway, provided that the requirement for cleaning from day one is established. A new gas power plant with full clean-up in Central Norway will contribute to new power generation in a region that sorely needs it. It can be read on NRK Møre and Romsdal's websites that the Workers' Party's group leader in the county council believes that the lack of government support means that Industrialkraft Møre's plans for gas power plants in Elnesvågen are now being iced up. He says, ‘This is primarily a failure statement on our self-imposed double standards of gas use.’ Further: ‘I don’t think a person understands how big this setback is. The Worm Lange now enters a phase where one needs much more electrical energy than what you have today. That energy doesn't exist today. Here we had a chance. "Standing on the legs of the energy we need in an alternative way won't be easy," says Aasen." In this debate – and I think we have had it in the last six years – we have always shown that the start of Worm Long Phase 1 may be the cause of some of the challenges we are facing today. Then it is important that we learn some of the story that happened early in the 2000s – that we take lessons, and that we also provide enough energy in this region, so that the Worm Long Phase 2 can possibly start up, and that other industrial projects can also start up in this area, but that it does so through a renewable energy source or clean up the CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2195	I refer you to my letter to Stortinget with my assessment of this matter. I will begin by reminding you of the history of the matter. The situation of power in central Norway deteriorated sharply only in the 2000s as a result of strong growth in demand for power in the region. This was particularly linked to the expansion of the aluminium factory at Sunndalsøra and the entry into service of the Worm Lange. The then government implemented measures to a small extent that could counteract the impact on the power market situation of this strong increase in consumption. The representatives believe that this government has been passive in meeting the challenging power situation in Central Norway. I don't mean it's true. I believe the government has taken the power situation in Central Norway seriously, and that we have implemented comprehensive measures. In addition, we are working on further measures. During this period, we've been working on a strategy with two main elements. One is action by Statnett, the other is commitment to renewable energy and energy conversion. State network actions are the most important to improve the power situation in the region. Statnett has, among other things: implemented comprehensive actions to improve network capacity within and within the region. Through the government’s strong commitment to energy conversion measures, efforts in Central Norway have also increased sharply. In the period 2006-2009, we gave concession three times as much hydropower and concession to two and a half times as much wind power as in the period 2002–2005. The heat output through Enova was greatly increased. Only in 2008 and 2009 did 36 heat projects in the region receive aid. We've been through a lot in the year that's now behind us, 2010. In order to take some of the most important measures in 2010: the transfer link to Sweden via Nea–Järpströmmen was opened. This connection has significantly increased transmission capacity into the area. We're talking about up to 400 MW. Only in 2010 was a final concession granted to 10 hydropower plants. In addition, NVE has granted concession to four wind turbines. At least eight hydropower plants were put into operation in the region at this time. The wind power project in Outer Vicna received approximately 230 million. kr. The biogas plant at Skogn received about 120 million. kr i support. A major energy efficiency project at the Norwegian Forest in the same place was completed. The government also presented a plan to keep up the progress made in the implementation of the Ørskog-Sogndal transmission link. We're going to keep trying to improve the power situation in Middle Norway. Statnett is planning to invest for about 9 billion. kr in the region over the next 10 years. Ørskog – Sogndal is further worked. Realising this project will significantly improve the power situation. A continued investment in Enova, and then a major investment, and the establishment of a common Norwegian-Swedish certification market also facilitates comprehensive results in this area. Then I will also show that in January I asked the NVE to submit proposals to speed up the introduction of automatic current measurement, AMS, in mid-Norway. The proposal includes extended functional requirements for the AMS and requirements for the network operators to facilitate the effective use of this instrument by the customer and service providers. In central Norway, the transmission system companies shall have an AMS of at least 80 pst installed. by 1 January 2014 at the latest. In addition to this, the government will continue to work with current measures to further strengthen security of supply in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2214	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2218	The main elements of government policy to improve the power situation in central Norway have been, as the Council of State said, measures directed by Statnet and focus on renewable energy. The Council of State mentioned a great many measures in its article. But what he didn't say about it is that it's really hard to control against: what was the need? We don't know anything about that. It's done something, but it's clear that with the situation that we've had this year, and that we had last year, the needs have not been met. So you have to hope that it goes the right way, and that there will be deadlines for what is to be done. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: when does he think that the problems of the power situation in Central Norway will be solved, and that the price level is approaching the country, too, for this area? When will it be?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2225	As far as the latter is concerned, the situation has been as far as the representative is concerned in 2011. We have had a price level in mid-Norway in the first two months of 2011 that has to be said to be around the level of the country. It's significantly better than it's been in the past. I do not want to say, however, that the problem of what has not been done in Central Norway over many, many years, with it being solved. We still have a lot of work to do. That was also what I touched on in my post. So I'm glad that the representative also referred to what I said in my post, that there are many different things done, there are many actions that have been taken. It is and will be the combination of measures on the website, where Statnett is the main player, and production/energy efficiency improvement on the consumption side that is needed to solve this situation permanently.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2232	Governments were involved with this with intelligent current meters and their introduction. An order has now been issued to Central Norway to introduce three to four years earlier than originally envisaged. These so-called intelligent current meters shall record the consumption fluctuations in such a way as to provide an appropriate use and, therefore, a lower overall consumption. So the intentions in it are too good. But when a dispensation is granted at the same time in relation to introducing and applying this technology, it is in many ways a matter, as I described in a question, of talking to consumers about a product that is not time-consuming and where the technology is not finished. Is that what this represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2239	It is interesting, after having received some questions from the Storting on why not the AMS can be introduced earlier, now to ask whether this means to implement this scheme prematurely, cf. this question. What has been the story of this case has been that in the letter of assignment to the NVE, I asked them to look at the possibilities of finding one area in Norway, primarily an area with a challenging supply situation, where we could launch the project earlier than in the country, within the objectives we have for intelligent current meters. I have received good professional feedback on this, which is possible to carry out in Central Norway, and that we get the benefits of the AMS, sail if we do something faster. We also have the opportunity to gain experience from Middle Norway, which we can take with us in the country. For me, the AMS is about a lot more than just being able to read the power from the network company. We have to get to a two-way communication that has just the intelligent thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2247	I want to return to the press release that came from Industrikraft Møre on 22 February 2011 and refer to the gift package that this project is for the government. The press release states: «We are open to put the project on the rails again in the event of new government signals.» This is what the leader of Industrial Power Møre, Sverre Devold, says. It must be embarrassing for the government to see that we actually need a new government in order to get such an exciting and good project. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there can be a new signal that will allow us to remand this matter before we get a new government in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2261	I think the communication between the government and the actors involved in this project has been very clear, clear and really all the way, so no one can be surprised at anything related to this. There have been clear premises relating to the concession that was granted, and it has been there all along. So here it's been an open line, an open attitude, about what's been the content of the concession, and there's not been any surprises along the way. However, when the representative Lødemel takes this up with different governments, I can’t stop, because it was great to hear the representative Lødemel in his post a few minutes ago highlight that the Right had promoted the demand for an action plan in 2005–2006. So at the moment that the right leaves the government offices, the requirement for an action plan comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2268	Both the Advocate General Stroem, Knut Magnus Olsen and the Council of State have in their contributions a list of the number of concessions granted during this period of government. It's the way that the number of concessions really doesn't tell so much, because there's the number of applications of energy-producing measures that are crucial to the situation we're up against now. That's why I want to challenge the Council of State on how much more production it has been in water, wind, gas and district heating – I think it was these four concession areas that the Council of State framed – in Central Norway from 2005 until today, in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2273	The last thing I want to do is to make sure that the representative, Mr Hemdal, gets an accurate and good answer. We can go through the numbers on that. I'll come back to it. When it comes to talking down the importance of giving concessions, I'm a little surprised. Now, in various rounds in this room up for several years, I have heard that what has happened in the last few years has been due to concessions that have been given by governments that have sat before the red-green government, understood: the important decisions were made earlier. What we've done now has been just harvesting concessions that others have given. If it is now suddenly that it is not important to facilitate the further development of energy projects, it must mean that at least parts of the opposition have turned completely around in relation to whether it is actually to facilitate or whether it is to see the projects carried out that is the political craft. I think it's a combination of this. If we had not now increased the concession capacity in relation to what it was in the past, we would not have had the chance to achieve the targets we have in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2280	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2298	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines with replies after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2305	Now we've had a lot of debates in this room that's been around this topic, so this doesn't get so much in itself but an exercise in repeating the same arguments. I note that the Right and Advance Party believe that mobile gas power plants, which make up 300 MW, will be an effective tool in terms of balancing prices. We don't mean that. The background for this is, of course, that Central Norway is part of a common Nordic market, and in addition, these mobile gas power plants are rigged so that production costs are very high. Of course, it's related to the gas contracts. It is simply not rigged as a price regulation measure. What we agree with the Progress Party is that start-up can affect the production profile, and especially if you do so that gas power stations are given a concession to enter when you reach a given price level. It can make adjustments that actually make the situation worse, not better. The mobile gas power stations are reserve power in the correct sense of the word. It's when the wire is down, when it's technically wrong, when there's a risk that it's going in black, that these are our lifebuoy. I am concerned about what will happen if this reserve force is already in use when the situation becomes really critical. Then we don't talk critically about price, but in relation to the fact that you don't actually have access to electricity. And that's why we believe that this force has to be kept out of the ordinary market. Using back-up power plants as price-regulating tool when everything works, when Middle Norway is part of the common Nordic market, is and will be symbolism policy, but what makes it even worse, is that there will be a symbol policy that can make things worse. What has been done, and with which the proposers are of course well aware, is that temporary exemptions have been granted in the case of faults and difficult operating situations, and this can help prevent forced disconnection. Nevertheless, the power will continue to be held out of the ordinary market. We believe that this is important for this to work as intended. There must be a security if we are at risk of it actually going in black.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2320	It's kind of half-hearted about the government's attempt to reject this proposal. The government has decided that the mobile gas power plants will be 2.5 billion. kr should be a last instrument. It is therefore better for this government and the representative of Marthinen to close down industry than to increase power generation. And there's nothing related in Marthinsen's argument – that's why she left the hall now. She claims that using the mobile gas power plants weakens security of supply, but there was no attempt at logical coherence. But that's what I'm going to try to give: If you increase production in a 300 MW gas market, you will not use any more water. And the problem in Central Norway is that there's too little water in the magazines, not too much. This means that at best you produce gas power into the market, and you save the equivalent 300 MW of water. That means that if the situation gets worse later, you have more water in the magazines than you would otherwise have. You don't have less. The mobile gas power plants are not candles. That means they don't burn up, even if you start them. One burns up the gas, but not the turbines. That means that these turbines will also be available if a line falls down. It's not like you have 300 MW less if you have used them earlier. You still have the 300 MW more than if the mobile gas plants had not been built. But you probably have more water in the magazines as well, which you can step into the system if a line falls down. So that means you have 300 MW of both mobile gas plants and more water in the warehouses that you can dump into the system. So there is no logic that the representative Marthinsen tried to pretend that this should weaken security of supply. Does it give you expensive power? Yes, in a debate in which the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman, Torgeir Micaelsen, was involved, he claimed that he had seen calculations that showed that this was very expensive. Now the Minister of Energy has correctly written in a letter to the Progress Party that these calculations are secret. And why a fiscal spokesman in the Workers' Party gets to see calculations that the rest of the Stortinget can't see, that gets the red-green themselves to answer, but it's a little bit about the information policy that we've seen from the government before, being very weak, for example. in the Mongstad case. But a simple calculation is just to look at what gas costs today, and what efficiency you have on this. One sees that today's price of electricity from the mobile gas power plants will be directly above 50 centimetres/kWt. It's not very expensive compared to what's been very often the prices in that region. Some claim that starting the mobile gas power plants based on prices is an intervention in the market that the country should not do. Yes, in that case one must also say that Statnett will not go into the consumption side of the market and ask people to stop using electricity. There's as much an intervention in the market about a doll with the consumption side as about a doll with the offer side. But by saying that state networks on given criteria should be able to take price signals as part of the warnings and activate the mobile gas power plants, you have a predictability that must be open. If one says that if the current price, for example. – this is just an example, but it illustrates the point – is more than 150 pst. above normal for a period of time, the mobile gas power stations shall be started, all of them in the market know that they are the criterion for their start-up and that they will then be in operation for a given period before they are shut down. It is easy for a market to deal with. On the other hand, it is worse to deal with secret contracts concluded by Statnet with some companies to close down when Statnet itself finds it too good. So Statnett already intervenes heavily in the market, and the mobile gas power plants will be nothing new in that way. So we've shown that the mobile gas power plants don't increase the electricity price, they don't change the market behaviour, they're not used up, and they don't weaken the security of supply, as the government parties would have liked. They're a good thing in a difficult situation. The party of progress never saw this as a primary solution. No one must understand me there. But when the government, when today's government, thought it would make sense to spend 2.5 billion. kr to build them over 2.5 billion. kr to build a full scale gas power plant or more hydropower or more wind power or energy saving, or a combination of it, the government should also be interested in the rational use of the capital invested. Therefore, it is appropriate to amend the concession rules for the mobile gas power plants, so that when the market is reddish through high prices, Statnet will also be able to act on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2339	The President is uncertain whether the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, has taken up the motion put forward by the Group of the European Progressive Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2342	I'd love to do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2347	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2350	Unfortunately, not all parts of the country have equal access to electricity, partly because of low self-production in relation to consumption levels and partly because of bottlenecks in the transmission system. This situation has, for periods, caused a great strain on parts of the country in the form of high electricity prices, and we have, from the Right, lamented this unfortunate situation on behalf of both industrial and household customers. We have also regretted that the government does not seem to have taken this situation sufficiently seriously in the form of action plans and measures. High electricity prices have received a lot of attention both in the media and among industrial actors, as well as the involvement of many individuals and families in this issue. This is bad advertising for areas of the country in order to attract both new jobs and increased residence. Since the high price level is due to a lack of policy intervention in both energy production and infrastructure, it is regrettable that no further action has been taken at an earlier stage to avoid this situation. We are concerned on the right with good and predictable business framework conditions. This must also apply to Middle Norway. Fortunately, Swedish nuclear power production has had a better regularity and production capacity this winter and has contributed to the power supply, among others. to Middle Norway. Spare power stations in the form of mobile gas power stations to enhance security of supply into central Norway have been necessary. These mobile gas power plants have represented investments in the billions class. The question many have raised during periods of high electricity prices is whether the mobile gas power plants could have been in operation and thus helped to remedy a demanding price situation. This is also the intention of the draft representative that we are now discussing. Mobile gas power plants are known to have a high level of pollution and are also a costly power generation. Therefore, the right looks forward to the time when cleaning technology for gas power plants will be commercially available. We are therefore waiting impatiently for the State Council's statement on the status and further plans of the lunar landing project in Mongstad, which the Minister of Oil and Energy confirmed at the latest today in the consideration of a previous case to the Stortinget relatively early this year in which we are now in. Right wants the government to go through the criteria for starting up the mobile gas power plants on the Aukra and the Tent Credits, in order to extend them to periods of abnormally high electricity prices and to report them back to the Storting in an appropriate manner. I take up our proposal on behalf of the Right in this matter. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Right subsidiary will support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2367	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2370	Earlier today, we have dealt with two issues on the same theme: the use of gas power plants without cleaning and the power situation in Central Norway. I'm not going to repeat the central party's policy in this area, but the central party agrees that it is absolutely necessary to do something about the power deficit. With the partly large price fluctuations to which Mid-Norway has been subjected, a grip must be taken. The centre party works to have a similar and predictable power price across the country. But start-up of gas power plants without cleaning is not the answer. As at present, the start-up of the reserve power plants is permitted when there is at least 50 pst. the likelihood of rationalisation. In that case, all other relevant instruments must first be evaluated and tested. The setting-up of back-up power plants with a high price as a reason may affect both production and consumption, and therefore the effect can be very small. Therefore, it is necessary that back-up power plants are available only in very demanding power situations and outside the ordinary market. However, the conditions of the concessions have changed so that they can be started more easily in order to counteract the coercive decoupling of consumption. That's what the Center Party thinks was a good move. The good solutions to the challenges that lie there, which I talked about earlier today, are the production of new renewable energy, the deployment of networks and energy efficiency improvement. There we have, as mentioned, been given a number of important measures, and we are working on even more. The start-up of gaseous power plants in situations other than high risk of rationalisation has limited power and results in large and unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2387	Just a brief comment from the Christian People's Party on this matter. The Bondevik II Government provided a priority list of actions to be implemented first and last in a demanding power situation in terms of security of supply. We believe that the priority list set out by the Bondevik II Government is still standing, and we therefore see no need to change this priority, as proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2396	It is natural for us to have a power supply close to 100 pst. based on hydropower, the price of electricity varies between seasons and years. Usually the price is low in summer and higher in winter. Hydropower provides us with a unique access to clean renewable energy, but temperature, rainfall and reluctance can vary greatly from year to year and thus also hydropower generation. I agree with the representative that the power situation and the power prices we have seen this winter are challenging for households and businesses. There is no doubt that prices in December were unacceptablely high, with variations between parts of the country. My goal is to get at a similar and predictable electricity price across the country. Therefore, the objective of a stable power supply must be at the heart of energy policy. Statnet's reserve power plant is part of our insurance against the rations of electricity. They constitute energy reserves for use in very strenuous power situations, where the risk of rationalisation is considered to be high, i.e. 50 pst or more. They are therefore not a means of achieving a lower electricity price. To achieve our goal of a lasting improvement in the power situation and a similar and predictable electricity price across the country, we need more long-term measures, such as grid deployment, more renewable power generation and energy efficiency improvement. It is clear from the plant concessions to the reserve power plants that it is a prerequisite for the entry into service of Statnet first to use all other relevant instruments in order to deal with a possible SEAS situation. Statnet assesses the use of back-up power plants continuously in the light of the current situation, and they are ready to start works if the situation so requires. Emission permits to power stations also require other instruments to be used first. The replacement power plants are polluting and the emission permit is based on the fact that the installation could be put into service for about one in 20 years. Lowering the start-up threshold will obviously increase emissions! The background to our dispensation from this in relation to what has been done in the past is that Mid Norway is in a tight force situation, and that the situation can deteriorate beyond the winter. The operation of the power system could then also be difficult. Statnet has also applied for the same derogation to be granted for all winters until the planned power line between Ørskog and Sogndal is put into operation. Application for a derogation for 2012 and until the management is in operation for treatment in the department now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2416	I am sorry, but I am recording that someone is taking a very easy time at this debate, with such brief contributions from most of the government parties. As I was in my post, and as the Council of State was in its post, the government says that one should use all other means before considering starting up the mobile gas power plants. This means that the industry has to stop before the start of gas power. This means that lower industrial activity is good over increased CO2 emissions, although marginally increased. Does the Council of State really think that this is good industrial policy on behalf of the nation of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2428	Here, too, the representative Solvik-Olsen chooses to turn the matter around. The problem is, of course, that voluntary agreements have been concluded with industrial establishments that wish to enter into agreements on the basis of a given economic framework to ensure that the capacity and security of the network are maintained. This is not a policy of shutting down non-sea companies. As I said in my post, this power plant is ready for use to avoid rationalization and to avoid a critical situation in the network. Here we have to distinguish between what is actually agreed frameworks between enterprises and Statnets, and getting into a real rationalization situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2435	The councils would like to say that I'm turning the situation on my head, but I'm referring to the facts. I am fully aware that those who are asked to shut down are making money on it. I would probably have rather sat on the sofa, if someone paid me better for it than going to work. That's not what I challenge the government. I challenge it whether it is a sensible policy on behalf of the nation that we should ask the industry to stop producing goods and services rather than using a power generation that actually enables them to continue their normal operation. We as a nation must assume that there are companies that are profitable and that we want to work. However, the government’s fright of national CO2 emissions — i.e. CO2 emissions by burning Norwegian gas in Norway rather than burning it in England — is the reason why one would rather cut industrial activity temporarily than continue industrial activity and emit CO2 in Norway. Are the Councils satisfied with industrial policy in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2451	Having options to buy out consumption is something that is used throughout Norway, which is part of Statnet’s policy. That, I believe, is part of a responsible policy to ensure that the power level is reduced if necessary, in order to avoid that we – as we do, for example. now one hour in North Norway – have to take out subscribers who are not notified of it in the same way. That it is part of Statnett's list of measures, I believe it is correct. I believe that it would have been irresponsible not to have it on the list of what can be done. And then we have also said that the situation in Central Norway, based on preparedness and supply thinking, is so serious that we have to have one more step – so we have to have a measure to take. It has been done that, if all other measures do not work, we can start up an additional production based on these back-up plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2456	My question goes a little further than that of Ketil Solvik-Olsen. I'm thinking of Hydro Sunndal, which stands as a significant consumption of electricity in More and Romesdal. We know today that Su3 – i.e. one third of their production lines – is still in good aluminium prices. What's kind of in my question are processes that led to minor consumption. Is magazine filling also part of your assessment? Has the Hydro Sunndal lead been signaled that they should not start up Su3, thus exacerbating the state of today's warehouse filling at the record low level?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2463	I cannot go into the conversations that have been between Statnett and Hydro on the Sunndalsøra in detail. What's the situation, is that you have different, large consumption units in central Norway that allow you to secure the supply of the network just by taking out that type of production through contracts. What we're doing, for example. look at the West, that one does not have the type of activity that reduces flexibility. And then the situation is said to be that as Minister of Energy I want to make sure that we have enough energy in Middle Norway and in the country, too, that makes the price stable and predictable, and that the supply of energy as such is present. That Mid Norway is in a situation that we are not comfortable with, I don't think we need today's debate to conclude with. I think everyone in this room agrees that the situation in Middle Norway is not as we wish it were.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2470	I listened to the previous debate. In the reply to the power situation in central Norway, the Council of State noted to the Right that the party submitted a request for an action plan for central Norway as early as 2006. Now this government has been in power for over six years. The question I'm asking is whether the Council of State has asked itself the question of whether there are things this government, which has been in power for six years, could have done at an earlier time in order to avoid that so many years after the first price crisis in the region is up again. Could anything have been done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2475	Yes, it is obvious that much should have been done before, and on my wish list, the line capacity is in the middle of Norway as the big thing. I note that Statnett operates with ten-year lead-time on those projects, and that is a reality not least linked to the need for good local processes on these issues. I really wish we had put the line capacity into mid-Norway much earlier than what has happened in part, and what is partly about to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2481	When it comes to the previous questions, it's just to remind the Council of State that this government has actually ruled for five and a half years. With a lead time of ten years, one could have been halfway if the government had acted from the beginning, and not trained this case as well. But back to industrial policy in this. The Council of State is trying to explain this by referring to the North Norway situation. I think everyone in this room agrees that when the option is that the system collapses or that some industrial companies shut down, it is better that some industrial companies shut down. No one has claimed the opposite. In contrast, central Norway is in a different situation, for there can be a choice between shutting down industry or starting a power plant, and there, however, the government chooses to shut down industry rather than start up the power plant. Then you've made a political choice that you don't have in North Norway. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible industrial policy? That's what I'm trying to ask when it comes to Middle Norway, isn't everything else that one can explain away?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2490	There's no explanation. What was my reasoning in place – and that is still it – was that the Mid-Norway regime is the national regime that we have to use in relation to different actions that are put into action when preparedness forces it, and then we have an extra measure in Middle Norway. We have another screw to turn on – we have another option to put in place. I think that's right. As the situation in Central Norway has been now, I'm glad that we have the opportunity to do even more there than what we do in the country for the rest of the time. In addition to that, I believe that the policy we have and the list of measures we have is a sensible procedure – a sensible priority to take – not least because we have backup power plants in central Norway that have an emergency power function that is there when everything else has turned us against, when everything else has failed, and we have a critical emergency situation in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2497	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2502	The proposal to change the concession rules and thus provide opportunities to start up mobile power plants comes at several specific points when it comes to the power situation in Middle Norway. High price, poor network capacity and low storage capacity all guarantee exceptional measures on the supply side. P.O. Svein Rødal spoke to the media on 4 February of this year: «Never before has there been so little water in the power plant at this time of year as it is now. If we had had a long-lasting cold period in January, the situation could easily have been very serious." [[...]] So we're balancing on the slack line when it's about the power supply in Middle Norway. In other words, what we can characterize as an ordinary winter weather or storm with ice-cream could have led to darkened homes and enclosed workplaces in central Norway. This is too weak. When billions of dollars have been invested in gas power plants in the same area, it is completely impossible for consumers to understand that these should be unused in such a situation. So a claim, as several have made, that these two mobile power plants don't make any difference when it comes to price or magazine filling, as often as one wants. But it's a positive error, and it won't be corrected by the repetition. If these power plants had been started before and replaced their own production in the area, this would have saved considerable amounts of water, and the level of self-sufficiency would have improved. In such a situation with low magazine fillings, we have seen examples of extreme prices, and the Progress Party is aware of the effect of the spare power plant's production capacity, which could have the effect of reducing prices. All power supplies will have a price-absorbing effect in a market with a shortage, regardless of volume. But then the government left the power market to the gods, closer to certain weather gods, and refuses to use the resources you have to produce power, while the salt of the same energy base is exported to England and the continent for power generation there. This is double-ethical and incomprehensible for our European customers, and by and large for many Nordics and women. The group leader of the Workers' Party in More and Romesdal, Jon Aasen, calls it a scandal and a double moral, and it can well understand now that the energy region of More has laid down its gas power plant plans as a consequence of the government's policy. But there is also another serious side effect of the missing power supply. In More and Romesdal there is a project called the Worm Lange, which strongly contributes to our common economy and to the state's revenues. There is a ongoing compression project that will suffer greatly if one is unable to provide the necessary energy to get planned gas from these reservoirs located in the Worm Lange field. But they're dependent on an increase in pressure. It will contribute to this compression project, and there is no current.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2717]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2552	The first speaker is the interpellant, which is Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes, and then the councillor Trond Giske, should be. It says the Riis-Johansen government council on the screen, but this computer system varies somewhat, and I think it must be Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2555	I hope it is the Minister of Industry who answers, because I have more hopes for a good answer from him than from the Minister of Energy. This is therefore about the framework conditions for the power-generating industry. I'm not going to use a lot of words to describe the industry. We are probably all agreed that it is an important industry that processes our energy resources in a good way, which is important for employment and provides good export revenue. I have visited many of these companies, from the List in the south to Finnfjord in the north. There are two main messages that generally come from those visits. One is access to power at competitive prices. The second is the framework conditions for CO2 emissions. The two themes are very important. Although compensation of employees and other things also mean a lot, there are things we can pick up again through good organisation — good efficiency on the company. But in order to ensure the competitiveness of the power-generating industry, power, price and CO2 conditions are essential. There's something that a political can do about. Power-processing industries are primarily export-oriented. You meet a global competition. One lives on the margin for processed raw material and sells on. We're not able to collect any of the extraordinary costs with today's market. It is therefore not a separate market for low-carbon aluminium versus high-carbon aluminium. Everything is traded in the same place. In terms of power, the government has often said in response that they have supplied an industrial power regime. I guess that's good. I don't challenge it at all, and I think it has almost unanimous support in Stortinget. The problem is that, firstly, the industrial power regime is not yet operational and, secondly, it is too narrow in relation to needs. In fact, the industry is more exposed in the power market today than it was when this government took over. Through the fall-back case in Stortinget, the industry was deprived of the ability to own hydropower as they did before. Ensuring control of hydropower resources so as to ensure control of power prices is no longer possible. Being able to own a third of a hydropower plant must be done on completely commercial terms. You can't make sure you deliver that stream to your own business. It has to get into the market. The link that has traditionally been between industry and energy is broken by today's government. With a working party at the head, it's really a paradox. In addition, this government has reduced the rental scheme. In the past, it was more or less unlimited. The Svartisen power plant, which was a collaboration between Vattenfall and Nordland County Municipality, would not be possible today. It's a power plant that's built up with Vattenfall's capital primarily, but the municipality of Nordland will end up as owners in the end. It's because of the rental scheme, which used to last a lot longer than today. Now it's limited to 15 years. I am very aware, and it is probably the Workers' Party even more aware – that they would wish it were 30. But it's a fight they didn't want to take, despite the fact that they guarantee a majority for it in Stortinget. However, this means that the competitiveness of the industry has been weakened by the ideological approach of the government in the case of the fall-back and rental arrangements. Then it helps little to have an industrial power regime that can give a little ear to the gain by taking away the risk to sellers by force in bankruptcy. Large companies like Hydro have also said that the industrial power regime does not matter to solid companies. It is even assumed by the industrial power regime that the scheme cannot be granted to economically struggling companies. Ergo: It's the solid companies that initially don't need very much support, as the scheme is designed for. Today's policy also means that industry does not need to use forces to look at new hydropower projects, because they know that they are not allowed to realize them. As a result, hydropower is largely wasted by the hands of the industry. Alternatives like gas, which is the only other thing that can give enough volume with energy that you can control, are basically a good solution. We're a big gas nation. We export enough gas to 200 gas power plants. But here too, the government unfortunately puts its foot down. The Minister of Industry himself has been in Qatar and was very positive that Hydro opened a large aluminium plant with integrated gas power down there. He was very proud. But when Alcoa comes to Norway and wants to build an almost identical structure — with an investment framework of 15 billion. NOK, 500 jobs directly and more than 300 jobs on the supplier’s side based on snow-white gas – so again the government says no. This has been rejected by both Parliamentary Vice-President of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, and the Red-Green Group leader in the Energy and Environment Committee, Eirin Sund. So it's okay for this Alcoa government to build an aluminium mill, for example. in France, purchases Snow White LNG gas and burns it in France. However, Alcoa is completely unsolicited to send money, jobs, capital to Norway, but also burns the gas in Norway. Then one sees itself blind to national CO2 accounts rather than looking at global impacts. Then some have said that Alcoa just needs to get CO2 cleaned, so they can build in Norway. Yes, but then it's enough to look at Industrikraft Møre, who has come up with a project, has a concession, a requirement for cleaning, gets to work with Siemens to build a gas power plant with integrated cleaning. But then the government turned its back on. The project has been scrapped, and Industrialkraft Møre has today filed a complaint with ESA because they consider it to be discriminatory. It says a little bit about how the actors who are actually trying to implement government policy are also being met, and how they are not cheered in, but on the contrary rejected. The government does not make any contributions similar to those of Mongstad. Nor does the government contribute any infrastructure to transport CO2 from a purified gas power plant. No one can expect the individual industrial enterprise, whether large or small, to have capital base to carry projects that the state must take on Mongstad. And the consequences are squeezing. That, I think, is challenges that I hope the Minister of Industry will address. I do not expect the Minister of Industry here and now to say that the problems have been solved, but I hope that he will be able to recognise, as opposed to the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Energy, that these are issues that are regarded as unfortunate for industry. Because there is a point, when industry wants to establish itself in Norway, when industry wants to expand its activities, that it is political decisions that make it impossible – there is no shortage of capital, there is no lack of interest in developing Norwegian raw materials, but that is the political acceptance that it can happen here at home. Have we become so rich that we no longer care about the jobs that new industries can give us? On the other hand, the industrial environments, the engineering environments, which are designed to further develop better environmental solutions, better production solutions, which use less energy, which have less emissions and which are more profitable, are weakened by the fact that no more investment is being made in Norway. So the fact that the government thinks they're doing the environment a service saying that you're not going to build an industry with CO2 emissions in Norway just means that that capital goes somewhere else, because it's the demand for aluminium that makes Alcoa want to invest in Norway. It will not be lower if the state says no to Alcoa in Norway. It just means Alcoa realizes production capacity elsewhere to meet today's needs. This means that the environment is built elsewhere, which means that competitiveness and clusters are gradually shifting. We're also looking at Hydro on Karmøy, where the government now gives the impression that by giving capital to Hydro, Hydro is going to invest in Karmøy, while the workers on Karmøy today are out on NRK Rogaland and say that's never what they asked for. What they have asked for is the framework conditions, and these are the framework conditions I have now challenged the government. I hope the Council of State takes it seriously. The second element I mentioned in the introduction is the power price and CO2 surcharge. Many countries in Europe work to obtain schemes that compensate for CO2 costs in the electricity price, because they see that their own industry will not be competitive globally when not all countries have CO2 costs included in the electricity price. Unfortunately, this has been rejected by the Minister for Economic Affairs. Both Minister of Environment Solheim and Minister of Energy Riis-Johansen have previously refused to compensate for anything, because it is important that CO2 has a price, and that compensating will destroy the point of climate policy. I believe moving out of Norwegian industry, and therefore just shifting emissions, is a worse climate policy. I hope the Council of State will also make a contribution there. Finally, in terms of direct CO2 costs, it's a theme that I've brought up many times in the past. I have perceived the Minister of Industry to be quite positive about the allocation of CO2 allowances in line with what you have in other countries. That's why I'm not going to challenge him on it – I just want him to confirm that it's actually government policy. Because it is no longer than one year ago that SV in this room said that this government would not award a single allowance free of charge after 2013. I hope the Council of State can confirm that it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2631	Let me first link some comments to the interpellation address, because sometimes it's a little unclear when such interpellations are dealt with, which state council it's actually addressed to. Although it is an interpellation, we need to have some cleanliness in relation to which state council is responsible for which part of the administration. Now this is a subject that concerns many governments. This concerns me as Minister of Industry, because this is an essential factor for a successful industry. This, of course, concerns the Minister for Energy, who is responsible for energy supply and power companies, and it also concerns the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for climate policy. The more detailed questions relating to the state councils responsible for other areas are addressed in Questionnaires or in other interviews. I'm going to deal with what's going on in the power-intensive industry in Norway. Good conditions for this industry and other competitive industries are something that concerns both me and the government. I think that is something that characterises at least my party's history, it is precisely this that we have built industry in Norway, we have arranged for some special areas of activity, and the biggest change after we took over in 2005, was that we were just going away from the business-neutral policy that the bourgeois majority wanted, and on a policy of investing in the areas where Norway is best, where we have special advantage, and where we have a long history and good competence. Power-intensive industries are just such an area. It accounts for a significant part of our export income. It is important for employment in many regions. We have world-leading expertise and technology, including: in the aluminium and silicon sectors, and we have an environmentally friendly industry that is at the head of industry, climate and environment, and not, as the Progress Party often calls for, one or the other. On the contrary, precisely because we are so eco-leading, we are becoming more competitive; we are leading the international arena, and we are meeting international legislation and competition in an offensive way rather than after. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of the financial turmoil. What is amazing in Norway is that employment in Norway is now roughly at the peak before the financial crisis — quite different from that in other countries. Industrial employment in Norway is rising, and industrial optimism is higher than in a long time. This suggests that we succeed in both our economic policies, our industrial policies and our international efforts to provide good opportunities for export-oriented industries. The latest business cycle report from the Norwegian industry shows that the industry is doing well, and Norwegian industry expects a growth of 7 p.p. among its members, and employment is expected to increase. The image that the Progress Party often draws from Norway is unknown to me who work with industrial policy every day, traveling around, even in the West, and meeting optimistic future-oriented business leaders, or who travel to Brazil with a delegation of 140 people, including from the inter-pellant's home country, who look forward to the future, who believe in Norwegian industry, and who seem Norway is a good country to do business in. At some point we have to end with the black paint that it is so difficult to run industry in Norway, because it is wrong. Norway is a fantastic country. Norway is doing well, and there are a lot of people with count, optimism and progress, quite unlike what the interpellant describes. This does not mean that there are no challenges, and that we should not work to make the conditions even better, and there are important framework conditions to succeed. Something else that we therefore worked with before the 2009 elections was to say that we need mechanisms to ensure that the powerful industry gets good conditions. One of the things we launched was a large guarantee scheme for the powerful industry and the power companies, so that it can be used when entering into power contracts. Just before Christmas we were told that Norske Skog and Finnfjord have used the framework conditions we now have to conclude a contract with Statkraft. It is the first long-term power contract that has been concluded for a long time. It shows that our power companies can offer the powerful industry contracts on competitive terms. We have also set up a grant scheme for industrial enterprises that establish joint purchasing consortia of power. There is a significant interest in this scheme and a total of nine enterprises have received grants. In addition, we've added 14 billion. kr additional capital of the State company Statkraft, which the Progress Party has repeatedly wanted to privatise. It now provides an investment programme for the next five years of 80 billion. kr. Much of this is going to expand Norwegian power capacity. Recently, we were also presented with the green certificates, which contribute to nearly 13 TWh more force also in Norway. We said in the ownership message – since we own Statkraft, we can say such things: ‘State power shall work within the EEA legislation to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supply.’;» We also want public ownership in other power companies, contrary to the policies of the Progress Party. We have put in place many measures to strengthen the power balance, to expand new power generation and to rebuild this industry. We're at the core here. We will continue to build up under this industry as a cornerstone of Norwegian industrial policy. This is contrary to what is stated in the Progress Party programme: «Businesses and businesses shall be treated equally and self-employedly without subsidies or discrimination.» There is, of course, just discrimination on the basis of which the powerful industry is covered by the guarantee scheme. That is precisely what makes us want to facilitate that industry, not with subsidies, but by using the opportunities we have within an EEA legislation, within a market economy, to facilitate the areas where we are the best. We're also doing it through technology efforts, we're doing it through research, we're doing it through access to capital to make sure we build on what's best for Norway. That's what distinguishes Norway, that we have some sectors where we have extra bets, where we have built up companies like Norsk Hydro and others on the basis of Norwegian natural resources. It's true that access to capital alone is not enough for Hydro to invest in Karmøy, but it helps when the government deposit 5 billion. kr for Hydro to purchase Alumina and the mining business to Vale, so that they are secured raw materials for 100 years – again an active industrial policy, state participation in business and discrimination in the sense that we are betting on a particular area, all three of them contrary to the interpellant's own policies. So I'd like to be in charge of the Storting for what we do for the industry, because it's actually a very good story.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2663	I'm really very disappointed in the answer, because this was a collection of 'rauaraddel', which we would say on the Jären. It had very little to do with what was the problem, very much pure polemics. This interpellation has been properly addressed to the Minister of Industry, as a representative of the Government. After all, the Council of State is making every effort to present the industrial power regime. I think it is natural when we challenge industry and power that the Council of State responds. Governments must also be responsible for the whole of government policy and not just sell the positive, isolated aspects when the whole process stops important industrial projects. Regrettably, the state councils have little to do with the problem. When you start polishing about business-neutral policies, it's okay. Nor has the Progress Party been an active promoter of business-neutral policy in the way that the Right has been. But where is the active government policy in securing Aloca's investment in Norway? I challenge the Council of State to make concrete mention of that. I registered that the Council of State did not deal with such things. It is good that a helping Norwegian business to invest more in the rest of the world. The Energy and Environment Committee has been in Brazil and has seen the enthusiasm of the Norwegian business community to establish itself there. I myself have worked in the shipping industry and know what it looks like in the world to get a job, to make money. It is good that Norway does. But when investors come to Norway, we should also ensure that we welcome them and not show them our backs. It is a concrete issue that polemics from the Council of State cannot prevent its existence. It is good that industrial employment is increasing, but it is mainly the oil service industry, paradoxically enough. It is again about the fact that the oil service industry has become very good in terms of export and has received many maintenance and upgrade jobs on a Norwegian base, not as much new construction as we would like. Optimist businessmen we meet all the way. Many of them vote Right and Advance Party. But it doesn't change the existence of the challenges that were outlined. State power and equity: pretending that the Progress Party is against it is completely nonsense. The party of progress has repeatedly challenged the Council of State to respond to Statkraft, because he is unable to do so. The progress party also had nothing against Hydro getting investments and equity to make the investments in Brazil. But it doesn't change the fact, as far as investments in Hydro on Karmøy are concerned, that there is no lack of equity to stop them, but there is a weakening of profitability as a result of government policy. The Progress Party programme says that we should not discriminate between industrial enterprises within an industry. But at the same time, our program says a lot about cluster betting. It should also be brought with it by the Council of States, rather than distorting this debate. We focus on marine industries, maritime industries, energy, oil and gas and ICT. However, when the issue here is about access to power for industry, it does not prevent the Council of State from answering that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2678	The President has some doubts as to whether the word 'customs' is so very parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2681	As I said – just to answer the question – we will be close to what the EU decides on the CO2 quota scheme. But there's another government council dealing with it in Stortinget. The EU is also not finished with its legislation. It's also the way we're going to stick to the climate agreement that all parties, except the Progress Party, have entered into this house. It is also a good business policy. The disastrous industrial policy would be if we had said – unlike all other European countries – that we don't care about climate change, we don't even believe in it, and then put up a business policy after that. Then comes the international rules and the international requirements – and then the Norwegian industry is completely ‘on the verge’. Instead, we now create thousands, if not tens of thousands, of jobs in an environmentally friendly way, are in the forefront, gain market shares – for example. in the oil and gas industry, following the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Our safety requirements and our environmental requirements are better suited to establish that our companies are clear when there are more stringent requirements elsewhere. The fact that at some point you have to say a little from the beginning – back to the Progress Party – is not only because you have an interpellation debate in the middle of an exciting sprint interview, but also because I see that Solvik-Olsen, in Stavanger Aftenblad on 14 February, says the following: ‘Ap does not understand the conditions necessary for the development of industry and the offshore industry.’ There are many people to be taught, but not by the Progress Party. I believe that the Progress Party is failing the West. You've failed the West – and you've done it all along. One failed the time when it was proposed to privatize HOUSE, and one failed the time when it was thought that Statoil would be sold. There is a mistake in saying that the interpellant does not say that there should be any discrimination within the industry. It says: ‘Enterprises and enterprises shall be treated equally’ — sentence, not ‘industry’. The pillars of the entire Western world – the marine industry, the oil and gas industry, and the powerful industry – are failing. One would like to argue for privatisation and for the industry to keep falling back, but it might as well be foreign industry. If you privatize Statkraft, there are probably not capital environments in Norway to buy it. This means selling it out of the country, and then the West — and Norway — fail again. It is an active industrial policy, a participating state, state ownership, investment in Innovation Norway, investment in SIVA, investment in research and education – working together, public and private – that has built Norway, and that is what has built the Norwegian model. The American, liberal and thatcher models have actually created poorer business development, and I also think that the voters who are concerned with industry have seen for many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2702	The President appreciates the fact that there are real debates in Stortinget, but does not believe that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen can do anything to make this interpellation go at the same time as the sprint.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2705	The power-processing industry is one of Norway's largest export industries and represents several thousand jobs. These enterprises are often located along the coast and are corner stone holdings in many district municipalities. The most important thing for this industry and all industry in Norway is that we have the economy in order – this is something the interpellant should remember. It would be nice a little industry to in Norway, including the power-processing industry, if we let go of the money and get pressure in the economy. Most companies have until now had government-determined power contracts. Several contracts have expired or expire in a relatively few years. That is why, in recent years, it has been a major focus on the framework conditions for this industry. The business cycle report from Norwegian Industry, which is presented online, shows that industry has been successful through the financial crisis and that Norwegian companies are optimistic about the future. Growth is expected and employment increases. This is good, but it is of course important to continue working on the framework conditions, as the minister said. The conditions of force are important for the power-generating industry. The authorities, together with industry, have built up a new industrial power regime to ensure a long-term, good framework for industry. Industry is happy with the content and means of action of the industrial power regime. Guarantee schemes for power-processing industries for the purchase of power, of 20 billion kr is important for securing power supply and the like's contribution scheme to industrial enterprises in order to establish a consortium of joint purchasing power. Here, as the Minister pointed out, nine companies have already paid out this supplement. The condition with which the industry is not satisfied is the possibility of renting power plants for only 15 years. Their desire is 30 years in order to be able to plan in the long term for operations and investments. 30 years' rental time is also in line with the Workers' Party's national meeting decision, but I will not take any action about this here. As I said, the critical framework conditions for being able to have power-processing industries in Norway are several, among others. the competitive price of electricity. Countries outside Europe can offer different currents more affordable than Norway can. The paradox is that this is often out of gas and coal power. Norway's power-generating industry is the purest in the world – tufta in pure Norwegian hydropower. The fact is that Norwegian industry is part of the climate solution today — and in the future. State power shall, according to the owner’s notification, negotiate with the industry and offer long-term and competitive power agreements in Norway. It is very gratifying that new long-term power agreements with State power were put in place. I argued that this trend of negotiating with State power is continuing even more strongly in the future. Another moment that came to light after we proposed the new power regime is the CO2 surcharge on the power price, which is approx. one third of the price. Norway has mainly water power that does not release greenhouse gases. In the authority-determined power contracts, there are no CO2 impacts. I see the paradox with the CO2 tax on hydropower and other renewable energy, but at the same time we have to recognise that we are part of a Nordic power regime, and today we are importing power, and that power is not without CO2 emissions. In the revised ETS Directive, the EU Commission has proposed that industry sectors considered to be particularly exposed to carbon leakage may receive up to 100 % free allowances from 2013 — using best available technology until a new international climate agreement is in place. The EU has also opened up the possibility for Member States to compensate industry exposed to carbon leakage for parts of the increase in the power price resulting from the ETS Directive. It is also good that all traditional Norwegian power-processing metal industry is included in the EU list of industries exposed to carbon leakage. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government says that emissions from power-intensive industries should be regulated within the EU quota system. The government is now working on finding good solutions both to improve the environment and to facilitate, among other things. the aluminium industry shall continue and develop in Norway. I know that the government is very busy with this, and that the dialogue with the companies it's dealing with is good. However, I would like to point out that it is important that the pressure in this area is maintained with full strength. We are also going to say that the Norwegian strict emission requirements have resulted in our Norwegian companies being completely in the world market when it comes to technological development. This has given us the advantage and will still give us the advantage. Once oil comes to an end, we'll still have the skills. There is optimism in the industry, and I am sure that the best thing for the industry is still red-green government with its holistic active business policy and strong state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2753	I would first like to thank the interpellant, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, for raising an important debate on the framework conditions for the power-generating industry in Norway. This industry, as is well known, has built up around the comparative advantage of hydropower in Norway. Many communities are built up as a result of this industry, and these are partly quite one-sided industrial communities with a high degree of dependence on these companies in relation to jobs and income. It is therefore right to say that the framework conditions for the power-generating industry are also of great importance for the district of Norway. The power-processing industry appears to be technologically advanced and world-leading in terms of using environmentally friendly technologies. Products such as: Aluminium is expected to have a high demand in the future, and production based on clean renewable hydropower is an important contribution also in the face of global climate challenges. If we lose production in Norway, other countries will take over this production, countries that probably do not have the same requirements for climate emissions and environmentally friendly production as we do in Norway. Then we lose on all fronts: we lose industry, and people lose their jobs. The environment will also be a losing party. Such a situation we have to do the best we can to avoid getting into. The products from the power-processing industry are global merchandise. Our businesses must be present in these markets every day. This is not an industry where we can just press a power button in line with varying power prices. At the moment that Norway produces less, other countries’ players are ready to hijack increased market shares. It is important that the government sends a clear signal to the industry that it should be able to have the same framework conditions as its closest competitor country, i.e. the European Union. We know that the EU has opened up to compensate for the higher electricity prices generated by European allowance markets in relation to large parts of the world, in order to avoid industrial and carbon leakage, and it is important that Norwegian authorities follow and are active in their influence and organisation of the framework conditions for this industry. Since Norway is not a member of the EU, this means that our authorities will have some additional challenges in influencing the design of the scheme in a direction we believe is important in order to avoid carbon leakage in the future, but it is important that the government has an active attitude in this area. With regard to Alcoa’s plans for industrial establishment in Finnmark, it is unfortunate that the government cannot be willing to contribute to the organisation of these industrial workplaces. Furthermore, it is a pity that Industrial Power More this week has chosen to put its plans for a gas power plant in Elneswagen on ice, since the government's requirements for cleaning from start-up are not commercially possible for these operators. I notice the self-responsiveness of the government and the Workers' Party's efforts to build industry. Unfortunately, however, Norway is in a situation where some important indicators of value creation point to the wrong path. I hope our Minister for Industry has noticed that. After the financial crisis, there has been a decline in the number of jobs in the private sector. The share of innovative enterprises in Norway is declining and the long-term trend of innovation is negative. We have had a negative productivity growth over the period 2006-2009, and Norway falls on the world ranking above the business climate. These are danger signals, and it must be extremely important for the current government to ensure that we have a constructive policy for the industry in Norway. The right is concerned with these questions, and we have as our starting point that Norwegian industry must have as much framework conditions as possible as our neighbouring countries and the closest competitors. This applies both to the framework conditions for the start-up of gas power plants and to the level playing field under the EU State aid rules. On the right, it is committed to further developing a strong industry in Norway, ensuring that there is a range of work and competence jobs around the district of Norway. Finally, I would also encourage the Minister of Industry to be active in the discussion that is now taking place in advance of the management plan and the notification of petroleum, because the supply industry of oil and gas in Norway actually represents the country's second largest export industry. It means that it doesn't matter how we organize and develop the domestic market for this industry, so that it grows here at home as a basis for further growth outside. There is an obvious responsibility for contributing to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2770	The representative of Solvik-Olsen addresses key questions in the interpellation. The power-processing industry is currently an important part of the Norwegian export industry. He is important to many communities, and he is an important customer for many innovative suppliers around the country. One of the reasons for the good position that this industry has is an offensive environmental effort. Especially in the 1970s and 1980s, the process industry was subject to stringent environmental requirements. Industry took these environmental challenges on a tight footing and focused on process development and new technologies. As a result, we now have an innovative and competitive industry. The representative of Solvik-Olsen is busy with the framework conditions for this industry, especially related to climate and the environment. There may also be grounds for pointing out what is actually the framework of the current situation in relation to the climate and environment of the process industry. He's got 100 pst. free allowances for process emissions based on historical emissions. Furthermore, he has 85 pst. free allowances for energy-related emissions. Subordinated companies also do not have a CO2 tax. Nor does the power-processing industry charge electricity. So the framework conditions related to climate and the environment that we see today can be a difficult claim to be negative in relation to the competitive situation. At the same time, the offensive environmental policy we have had over time has brought the industry into the current situation. We have an innovative and forward-looking industry with strong competitiveness. Public support has also been provided for the development of new process options, both within the aluminium industry and the ferro-alloy industry. Today, we are in a situation where process developments are taking place in the Norwegian metallurgical industry, with public support, among other things. from Enova, can in fact revolutionize both the aluminium industry and the ferro-alloy industry. So it's actually a very potent industry we're talking about here. Good framework conditions combined with offensive environmental policies have led to a viable and forward-looking industry today. It is important to continue that balance sheet. It is what has created Norwegian industry, it is what is branded for Norwegian industry — an offensive environmental policy and good framework conditions — and that is what makes it competitive in a country with a demanding cost level. The red-green government has also put in place a good industrial power regime. It is good for the industry while ensuring that the force of water, which is an eternal natural resource, still belongs to the people. Just before Christmas we got a few examples that the industrial power regime works well for important players in the industry. The representative of Solvik-Olsen also mentions what he calls the CO2 premium in the electricity price. Some perceive this as a charge on electricity. This is not a charge on electricity, it is an effect of the free price competition that the Progress Party celebrates. The impact of climate quotas on coal power plants in Europe is propagated through the market mechanisms of Norway. The industry is busy that this market effect can lead to difficult competitive conditions, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe, compared to the rest of the world. It's actually an important issue that we have to follow closely. However, the situation is that the EU has not yet decided how to deal with this. So in parallel with the fact that the EU is looking at how to deal with it, Norway has to follow up on what is happening there, in order to speed up how to solve the problem before we see how to solve it in Europe, can make us in a difficult situation. So what the government is doing is exactly what's right in terms of industry: following the situation in Europe, and making sure that we get sensible solutions in Norway related to what goes on in Europe. I've been working in this industry for 20–25 years, and I know that one of these is the most busy, that the directors are always talking about when they visit, is that the export industry has one primary requirement, and it's an organized economy that makes us have a stable crown price. I think I can probably say that if the Progress Party is about to get on the economic policy in Norway, I'm afraid that we have neither an orderly economy nor a stable krone price, or that there's so much metallurgical industry left in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2798	The representative of Solvik-Olsen addresses key questions in his interpellation. There is no doubt that the power-intensive industry is an important part of Norwegian business. These are important cornerstones of many district communities. The centre party is committed to facilitating the power-intensive industry, and we will stress the importance that the government is now implementing measures to strengthen the power supply to industry. The centre party is satisfied that a guarantee scheme with a framework of 20 billion is now in place. kr to support the power-intensive industry’s power purchase. The red-green government has also established a subsidy scheme for industrial enterprises establishing joint purchasing consortia of power and a significant interest in this scheme has been shown. Just before Christmas, long-term contracts were concluded between Statkraft and Norwegian industrial companies. It is very important for the further development of Norwegian Forest and Finnfjord. Investments in the power-intensive industry tend to have a horizon of 20-40 years, and long-term power agreements will be crucial for new investments. I would also like to point out that the government has launched a series of measures to strengthen the power balance and to expand new power generation. This is of great importance to the power-intensive industry. There are also plans to further develop and strengthen the power grid. Agreement has been reached with Sweden on the establishment of a single electricity certificate market starting in 2012 which will lead to the development of new renewable energy. At the same time, Statnett plans to invest heavily in the network in the coming years. This will mean a lot to the power-intensive industry. The centre party is committed to maintaining the power-intensive industry in Norway in parallel with the development of climate instruments. We must also ensure that climate regulation contributes to real emission reductions globally. The centre party is concerned with climate and climate challenges. At the same time, we are quite clear that we are not served with a system that can cause Norwegian industry to move to countries without emission obligations. That is why we need to find a device that best respects Norwegian climate policy, while at the same time ensuring the industry a competitive environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2817	Interpellant states that the government's industrial power regime is too vague to calm down the industry. He's probably right in that. Low-cost power is a crucial factor for Norway as a high-cost country to compete with low-cost industries in the future. In addition to our high level of competence, cheap power is our foremost competitive advantage. I have received the same message from many industrial companies: an industrial power regime that provides secure and long-term access to power to competitive conditions is crucial for the future of businesses. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway needs a new energy policy that takes over the lessons from Middle Norway. It shall not be possible for more consumption than the supply capacity to be planned in a region without the introduction of measures to ensure supply in line with consumer growth. In the otherwise successful deregulation of the power sector 20 years ago, the authorities left too much responsibility to the market, and the administration took a role in confidence that market mechanisms ensured supply. The Christian People's Party has proposed changes to the Energy Act to strengthen political governance and strengthen the oil and energy minister's responsibility for supply. The red-green government has not wanted to follow up on this. The size has recently addressed changes in the law on coverage, which will facilitate industry’s access to finance in the conclusion of long-term power contracts. It could create increased liquidity in the market for long-term power contracts and be an important contribution to ensuring that the power-intensive industry further develops its activities in Norway. The amendments to the Coverage Act are only one of the framework conditions that must be in place before a guarantee scheme can be established. The second important condition, namely the notification and approval of ESA, must also be put in place. The Christian People's Party supports this amendment but notes that it does not fulfil the promises of the government parties in the 2005 election campaign on power for industry at below market price. The government's proposal for a guarantee scheme for the purchase of power helps the industry a bit on the road, but is very close to what was promised before the last elections. The test of the impact of this guarantee scheme is whether industry is now finding the basis for long-term investment in production and investment in Norway. It wants the Christian People's Party to facilitate. In the election campaign in 2005, the red-green country and beach traveled with promises they should know they could not hold. Stoltenberg gave industry false expectations. Industrial power was a pleasant debate theme, and red-green promises of a new industrial power regime were many and very strong. Jens Stoltenberg also promised power at below market price. This created expectations in the industry. It was not surprising that the EEA Agreement did not allow for fixed power contracts. This was old news for those who know the matter. The governments of Bondevik I and II and the government of Stoltenberg I had come to the same conclusion earlier. This knowledge must have deliberately forgotten the red-green as they traveled around with this message. Some industrial communities have been particularly affected by the international financial crisis. The Christian People's Party fears that the government's instruments in industrial policy are not accurate enough. The Christian People's Party believes that increased investment in research, innovation and good public infrastructure is a key success criterion for a value-creating business to bear costs for future generations. But we know that cheap power is a crucial factor for Norway, like the high-cost country it is, to compete with industry in low-cost countries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2840	Power-processing industry is important to Norway, it is said. Yeah, I totally agree. It is an industry that has spread throughout the country and affects a lot in relation to either employment or indirect employment. The last speaker was referring to this with force at below market price. I don't think the Storting should consider what is the market price. But what this government has contributed to is that State power has now concluded power contracts with two industrial partners. One of the industrial companies has chosen to believe in such a contract; they actually invest several hundred million. kr in a new, zero-emission melting plant. It's not that bad in itself – it's really quite important. But compared to the power-processing industry: if we look at Norwegian Industry's own estimates of where they are relative to production, they say that increased exports in January were 4.7 pst. If exports of petroleum products are kept out, there was a growth in mainland exports of 13 pst. We see that the power consumption from 2010 has increased again, and that there are several that turn the production up. We see that in 2010, industrial output increased by 2.8 pst., and the metal industry and chemical industry had relatively higher growth in 2010 than in 2009. The figures show that the metal industry increased by 15.7 pst. in 2010 compared with 2009, and chemical commodities had high growth in 2010, with an increase of 26.8 pst. compared to 2009. So there's relatively good growth and good opportunities for exporting Norwegian goods. Then, we are pleased to note that some of the basic conditions – the framework conditions – for Norwegian industry also lead to a choice of investment. Finnfjord, who now got a power agreement with Statkraft is a good example of that. In addition to the Statkraft agreement, they received 175 million. kr of Enova to build the world’s first emission-free melting plant. In total, this is a good framework for active industrial policy, and good policies that actually support industry, including the power-generating industry. Then power is absolutely necessary, and an important input factor. The majority of the Committee and the majority of the majority in the European Parliament, when we discussed the law on coverage in the Grand Duchy before Christmas, said that it is a special responsibility of power sellers in Norway to enter into long-term power contracts for industry, among others. to avoid significant changes in national power consumption over time. That's a pretty significant remark in relation to the discussion we have now. It's about the willingness to lead so that power producers should sell power to the power-generating industry. Neither the Right nor the Advance Party was on that note. Neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party, which now stands and invokes an active stance on the situation of the Norwegian power-generating industry, would share the type of leadership of the Stortinget. And in my opinion, it basically shows that one is most concerned with the concept of neutrality that Right has faced in the past. The same thing happened to the Right when we dealt with the capital injection to State Power. They chose not to participate in giving the company leadership in line with both industry and other national needs. On the contrary, they failed to provide leadership. It shows that the right hand side is still a neutral batch. In addition, in this interview debate, the Right says that there has been a decline in private employment after the financial crisis. Yes, but it's on its way up again. At the same time, from 2005 up to now, some 260 000 new jobs have been created, two thirds in the private sector – a significant growth in the number of jobs in the private sector. So the debate gets a little weird, and it doesn't get any better even if we repeat those debates over and over again. But I think it is worth stressing that even in some cases, right-wing business neutrality seems to have infected the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2855	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for the initiative, and then one must ask half-way for an apology because one spends important time which could actually have been used to be in Holmenkollen and seen sprint. I come from a fanatical sports-interested family – but there are sometimes things that are more important. First, a little bit to the term ‘nutritional neutrality’. Here I feel that the working party is going off. There is one important politician who has used the term ‘nutritional neutrality’. His name is Jens Stoltenberg, and he introduced it under his first government. In the Right there has never been any concept or tool. So to part of what I want to comment on the debate. As far as Alcoa and the Hammerfest project are concerned, there is, in fact, quite a broad political consensus that Finnmark and Nord-Norway now have very good opportunities in both energy and minerals. In any case, when you look at the number of ministers who have been north and told about the red-green future, there is a cross-political consensus in the Workers' Party that there are enough energy resources and minerals up there. There are good reasons to plan where you can have hopes of extracting energy resources from oil, gas, wind, ocean power and hydropower. In addition, we know that the predictions for finding large mineral resources are good. We even find that in the state budget, where money is well allocated to look them up. Then it's quite so unbelievably defensive to say on the contrary no when you get a request like the one you got from Alcoa. The natural questions could have been: How does this fit into a climate accounting where you include the other forms of energy you are about to extract? Is the combination of wind, water, electricity and gas likely to increase the potential to realise the deployment of lines, which, in turn, can increase renewable energy consumption? Another question that might have been asked was: what does it mean for climate accounting that we combine the extraction of energy and the processing of minerals as close as possible to the energy source? Could it actually be that it can have a positive effect on climate accounting that we are further developing this industry in Norway, where – and no one disagrees – we are proven to be very good at this? One question that could have been asked was: What is the outcome of the climate accounting that we export gas that is incinerated, measured against an industrial venture like this? I record that the response of the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, was on the contrary no, and I do not record any attempt to nuance that response during this debate. I find that quite regrettable. In recent months, we have made some proposals in order to try to think about this in full – we have made some proposals trying to look at a whole mineral strategy on mineral extraction. Then you've got no. There is today a proposal for voting which seeks to see a holistic approach to energy policy. I'm not willing to bet red wine that we're going to see a yes here in this room for such a proposal either. In fact, you are not just inviting business operators and investors in relation to the industrial policy you want to show. You sometimes seem quite reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2870	It is important to have an active industrial policy that helps to secure jobs and develop new ones, and it is a complex task. If we look at employment in our neighbouring countries, we can say that we have done much of this, especially after we have done as well as we have done in relation to the financial crisis. The most important thing is to maintain stability in the economy. The stable exchange rate and the low interest rate may be the most important basis for our export-oriented industry. With the economic policy of the Progress Party, with increased use of money, where the bag for all good purposes is to be picked up in the oil fund, the uncertainty would become great in our industry, and thousands of industrial workers would have received that bill. The government has paved the way for the industry. I think it is absolutely incredible that the representative of Solvik-Olsen can say that a weakened competitive situation is due to government policy. He does not mention a single time the financial crisis and the demanding market situation in which the industry has stood, so I thank and praise that the country is not governed by the economic policy of the Progress Party. Then I want to say one thing, because I noticed that both the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right-wing representatives are working hard on the fact that the government has all the blame for the fact that Industrikraft Møre's project has been iced up. The concession requirement for Industriekraft Møre is quite clear on the cleaning requirement, and it is clear that it is demanding to find this project economically profitable. It is also demanding to be sure that the economic costs of building such a facility will be met. Looking at Mongstad and the project there, the experience shows that the cost figures and the technical challenges of cleaning often play a kiss. It is sad that such good projects are being scrapped, but I think it is incredible that you owe only to the government in this regard. It's going way too far, and I think it's a little too easy in terms of a project that we all wish would have realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2879	I would like to thank the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party for contributing to a constructive debate, but I regret to note that the time has actually been wasted, because when it comes to hearing about the problem from the government, it has not been there. This is a problem addressed several times by both Norwegian industry and industry and energy. But it's obvious – when it's the Progress Party that raises the issue, the Council of State is more concerned with the Ski World Cup than what's going on in the hall. Governments have prepared more to misinterpret the Progress Party policy than to deal with the real issue. What I came up with was not a black paint of the situation, but two concrete issues that industry experiences as a hindrance to competition with the rest of the world. It's about the cost of CO2, and it's about access to power. This isn't a problem. The Progress Party has designed, but that's what I think everyone, when you think about it, knows is a reality. I refuse to believe that Norwegian Industry has not talked directly to Trond Giske about this when they have gone out in Technical Weekly and also mentioned this as a problem at all kinds of conferences. To the representative Holmelid: Yes, I am aware of the conditions of the Norwegian industry. I went a long way in giving praise to the government that the signals that SV gave in 2009 and 2010 that it would not be allocated free allowances to the industry are no longer the government's signals. I can thank and bow for that reverse operation. It's very good. But the second issue I mentioned is still not addressed. It is a little special when the industrial power regime here is credited with the fact that a power contract has been concluded between Statkraft and Norwegian Forest when this industrial power regime is not yet fully notified by ESA, and when Norwegian Forest says that that was not the basis for it. I can go into a polemics with the Minister of Industry on the policy of the Progress Party, I know it better than the Council of State. But the Council of State has no interest in trying to reproduce it correctly. I just note that in the Rogaland oil state it is the Progress Party and the Right that are the preferred parties, not the Workers' Party. It's about choosing people who work in an industry, not being fooled by polemics when they see what the practical policy is. In fact, Norwegian industry is more exposed to market power now than it was before that government took over. It's not the party's fault. The party of progress will not sell out the hydropower, but we believe it is right that industry should own the hydropower. So the council can try to leave it a thing that we're going to sell out everything to non-residents. That is not the policy of the Progress Party. Finally, let me challenge the Minister of Industry for a concrete thing that he has hardly dared to touch, and that is Alcoa. Alcoa exemplifies the problems of this industrial policy. So giving Alcoa the opportunity to invest in Norway is not destroying our environmental and climate goals. It's not to ruin the efforts of the industry in this area, but it's to be able to build on that cluster. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that Alcoa actually invests in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2899	Let me first say that this is quite correct: the Ski World Cup is more pleasing to me than the Industrial Policy of the Advance Party. Especially when we've got a trundle gold and a trundle silver in the last hour, it's absolutely brilliant. To be a little serious, it also exemplifies that the Progress Party is wrong in another area, namely that Norway is not allowed to succeed, not to give extra and not to be honored and honored for winning Norwegian or international championships. On the contrary, these sports stars are some of our greatest examples, some of which we look up to, some of which inspire us. It's the same in business. It's okay to succeed. You're allowed to stand on extra. It's okay to get to things. And we're going to pay tribute to those who create the good businesses, not just those who do the big businesses. I would like to welcome Alcoa to invest both in Finnmark and elsewhere. I wish the Norwegian metal industry a bright future. And we're going to facilitate it, but it has to happen within the climate agreement that the Storting has decided. That is why I understand that the Progress Party can stand here and say: run on, build gas power plants, let go, use the resources without regard to the climate. But that the Right can stand here and say it, without taking over the climate agreement that the Right even said the government was too defensive before we came to an agreement, I have a lot worse to understand. I'm optimistic. I think technology will help us. I believe that human innovation and the ability to develop new solutions will allow us to build an industry that combines the use of natural resources such as gas and ore resources, of which we have a lot, and which we have doubled the search for – again a non-nutritional policy, but on the contrary a bet in a particular industry with CO2 cleaning and storage. However, this must be done within the framework of Norwegian climate policy, and subsequently within the European rules that come. We cannot answer Alcoa to what will become the EU acquis one, two or three years before it is signed. There's no Norwegian government running around. We have to wait until that regime is done. Then we're going to continue to facilitate that industry gets long power contracts. It is appropriate for ESA to continue to be able to intervene, but the power contract guarantee scheme is in force. It is Norwegian law that it has been adopted. There may be legal processes in the EEA and EU systems if ESA intervenes, but as long as they do not, that law is in force. And I'm probably pretty sure that Statkraft, Finnfjord and Norwegian Forest also had it in mind when the first long-term contract in a very long time – a twelve-year contract, thought about it, that secured Norwegian Forest and Finnfjord – was concluded. It shows that it is useful with politics, that it is useful to intervene and put a little into place and not just to release the forces of nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2915	Case No. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2932	Let me start by saying that I believe that interpellations as such can be a good debater for dialogue between government and magnification, and hope that this debate can bear a somewhat greater impact than the previous one. So it's really at least five other state councils that should be here today. The Ministers for Health, Labour, Fisheries, Agriculture and Research could be here in addition to the Minister for Industry. Now Storting's Rules of Procedure do not open that up. I am so pleased that both the Presidency and the Ministry of Industry and Trade have concluded that it is very appropriate for the Minister of Industry to respond. I'm going to start by saying something about, as I also mention in the interpellation text, why Norway has very good prerequisites for success in biotechnology. The knowledge in Norway about the large patient groups is unique. The vast majority of patients treated are well documented by general patient registration. In addition, we have established a cancer register that contains more information than most other national states have about both patients, the treatment patients receive, and the outcome of that treatment. In addition, the Council of State will certainly be familiar with my neighbouring North-Trøndelags HUNT study, which is one of many projects that in sum contributes to a great deal of knowledge about Norwegian patients. In addition, there is probably an advantage to the close integration between medical education and research environments on the one hand, and performing and treating medical environments on the other. In total, this has given us a wide range of excellent international knowledge and research environments in cancer, diagnostics – in particular foetal diagnostics – and medical technology. In addition – which I will not spend so much time on today, but which we still have to mention in the debate – we have the aquaculture industry and the pharmaceutical industry and cooperation between them. We have strong research clusters in Trøndelag and in Hordaland. Paradoxically, we have strong veterinary pharmaceutical research environments in Akershus, of all things. In sum, these relationships have helped us to have a large undergrowth of partially small start-up businesses, but not least many good ideas from the Norwegian research communities. I include in my interpellation text Inven2, owned by the University of Oslo, which this year alone will receive 20 products for the corporate or licensing phase. So the problem is that many of these products are just being licensed, not always for Norwegian companies, but create values and jobs in other parts of Europe and the world and not in Norway. This is important. We often talk about the wave of old age. Today is 14 pst. by Northmen over 67 years of age. By 2030 it will be 18 pst. By 2050, over 20 pst. the population is over 67 years of age. The ratio over 90 years will double to 1.8 pst, by 2050. At the same time, there will be fewer unemployed per pensioner. Today, the number is 4.5 inhabitants in working age for each population over 67, while by 2050 it will only be 2.7 – all of this according to SSB forecasts. According to senior researcher Stein Østerlund Petersen at SINTEF health research, it will be the somatic hospitals that are first taken by the elderly wave, then, ten years later, hospital and home-based care. Then it's unfortunate that the wave of old age coincides with lower oil production. We need active petroleum policy. I'm not going to pull out the Lofoten and the Vestral. But no matter what is done with Norwegian petroleum policy, the relative share of the state's oil revenues will be reduced in the future, regardless of what we find out in this room about the Lofoten and the Western Seabed and other more or less controversial sea areas. But biotechnology is in this context, in my opinion, a cheek egg. On the one hand, technology will enable us to exploit and probably strengthen public research efforts towards biotechnology. Hopefully, this will help Norwegian developed skills to improve and improve the effectiveness of treatment for the sick, to speed up the return to work and to increase the number of people at work. It could release capacity in hospitals through shorter and more efficient treatment. Hopefully, it will also make it possible for more people to stay at home longer and for home services to become more effective. In addition — that is why it is important that the Minister of Economic Affairs is present here today — it could give the Norwegian economy one leg to stand on. The challenge is not a lack of professional environments. There is no shortage of competent funding environments either, because we do have some of them. They're not big enough. But first of all, the problem is seed and venture capital. It is the case in Norway that there is little private capital. You might like it or you might not like it, but that's the way it is. In this context, I am pleased that today there has been a headline in the media that the Workers' Party and the LO are approaching an agreement to do some action in relation to the property tax. That's what I want to say that I think makes sense. It will, of course, be able to move more capital to Norway, which could facilitate the situation, the lack of seed and venture capital that we have in Norway. But today we have a huge gap between good research results, good ideas and a fully developed product. This causes many of these research results to disappear from the country and to be commercialised in other countries. There is a period of development of many products in the biotechnology industry between 10 and 15 years – 10 to 12 years are relatively common. If you are going to spend ten to twelve years developing a product, you are also dependent on capital of a certain size. As I've been about, with today's regime, there are more and more ideas that have the potential to be commercialized. The question is whether we have the means today to get these commercialised. I have to say that the government has done some sensible work. Sarsia Seed in Bergen is one of many seed companies. They're in charge of 330 million. kr and has also been mandated by the government to invest in biotechnology. There are two problems with Sarsia Seed's situation: one is that they are now free of money. There are others that have always been required to invest only 30 million. kr, which will exclude a very large number of potential investment candidates, because the need for capital here is far, far greater than 30 public millions – and then 30 private millions, which is the prerequisite. Oslo Cancer Cluster organises some of the strongest biotechnology environments, not only in Norway, but also in the world. They have proposed and called for the extension of Investinor’s mandate. I know that the Council of State keeps going, but I want to ask the Council of State to follow closely. Oslo Cancer Cluster has called for the expansion of Investinor’s mandate to include biomedicine – they have said, and I would like to say that it should also apply to other types of biotechnology. They have also proposed to strengthen the transfer of funds by 500 million. kr. I do not decide whether that amount is too large or too small, but I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State as to whether it would be useful to extend the mandate of Investinor – on a permanent basis – to biomedicine. The Council of State may be aware that Investinor has already made such an investment, but it was in the context of the financial crisis. The TTOs do not have any responsibility for the Nutrient Councils, but the TTOs at the Norwegian universities are also free of money. The seed funds have used up their resources and can now only use funds to maintain the investments they have already made. So just one more thing – I see the time going on: we see that the countries that are deliberately betting on incubation are the ones that succeed – the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Finland and not least Denmark – to some extent in cooperation with Sweden. The Medicon Valley project is currently 350 to 400 enterprises, with 25 000 employees. There are 25 000 employees in a small region on the border between Denmark and Sweden who work with biotechnology, and there are very profitable jobs in relation to the use of labour. So, the value creation per year is gigantic. Finally, I will stop there. There are a lot of government councils that have to do with this. I know the government's been working on biotechnology approximation. I want the Council of State to be able to answer: Is there a need for a more general approach to biotechnology in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e2962	Let me first say that I agree with the interpellant that interpellation debates can be a good opportunity for an exchange of views and ideas between magnification and government, and that there may be differences in the quality of interpellation debates. There may also be differences in device and tone in interpellations. In my view, this interpellation is a good and relevant interpellation. There is an important field of interpellant coverage, and it is an area of activity which is growing internationally and which the interpellant itself describes, which, with demographic developments in Norway — not only in Norway but also internationally — will certainly be an important industry for many decades to come. Let me first point to some common features of the modern innovative pharmaceutical industry: It is based on excellent research, often also on basic research. There is a high-quality research, which is a necessary but not sufficient ingredient. In addition, industrial competence, commercial competence and industrial rights enforcement strategies are essential. Drug development is highly capital-intensive, usually long-term, and at high risk. This is a global business, where there is no room for local solutions. This is really an international industry, and it intervenes throughout the health sector, where there are many areas that may be of interest to industrial development, including in Norway. As the representative points out, it takes a very long time to develop a medicinal product – typically ten to twelve years – and it is expensive. The pharmaceutical industry reports that it costs on average between 6 and 7 billion. to develop a medicinal product. In other words, it can be very resource-intensive. We need to see the possibilities for strengthening the industrialisation of the pharmaceutical industry in such a perspective. I agree with the interpellant that we have a good basis to build on. In my view, one of the good reasons – and here perhaps the Progress Party and my party and the government distinguish a little layer – is that we have a strong public health system and associated patient registers. The Norwegian Register of Cancer is for example: in many ways unique. It gives us a good opportunity to develop nutrition, it gives us a good research base, it gives us good statistics and a good overview. We have good environments of competence and research with close links to our public health institutions. At the same time, we have had a good foundation for innovative SMEs in the medical sector, and new ideas and projects are emerging through our universities and health businesses. I also agree with the interpellant that venture capital is important, and here it is even more important – with high risk and long horizons and a lot of capital needs – that we look at how we can provide capital. There will be two large-scale messages in the course of the year that will both be relevant to the type of issue. One is the announcement of ownership, where we discuss how the state should use its capital wealth. The second is the instrument message that comes, on Innovation Norway and SIVA, the evaluations we have made of this, how we contribute to businesses in a start-up phase. Investinor, Seed Fund, are instruments that have had meaning. Nevertheless, we should also look into the fact that at least the first generation of seed funds did not provide the results that you might have wanted, and that it is important that the state's funds that enter as risk capital are also used in a good way. I like that approach that one sees an area that is going to grow strongly, and asks: Can Norway be part of this development, do we here have certain advantages, do we have specific opportunities here that can give us an opportunity to ensure that we participate in an industry that will have great productivity development, large markets and good income flow? With ever-increasing global competition, we need to develop areas where we can have comparative advantage – whether natural or societal – as well as investing in a general, good framework for industrial activities in Norway. The government is already investing considerable resources in medical research and the commercialisation of medical technology. Medical and health research includes an increasing proportion of the total research effort in Norway. Health enterprises and the higher education sector give high priority to medical and health research. There has also been an increase in funding for health research through the Norwegian Research Council. I mentioned the well-functioning health records as a good basis for providing patients with good treatment and follow-up, but also for researching and developing good nutrition. At the same time, it is important that we maintain good data protection, because this is important information about individuals. We want to take advantage of the high level of competence we have in the medical and health field. The interpellant mentions Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is excellent internationally in its field, but there are also other good examples. The Innovation Communication – An innovative and sustainable Norway – also affected this, in particular needs-driven innovation and industrial development in the health sector and the creation of an innovative and innovative business. We will continue to see if the instrument is well designed to meet the needs of medicine and health. Modern medical treatment, including the use of diagnostics and medicinal products, is increasingly based on biotechnology and genetic engineering. Here, too, we have considerable and long-term research efforts in the last decade. We also see the importance of other scientific and technical research in the nuclear field, such as: at the Institute of Energy Technology – that it is important for medical research is exciting. This is how our research effort has produced medical and biotechnological research environments that can certainly be involved in such an economic activity. I initially showed that medical businesses, and in particular pharmaceutical manufacturers, are targeting global markets. It also means that we have a great potential, if we succeed, but that competition is similarly demanding. Therefore, it is also important to have a good commercial and industrial competence that private business needs to use to succeed internationally. The Research Communication, Climate for Research, reports on the systematic development of the knowledge base in the broad areas of ICT, biotechnology and material technology/nanotechnology. We are now making strategies in several areas, and also having a commercial strategy, an industrial strategy, is becoming important. We are now working on a comprehensive strategy in the field of biotechnology. We just had a launch conference for nanotechnologies, and similarly, there is also a strategy for ICT. These strategies will form the basis for the business life initiatives and the research and innovation measures that we need to do to succeed. As regards the issue of access to capital and future public funding and support schemes for the development of Norwegian medicinal products, it is also necessary to look at the context of support to different sectors and industries. We have an international code that we have to deal with, of course, so that we do not set ourselves or the companies in an unfortunate situation against the international legislation that is in force. Nevertheless, the government has shown that it is possible to have a non-neutral policy that is in line with EEA legislation, WTO legislation and international agreements. We can facilitate the areas where we have a special competence, or we have a special need. With the demographic trends that the interpellant well described, with a doubling of the number of pensioners up to 2050, with fewer employed per pensioner, we need all the good forces, all the good ideas and all the technological advances that can help us get a good health care, a good care and a good age for everyone, but also for young people who need medical treatment or medicines. Here we can create good business and meet some of the most important things in our needs. I believe far on the way we have the means to get into commercial business. I definitely believe that we have a good starting point, good competence and good environments, but that the untruth is primarily about using them in the right way – and perhaps even getting the tools even more focused on the success of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3017	I use to say that if you ask three representatives of big business what we're going to live on in the future, you can be sure of two things: one is that you get three different answers, and the other is that all three are going to be wrong. By that I mean to say that maybe you should have chosen to be a little more general in relation to which class the country wants to give the most support, and who should not receive that support. But now it is once that the government has chosen a good deal of fields. Biotechnology has received very little focus, while other things have gained more focus. I think the Council of State was in on it. We have to bet where we have competence – I fully agree – or need. This may sometimes lead to a higher level of regional policy needs than industrial development and social needs. That is why I think it might be legitimate to have a debate on whether we are now going to focus more on and spend more money on business and biotechnology development. Then I think the council says very well. We have excellent research environments, we agree, we have industrial competence – and yes, it is terribly expensive to develop these products into finished products. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is not that everything that comes from Norwegian universities and medical research environments can become Norwegian products at any time. It just doesn't make sense. But it is good that we do it anyway, because it will help Norwegian patients when it comes back to Norway as ready-made products. I just want to challenge the Council of State on one more thing. It is a little out of the constitutional field of the Council of State, but it is now the case that those who provide and produce health services in Norway are engaged in research. They're doing very well. Then they also carry out patient treatment, and they do so, to a large extent, too, quite well, but there is not much innovation and demand for innovation in patient treatment, either in primary health care or in Norwegian hospitals. Should the public as a healthcare provider also start to make some demands for innovation in the treatment methods chosen? Although it is not the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, I hope that he can also believe something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3030	I have no plans to assume the responsibility of the Minister of Health. On the other hand, I can answer on a more general basis that we have a very strong culture in Norway with employee-driven innovation. Now we're probably talking about a little bit of different things here. The most advanced research on new drugs I think we're going to leave to highly qualified pharmacists, chemists and others. I don't think we're going to try that out locally in a nursing home or in a health institution, at least not without good advice from experts. On the other hand, there is a lot of innovation in how services are performed, how to add to the right working day, how to use technological tools. It's not just medicine it's a big need or potential for. Just think of what modern beds do for it worn out it previously was to lift, carry and accommodate. There are a lot of people in health and telemedicine who have succeeded in creating good products that have international benefits. There are a lot of areas that could be mentioned within the whole industry that we're now talking about. It's very difficult for politicians to say what we're going to live on in the future. There's a lot of people who've been doing a lot of good work and bombing bad. At the same time, I think it's pretty predictable that we're going to have to live by taking care of each other's health. We're going to live by taking care of each other when we get old and nurturing. This is going to be a growing market because we're growing more, because we're getting older, and because, fortunately, we're living a lot longer. We also live longer with disease. So it's pretty safe to say that this is going to be a big need, just like many of the other areas of government, like the maritime industry, the marine industry, the whole marine adventure. We're going to need a lot of proteins -- and energy, of course, as growth in both consumption and the number of people makes us need more of. In my view, this is a good -- what it's called -- running up in the image of bet areas, and I think we're going to lift this area even stronger in the years that come, just like that interpellant demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3043	It's a very exciting and complex area of interpellant here. The working party fraction has been on several business visits and has gained insight into the challenges and opportunities of research into drug development and pharmaceuticals. What was pointed at us was actually four relationships. The first was that one called for a holistic strategy. The second was long — it usually takes ten to twelve years, and in more cases even longer than that, before one has developed a medicine. The third was that this was very, very capital-intensive. And the last thing is that there's a huge lack of projects along the way. There are a few that have been successful. All of this makes the risk very high, and this again makes it difficult to raise private capital in the first decisive phase. One waits for longer in the course of investing, of your risk as it decreases significantly. When the representative, Lien, points out that the pharmaceutical industry has a great potential in Norway, I agree with that. We have a well-developed public health system with equal access for everyone, and patient records, for example. The Cancer Register. We also have good links between research, higher education/university and health institutions. Today, the government is investing huge amounts in medical research and commercialisation of medical technology. That's what we see in our universities and colleges, which prioritise this high. In addition, the government has increased funds to go to the Norwegian Research Council. It's important. The link between research and health care has been developed and strengthened, and this is an important step towards seeing health and strength. There is today an ongoing five-year effort, starting in 2007, involving needs-driven innovation and industrial development in the health sector, between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. An evaluation has been carried out here, and we in the Labour Party are looking forward to the outcome of this evaluation. There we will get some answers as to whether the public instrumentation is appropriate or whether there is a need for change. The working party is satisfied that the government is working on a holistic strategy in the field of biotechnology and that a corresponding work has been started on nano- and material technology and ICT. This is an example of listening when we are on company visits and taking the signal seriously. A holistic strategy will be very important, but, as the minister said, Norway is a small country and we have to make some choices, because we don't want to gap over everything in research into this broad field. The evaluation of the FORNY programme pointed out that there had to be some changes if we were to succeed in bringing forward the very best ideas, and I agree with the Minister in his considerations about this. We need to identify the best ideas and projects, and focus on fewer projects and spend more resources on the individual project than we need to distribute the funds a little more evenly. This makes great demands on our tool. We have discussed on several occasions the need for seed crops, Business Angels, pre-seed crops, etc. Here in the hall. The government has said that one follows this area carefully, and that one will return to any action here. We're probably all here in the hall agreeing that this is an important tool that we need to have a special focus on in the future as well. The Labour Party is in agreement with the Minister of Industry when he says that public research and innovation resources should, as a general rule, be set up to promote projects with the highest possible socio-economic profitability, regardless of the industry or sector they belong to, and that we have a lot of tools to do, but that we need to look at the dimensioning and focus on whether we use them properly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3078	The theme that the interpellant, Tord Lien, is traveling today, to take the initiative to strengthen the industrialisation of the pharmaceutical industry, is very important. The right itself found reason to focus on this part of Norwegian business when, in December last year, we promoted a proposal for a representative on a long-term strategy for biomedicine. This is linked to heavy developments in our society. Biomedicine is an industrial sector that is likely to take up more and more space in the world economy. Previous mention was made of the ageing wave, public health expectations, combined with medical innovations, and all these are factors that will contribute to this. This is an industry that our neighbouring countries systematically support. Danish biotechnology is 5 pst. of Denmark’s gross domestic product, measured in 2006 and employed more than 40,000 people. The right considers that there is good reason to go further into the reasons for the large difference in value creation between Norwegian and Danish life science. In Denmark and Sweden, authorities have clearly communicated that biopharmacy is an industry with great potential and has facilitated development. Medicon Valley, a Danish-Swedish cooperation project, is the most famous. Six of the ten largest pharmaceutical companies in the world have established cooperation with cluster companies. In Norway, we have a Cancer Cluster established in Oslo, a so-called Norwegian Centre of Expertise. The programme was established by Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Erna Solberg in 2004, and the OCC was appointed Norwegian Centre of Expertise in the summer of 2007 by the government of Stoltenberg. The journal Genome Technology of New York was created in June 2008 in Oslo to one of the 20 leading biotechns in the world in the development of new cancer and cancer diagnostics, and the only one from Europe to be on the list. This illustrates the potential of the Norwegian biomedical industry, also in a global perspective. In our proposal for a representative, the Right is focusing on several aspects that challenge the industry. Norway is the lowest in the Nordic region and below the OECD average in Europe in share of gross domestic product for research, development and innovation. In 2011, the research budget is the weakest in ten years measured in growth. Here, in the Right's opinion, there's room for improvement. In the light of the above considerations, the Right in Stortinget proposed that a comprehensive and long-term strategy for biomedicine should be developed. We underlined that such a strategy should include a targeted and holistic device in the instrument with a greater focus on utility and commercialisation. Further development of support schemes such as SkattenFUNN, FORNY, SIVA incubators, Investinor and Innovation Norway’s health sector commitment should be strengthened in order to provide a balanced range of instruments to promote research, innovation and industrial development. It is important to draw on experience from other sectors, and the Right considers that a Strategy Council for the Development of Norwegian Medicinal and Health-related Biomedical Industries should be established. The relationships that we have pointed to in our proposal, which the interpellant here addresses, believe that the Right is very important. The right agrees that access to risk capital is critical to the industry, where the development time up to the saleable product may be both 10 and 12 years. On the right, it also agrees that the pharmaceutical industry has high potential in Norway. However, it presupposes that there is a political will to take the necessary action. Let me therefore point out that the Right's proposal for a long-term strategy for biomedicine is now being dealt with in the Swedish Health and Care Committee, and that it is free for everyone to join it when it comes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3108	It's a very interesting and exciting interpellation that we have for treatment here today. As the interpellant points out, we have a good starting point. One of the reasons we have a good starting point is that we have had a far-sighted public health service that has secured us a great deal of publicly available material around disease and health. What's a point now in the further work is to be able to make the best use of this for research in a way that allows us to get good results without going into chords with privacy, and that's the great potential. Medicinal products, diagnostic tools and medical devices are a very large sector. That sector is very wide. Only in my state can we see that on the one hand we have General Electric, which is represented by a pharmaceutical production, and it is the world's largest company. On the other hand, we have small, newly established companies, which produce equipment for monitoring heart patients. So it's a very wide sector we talk about when we talk about health-related research and health-related business development. The common thing for these companies is that they're very competent. Therefore, it is important to focus on research and education. Then I can replicate to Frank Bakke-Jensen that for the last five years there has been a greater growth in Norwegian research than ever before, even in the period his party put in power. And then I can also replicate that when there is a debt to spend funds on research, Norway is well off of the OECD average in publicly funded research. But we have a challenge to get business to contribute as much as business does in other countries. It's a challenge that we have to work with. There, we like to take Right on the layer to discuss how to get business to do more research. But, as I said, the publicly funded research is increasing more now than it has done under previous governments. And then we get to what commercialization has to do. Many schemes are in place to contribute to the commercialisation of research results. Then we have the FORNY system, which has prompted us to have many commercialization units all over the country. There are arrangements that have worked well. Furthermore, we have received the TTOs, which have been mentioned here before today, which have had varying results around. But there is a relatively strong commitment to the instrument to bring competence from research into the academic environment to product in a commercial environment. They also have special commercialization units specializing in medical research, which has been mentioned here today. This applies, inter alia, to: Medinnova, who has now joined Birkeland Innovation and has developed Inven2, which has also been mentioned here before today. So there's a lot of commercialization tools going on, and I think Norway needs it, because the academic environments in Norway haven't been very focused on commercializing research results. So the fact that public support for creating tools that can be the result of research into a commercial environment is an important commitment that this and former governments have focused on. What's also a point is that, based on my experience, I've seen that if we're going to make this work, it's important to work closely together between the health care community, the academic community and commercial actors. For this reason, it is important to invest in such schemes as we have in the tools, which facilitate the support of clusters, where academia, industry and, in this case, also the health care system, enter into close cooperation. Then it's important, for example. bet on NCEs, which is one of the arrangements that Right cut into the state budget now last. Here they might have a little case that they should fix if they really believe that cooperation between the academic community and the business community is important to get new ways of feeding in Norway. So medicine is especially capital-intensive. As it has been mentioned before today, developing medicine is extremely capital-intensive. The industry that manufactures medicine, and as a developer of medicine, is dominated by some very few large international groups. For this reason, I believe that if we are to get a broad industry in Norway in the field of medicine and health-related business development, it is important to take care of the whole spectrum, that we not only bet on medical research towards developing new medicines, but also on medical technology and on diagnostic products.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3125	That is often the case when we have these debates, that I first hear a good speech from a Council of State, and then there comes a representative of the big business and shuts down what his own Council of State has said. That is why I must say it was very gratifying to hear the representative, Ingrid Heggø, who shares many of my views and I also understood the views of the Council of State. It is that Norway is a small country, and the representative Heggø is quite right in it. Therefore, we cannot succeed in everything and commercialize all the good ideas. It's a good confession to have brought with it. So the representative Heggø says we need to have more tipping. I fully agree with that. We need to focus more on things that actually work. And then the representative Holmelid was interested in something else important. He says we have a lot of arrangements. The question is whether there are the number of schemes that are decisive, or whether it is in a way the force that is behind the schemes we have. I am also very pleased that the representative Holmelid is concerned with the commercialisation of the research. It is not always the signals that have come from SV before, but that said a very good signal to bring with it in the further debate, also for the Council of State, I believe. I do not expect the Council of State to respond to this today, but I hope that the Council of State will take it into account in the further work on this: it is that we are late to use new medicines, including those developed in Norway. We are not very aggressive about tried-and-tested treatment even for patients in the palliative phase, who in some way have no offer in the Norwegian healthcare system today. Taking some action to both implement new treatment methods and new medications in the past, and not least go further in the case of tried and tested palliative treatment, could strengthen this work also by the state and the public as customers in this context. And then I'm very happy that the council says that this field is, I think he used the term, a good running up. I do not entirely agree with Mr Bakke-Jensen that it is precisely in this area that public funded research is the problem, because there we are delivering good results. The problem is to get it over that bridge, over that gap, over that gap that's there. It is true that the Council of State that can influence it to the greatest extent and build a bridge over that gap is the Minister of Industry. We have the research, it's the commercialization we need. I have no doubt that we will be able to build this bridge, at least the TTOs around the Norwegian universities and university hospitals need to be strengthened. I also believe that it must include and to a greater extent integrate biotechnology and biomedicine into the major instrument that the government and the Stortinget have. I would also like to thank both the Council of State and the representatives who have made representations for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3138	I'm pretty sure this isn't the last time we're discussing exactly this topic, neither in the context of nutrition nor in the context of health. I think this is, as this debate has also come to light, an area that is of great importance to our ability to provide good health services, but also our ability to create new, profitable jobs. So being able to use the active industrial policy instruments we have, using research and development facilities, getting a good innovative force in businesses, ensuring risk capital, making the interaction between research institutions and educational institutions and the business community work well, also providing patent rights and opportunities in an international market – yes, all the areas of active enterprise policy really consist of – come fully into being as important premises for our success in this area. We have to follow developments in the industry closely. We need to see if we need to strengthen the instruments. We need to look at how we can ensure capital access to business in general. But I also believe that this industry in particular is a good candidate for further attention. We're coming back even stronger. I have great faith in the good environments of competence that Norway has in this area, will be able to make this at least one of the areas in which we are going to live – if not after, at the same time as the oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3148	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3154	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3178	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the cessation of the activities of the Media Authority, with a view to regulating and controlling media diversity issues by the Competition Authority.’ This proposal, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3260	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 68 votes were cast for and 20 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17 55.02]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3269	President! I ask for a new vote, when the Christian People's Party belleau was a little late in the lab.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3274	All right. In these World Cup times, you shouldn't be so late in the lab. We're going to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3287	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3299	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3309	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to file a case for the Storting to introduce a 10-year period of guarantee and compulsory construction insurance or guarantee in the case of the purchase of new dwellings.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting that discusses the use and consequences of the ‘as-is’ reservation in the event of disposal purchase and that in this case a decision is taken on the introduction of the mandatory state report in the event of disposal.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the Government to file a case for the Stortinget with an inquiry into voluntary service booklets for housing.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3334	The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3351	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Oskar J. Grimstad, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government’s review of the total level of car charges and car use requires a reduction in the level of charges.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3379	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Christian Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:35 S [[2010-2011]] The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3401	During the debate, Espen Granberg Johnsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:26 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3414	Left here will support setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3431	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary changes to concession requirements for the construction of gas power plants in Norway so that gas power plants can be built without any requirement for CO2 cleaning at start-up. At the same time, the State shall promote incentives which make it economically interesting to establish CO2 clean-up plants in new gas power plants.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3465	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:31 S [[2010-2011]] The Progress Party has announced its support for the Right-wing proposal. The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3487	During the debate, Mr Ström put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:32 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3500	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3517	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the criteria for the start-up of the Augera and Tent Credit spare power plants with a view to extending them to periods of abnormally high electricity prices, as well as particularly strenuous power situations. [[SAKS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3545	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a change in the conditions of concession for the start-up of the mobile gas power plants as soon as possible so that they also take price signals into account in the market, as well as to a greater extent used to prevent a power crisis due to empty water storage.’ The right has announced support for the proposal of the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3563	In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-24.ana.ud2569e3594	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
