ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e43	The representatives of Morten Höglund, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Else-May Botten, Harald T. Nesvik, Heikki Holmås and Sven Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e81	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker was the representative Eirin Sund, who is the chairman of the Committee, then the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. – There was a somewhat optimistic script from the President here, but Eirin Sund gets the floor. I assume that Eirin Sund is the rapporteur on the matter and not the chairman of the committee, although it was a pleasant Christmas presage which then had to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e96	It wasn't that wrong, because at least I'm the other vice president of the committee, if not otherwise. Today I'm proud. I am proud because we have managed our main industry, the petroleum industry, in a good way for over 40 years. Many countries have had similar revenues from oil and gas, but very few countries have managed revenues in such a way that they benefit all citizens and communities. I'm also proud that this is something we've managed to do with a great cross-political consensus. I also record that it is largely a cross-political agreement that it is a good message we are handling here today. In addition, I think it is very fun that the message is also considered good by an overall industry, and that they think it shows the way forward in a good way. It is important for both residents and businesses in the country that we have a common understanding of the situation, and that we agree about which way to go. The elected representatives showed the way when, in 1974, the Bratteli government presented the Communication on the location of the Petroleum business in the Norwegian community. That Communication indicated that the petroleum resources would be used to develop ‘a qualitatively better society’. We've made that clear. No later than this year, Norway was designated the best country to live in by the United Nations. Now I believe that it is the labour force of the inhabitants that is our most important resource, but the petroleum industry creates great values for the community. It accounts for one-quarter of GDP, one-third of national income and half of export income. In addition, the supplier industry is No. two in the case of exports. Today, there are about 43 000 people directly dependent on the petroleum industry, but with a large supplier industry throughout the country, more than 200,000 are directly or indirectly dependent on this industry. It affects communities all over the country. 2011 has been a happy year. For the first time since the Worm Lange was found in 1997, we have made bigger findings than assumed annual production on the base. We have also found what is now called Avaldsnes/Aldous Major in the North Sea, which after the last adjustment is estimated to contain between 1.7 and 3.3 billion barrels. This makes the discovery the world's largest at sea this year, and if the highest estimate goes, it will be the third largest oil find ever made since the oil adventure started on a Norwegian base. Although figures show that total production will gradually decline from 2020, it is correct and very important that in this Communication we show that this industry is not a sunset industry, rather the opposite. The main prerequisite for further developing the oil and gas business is how much we have under the ground, and after 40 years we have collected approximately. 40 pst. of our expected extractable resources. In addition, part of the formerly disputed area that lies west of the Barents Sea demarcation line and the area around Jan Mayen. Here are many opportunities for the coming generations! We must therefore ensure that the level of activity is maintained at an evenly high level. That's why we want to run a parallel offensive bet on to increase the extraction from existing fields and the development of viable findings to continue an active exploration of open areas, both in mature and immature areas, and to carry out the opening processes for Jan Mayen and that part of the previously disputed area located west of the Barents Sea demarcation line south of After today's plans and with existing technology, about 30 billion barrels of oil will remain in place when Norwegian fields are closed. One has an expected extraction rate of 46 pst. for oil and 70 pst. for gas. We're at the top of the world on extraction. Global extraction rate for oil is only 22 pst, but an increase of 1 pst. is approximately equivalent. 570 million barrels of oil, which is now estimated to be 325 billion. kr. Large findings and other single events must not take the attention away from just this. In other places production is shut down when the profitability becomes too low for the rich oil companies, but we want all profitable barrels to be produced. Cooperation between the authorities and industry on increased extraction is an example of the Norwegian model at its best. The Åm committee, which presented its report last year, had a vision of getting the extraction rate of oil up to the equivalent of what we have on gas. Therefore, I am pleased that the Communication places great emphasis on measures to increase this extraction. Petoro is an important tool for the follow-up of mature fields and for finding good solutions to increase extraction. That was also why we increased the Petoros operating budget by 17.2 million. SEK to a total of 281,2 million. kr in the State budget for 2012. This will strengthen the competence of Petoro, so that the company can perform its role in the best possible way. Although the Norwegian petroleum industry is going too far, we have to be careful not to create a two-way Norwegian economy. First of all, it's not about spending too much oil money, but it's also important that we keep costs down on Norwegian pedestals, too high costs may threaten resource use. Cost developments on Norwegian pedestal and cost-related measures have been well addressed in the notification. Active policies are in place in this area, and since the notification was submitted to the Storting, measures for reducing operating costs and drilling costs have been initiated. These include: has taken the initiative of KonKonKraft to draw up a proposal for the follow-up to the various proposals promoted by the Committee of Experts on Increased Extraction, the Swedish Committee of Experts. Besides, it's important to look at how we can have a hard time reducing operating costs. KonKraft is doing a good job. It is important that HMS is taken care of in this. We saw last weekend, with the rigging accident in Russia, that this is something we must have a very big focus on. At first, there was probably a bit of texas in the industry here to land, too, but in the last decades we've been world leaders. Health, environment and safety are fundamental in all processes. The Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation has been the support bar for this and will be in the future as well. I am aware that Statoil will have a press conference with the trade union movement later today, where, after the event on Gullfak, they come with a seven-point list of actions and improvements. It also shows how good tripartite cooperation is, and how important this is and how high one places HMS on the agenda. Another area in which we are world leaders is technology. There's a lot of oil that can't be extracted with conventional technology. Therefore, advanced technologies capable of generating oil and gas must be prioritised and raised. We will therefore work together with key actors on Norwegian soil to increase efforts to test new technologies and to consider establishing a research centre for increased extraction. Search activity on Norwegian pedestal has increased significantly in recent years and this year will end between 55 and 60 completed wells on the pedestal. Last year, search activity led to 16 new findings. The findings were consistently small, with elements of medium-sized findings. Our aim for exploration policy is to make new findings to ensure a level playing field, the highest possible value creation and medium and long-term government revenues. Open areas for petroleum activities on Norwegian shelf cover large parts of the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the southern part of the Barents Sea. The open areas are expected to continue to be large undiscovered resources that can provide a basis for activity for many years to come. The findings of Aldous Major/Avaldsnes in the mature area show that one does not need to go abroad to find elephants. With this message, we want to maintain exploration activity and will grant extraction permits in mature and immature areas to limit the fall in petroleum production. We will therefore pursue a predictable allocation policy related to numbered rounds and TFO rounds. In general, there has been strong support for the concession system, which is famous for the predictable and open process and enjoys great confidence in the industry. It is worth noting that the interest in the TFO scheme has increased over time and needs to be seen in particular as a good offer to the many new and small companies. To this year’s TFO round, an extension of the predefined area by a total of 62 blocks or parts of blocks compared to the area of the TFO for 2010. 43 companies had applied, which is two more than last year. As mentioned above, the petroleum industry is likely to decline gradually from 2020. The main objective of the petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. It is therefore essential to open up new areas in order to maintain a significant petroleum production that will generate value creation, investments, jobs and not least government revenues in the years beyond 2020. The unopened areas are largely outside North Norway. In particular, the process of opening new areas in the Barents Sea will provide great opportunities for Finnmark. The initiative will be important for Norway in general and for Northern Norway in particular. The Nordic regions are our main strategic focus in foreign policy. We will therefore contribute to a positive development in the northernmost regions. The movement of the petroleum adventure towards the north already leads to ring-fences in the establishment of workplaces. The important thing is that we look at how we can get the best possible petroleum activity in arctic strokes. That is why I very much appreciate the fact that the Nordic knowledge institutions together with the University of Stavanger, IRIS and Norut want to establish a national center for petroleum activities in arctic regions. This is a good initiative. One of their areas of activity is recruitment and competence issues. This must be done better. We need to get more people to choose real science and relevant professional subjects. We need more engineers and good skilled workers. Recruitment to the oil industry suffers from a previous misrepresentation that oil and gas industries were on the verge. This message shows that this is not true. This is an industry for the future. I'm proud. Petroleum made us better able to choose the future. I am proud because with this message we show that we are able to manage our petroleum resources for the benefit of the Norwegian people in the future as well. Our petroleum resources are helping to give people a better daily life – every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e161	I am a follower of boasting to the government where the government deserves to boast, and in the same way give rice where it deserves it. Here's an example of the first one. The government has in many ways delivered a very good petroleum message, which is essentially in line with the view of the Advance Party, and which has, in fact, also had a very broad majority in the Storting, although there are some points where the Advance Party disagrees. But essentially, this is a positive and good message. I think the title in itself, An industry for the future, just shows it. It is good that the government has managed to gather on this. I might think that there are relatively few comments from the government parties here, giving some indication that there is not so touching consensus within the government parties. But at least it is good that the reasonable forces of the government have been given through this message. If we look at it historically, this is how fossil energy sources – the exploitation of it – mark our history with progress, development and modernisation. It's of the good. The petroleum industry and the petroleum industry in Norway have had an invaluable impact on Norwegian society as we know it today. It will also have in the future. I am also not among those who believe that this is gradually going to fad out – I think there are great opportunities. One thing is unopened areas, not least in North Norway, but we also, as technology evolves, have unconventional hydrocarbons that I think could bring the Norwegian oil and gas adventure many, many decades into the future. So this isn't a sunset diet, as it's been done in the past. This year’s findings – Aldous/Avaldsnes and Skrugard – are an indication. Now when you also politically express it more clearly, it's only of the good. What may be a little contradictory, and which is a little difficult to understand, is that the government should be able to support this communication, which is largely supported by the Progress Party, and at the same time be able to implement the reasonably strict climate targets that we expect in the climate communication – the day it is presented next year – with two thirds of a cut in Norway. We all understand that increased extraction also means increased emissions of CO2, so here it's something that's not related. Once again, I hope that it will be the reasonable forces of the government that will win until the seventh and last. In the case of climate, just Norwegian gas exports are an argument for developing and expanding Norwegian industries in this field, because it will replace coal and other more polluting fossil energy sources. Then we must have a global perspective on this, not depending on a unilateral goal for Norway as a nation. We have a slightly different vision regarding the perspectives in the petroleum message, not least in the case of electrification. We are very clear that if you are to electrify installations on the base, there must be economic reasons for this, i.e. that it is business-economically profitable, and it must also include that the bill for the infrastructure that needs to be built in order to be able to electrify must be taken by the builder himself – it cannot be rolled on to the electricity customers in this country. So to the most important – which is totally missing in this message. I even come from that part of Norway that looks forward with optimism to the day we open the fields and areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. For North Norway it will be a success. I hope that we can soon agree to also open that chapter in Norwegian oil and gas history. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1–27 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e187	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e190	In addition to the presence of oil and gas on the Norwegian base itself, the most important competitive stability and predictability of the framework conditions may be the most important. An important prerequisite for this stability is the ability to present a coherent policy for the future petroleum industry. The right is essentially in line with the kerosene notification as it is available, and is pleased that after seven years the Storting will finally have the opportunity to discuss visions, objectives and strategies for this industry, such as undisputed thrones in the first place in terms of revenue to the treasury, export incomes, competence jobs across the country, developing new technologies and the basis for the emergence of a number of heavy industrial clusters in several places in the country. It is inspiring to visit these environments whether they are in the West, in the so-called subsea valley cluster in the eastern region, the environment in the South or the new emergence of industrial and competence environments in North Norway. Investment incomes to Norway are significant, but in addition to the financial flow, it is precisely the ability to build industry and jobs that have been at least as significant. In some segments, Norwegian industrial environments are globally leading. We have the world's largest offshore market on our own base, and this has given ground to the emergence of a large supplier industry, which now ranks second over its main export industries. This has been possible, among other things. because several non-resident oil companies on the Norwegian base have been good at bringing Norwegian technology to operations in other parts of the world. Similarly, the international investment in Statoil has also meant market opportunities for many operators in the Norwegian supplier industry. The government has chosen to call this petroleum message ‘An industry for the future’. We very much agree with that from the Right; this is an industry that we need to discuss from a generation perspective. Parts of Norwegian pedestal are mature, but as we have been able to enjoy recent times, there are also opportunities in the mature areas to make big, new findings. Of course, I am thinking about the area of Aldous/Avaldsnes right outside Stavanger. In addition, Norwegian Sockets have large areas that have not yet been explored or opened. And then, of course, we have areas of more familiar geology, where we can confidently expect to find extractable amounts of hydrocarbons. However, in one of these areas, namely the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, there is a clear disagreement between us and the government. Right-wing wish to initiate an impact assessment of these areas. For the right, the question is not whether or not to open these areas of activity, but in what way and under what requirements this should happen. This is a possibility for a part of the country where the large picture is characterized by deportation. We want children today growing up in the areas of Lofoten and the Westphalia to find interesting jobs in their own neighbourhood and to see a future here. Right wants this activity to provide ground for new industries as well as growth in established establishments. The notification of petroleum places an important ambition on the future of the level of production of Norwegian cap through the description such as: is outlined in the graph on page 50 of the message. After the peak year of Norwegian oil production in 2001, the basket has gone down relatively steeply and production is almost halved. Gas production has increased and will increase for some years to come, but we need to have access to new petroleum production to keep the volume up. This adds the government, i.e. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, up to this big message, and this has the full support of Right. This means that efforts must be made in parallel on a number of fronts: we must ensure that exploration activity is high and attractive search areas are offered to companies. Furthermore, it is important to facilitate the development of fields, including: by focusing on the cost area, and last but not least that we focus on increasing resource use in existing fields. It is positive that new findings are made on a Norwegian base, but in the glare above these findings and the renewed optimism the industry is showing today, it may be even more important to highlight the importance of the values in increasing the extraction rate of the socket. With today's investment plans, we have an average extraction rate of 46 pst. for oil. This is a high number on a global scale, but at the same time it means that more than half of the oil is left lying. This represents large values for the state funds, oil companies and industry. For each percentage we can increase the extraction rate of oil, this means, as the message describes, gross sales revenue of 325 billion. kr – a large number, for which it may be difficult to understand the meaning of. A key challenge in petroleum policy will be to provide a framework to stimulate a development in which we get the most resources from each field. The government has focused on this in the petroleum message, but I fear that the grips they sketch are too few and too weak. In addition, unfortunately, there is not much in the 2012 budget that gives us reason for great optimism. Two million. In addition to petroleum research, are we going to have confidence in the government's words about the importance of research? Similarly, Petoro has increased by 17.5 million. kr for 2012, a few more millions, yes, but still quite puzzled in relation to the income opportunities represented by increased extraction rates, and the key role we see Petoro must have in the future. Similarly, the Oil Directorate is and must be an important premiscuous supplier. The right, together with the other opposition parties, has a number of proposals that we promote together with all or part of the opposition. Many of these proposals are linked to the desire to stimulate increased use of resources in existing fields. Two of the grips that are likely to have the greatest effect are an overall opposition at the rear, namely: Firstly, the willingness to change the petroleum tax system in a direction that stimulates increased extraction. This isn't meant to be a tax haven for the industry, we want this distortion within a revenue neutral framework. Every company is responsible for its focus and investments, and tax changes are probably the most powerful instrument we can use. Secondly, the willingness to strengthen Petoro by taking the company out of the state budget and letting it finance itself through the cash flow from the socket. This will provide the company with both muscle and flexibility to maintain the state’s ownership of the socket – not least to ensure a focus on increased use of resources in existing fields. After the merger between Statoil and Hydro, Statoil appears as a dominant player on the Norwegian base. Right-wing believes that diversity and real competition in a market are the best guarantors of dynamic development — and a development in which we are able to exploit the potential of our socket. The role of Petoro in representing alternative ideas and solutions has become even more important since this merger. I am pleased that an overall opposition asks the government to review the effects of this merger on, among other things. the supplier industry, technology development and research and extraction rate. In addition to these points, our proposals are linked to an increase in the rate of extraction concentrated around actions aimed at making the ability and willingness of oil companies to investigate, plan and actually take action to deliver results. And we want these companies to be premiered next time, for example. the extension of licence periods and, in the case of new licences. Furthermore, the Right wants us to also use the distribution of licences and operators to create greater competition between the players on the Norwegian base, among others. to reduce the dominant position of Statoil. Research and technological development play a central role in the petroleum industry. There are no other areas that can measure by the yield per krona invested in research than precisely in petroleum. Strong efforts in this area have given ground to the creation of many enterprises, for increased resource use, for cost reductions, for quantum leaps in offshore production solutions, for environmental considerations, security and preparedness. Unfortunately, State resources for petroleum research have been reduced during this government. The right-hand side, as an ambition, has a level of about 600 million. to strengthen programmes such as: Petromaks and Demo 2000. Unfortunately, our 40-year-old petroleum history has also caused accidents that have claimed human life. All petroleum activity involves risks both to health and the environment, and unfortunately we got this weekend's sad news from our neighbouring Russia, where the Russian rigging "Kolskaya" sank while moving in the Okhotsk Sea, and as many as 50 people are frightened to death. Our joint task between politicians, bureaucrats, employers and employees is to work continuously to reduce the risk of adverse events as far down to zero as possible. We have a lot to be proud of in this area, not least because governments, companies and employees' organisations are working together constructively. The right, together with the other opposition parties, has several proposals to strengthen the preparedness process. The accident in the Gulf of Mexico last year was serious, but at the same time it made it clear that Norwegian administration and Norwegian environments of competence could contribute – precisely because we ourselves have strict regulations and requirements in this area. There's a lot of positive in the message, and the right joins most of what's in it. The notification sets an ambitious target for the petroleum industry in the years to come. The challenge for the government — and especially the Minister of Oil and Energy — is to take effective action. It helps little with big words and great views in a big message if it is not followed up in the daily policy. Unfortunately, we have been able to see that, even if the notification is drawing up the government's petroleum policy, it is the sole government councils and the government coalition representatives who have spoken out against what is stated in the notification. Talking about self-imposed extraction restrictions on the socket, I find it difficult to see is consistent with the ambitions presented in the notification. When single-country councils are so dissenting from what is in the notification, there is uncertainty in Norway’s main industry about what the government really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e232	Despite the fact that both the Advance Party and the Right have an impression of the opposite, SV also believes that this is a good petroleum message. It is partly because the violent values that Norway manages in the form of petroleum wealth require an eye to the dilemmas that wealth brings, both economically and climatically. Norway’s oil wealth is a long success story compared to very many oil rich countries. In countries like Nigeria, Angola and the downtrodden Saudi Arabia, oil wealth has not brought about greater social equality, equal distribution and value creation that benefits everyone. The empire has not given more democracy, greater respect for individuals or a more even burden-sharing among people. On the contrary, in very many countries oil resources have contributed to political unrest, social distress and, in many cases, to a more severe repression of the population and individual groups. It is a problem we still have to deal with around the world. In addition to the wealth of oil and gas resources for Norway, it is a gift that the oil in Norway has contributed to greater value creation, better distribution and better life for many in Norway, that the environment and other industries are taken into account when decisions are taken, that we have a world-leading HMS legislation, which we are to fence, continue and strengthen, that we have open and democratic processes for the allocation of oil activities, which we are now making even more open, so that we can have the debates of many other countries at all, that we ensure local content and local jobs, that climate policy and the two-degree objective are the basis of Norwegian oil and energy policy, that we have self-imposed economic rules that prevent the unwise use of oil wealth, and even sometimes leave open areas to be imposed, even if the opposition so wishes. We have many fresh debates on oil policy, and we will continue to have them. The fact that there are differences in oil and gas policy between the Progress Party, the Right, the Center Party, the SV, the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party is no wonder. We will continue to hold those debates. It's still going to be fighting, for example. of the kind we saw in Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja. I believe it is a strength that a total accumulation can nevertheless stand together on some principles of petroleum policy. That is what the overall observations of the majority have to be interpreted as. Soria Moria II states that Norway should have a steady rate of extraction, not tut and drive, such as: The party of progress wants, and it is gratifying that the opposition is now largely committed to it. That the opposition criticises parts of the message is not so surprising. But it's worth noting that organizations like, for example, ZERO says the following: ‘The oil notification is surprisingly positive for the use of power from countries to cut greenhouse gas emissions from Norway’s main emissions sector. We are pleased with this and we have great expectations for the climate communication that must follow this up." That is how we are going to link Norway's objectives in the field of petroleum policy with Norway's objectives in the field of climate policy, and it is felt that this matter is important, it is quite possible to achieve, despite the fact that the Progress Party questions it. The most important measure to ensure that there is climate and environmental coherence in what we are doing is not to say yes to every area that parts of the oil industry have to want to open, as we do, for example. has decided for the Skagerrak, for the Mortars, for the Lophoth, for the Vestreel, and for Senja. Large sections of the opposition want to ignore the great local resistance and consideration for the vulnerable environment and open these areas as quickly as possible, and also take this fight in the light of the notification of petroleum. But then they undermine an important part of Norwegian oil policy. It has never been a goal in itself to open everything as quickly as possible. There's a line going from the Temporal Committee to what we're dealing with today. In the debate on the state budget last week, the Right described a reality in which the parties against oil drilling in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja made weak decisions. That's right. But the Right closes its eyes because the movement towards oil drilling in these areas is much larger than the parties that support them. It should be a signal to parties like Right. SV had some of their best election results in the autumn just in the municipalities that we are talking about. Only if the focus is largely focused on extraction in existing fields, the future use of CO2 as pressure support, which the notification addresses, and proper management of the areas we have already opened, can debate the opening of new fields. But it's going to hang on to climate change. The future development of oil and gas needs to be constantly assessed in the light of climate objectives and policies we implement in order to avoid dangerous climate change. I have a lot more on my heart, but it seems that I have to take it in a three-minute post afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e262	Norwegian petroleum industry is Norway's largest and most important industry, measured in both value creation, export income and government income. The enterprise has provided jobs and activities across the country, contributing to the development of industry, technological development and societal development that benefit the entire community. The management of these huge natural resources requires great potential, but also great responsibility both for long-term management and for the environmentally sound use of resources. The centre party wants to manage its oil and gas resources in such a way that they benefit future generations and the environment. We are now in a time of declining oil production, while the extraction of gas remains path. Therefore, the best possible use of existing fields in operation is necessary and good management. The centre party believes that good use of existing fields should be given priority over opening new areas. In our programme, we have a clear focus on resource saving rather than financial saving. Such a policy will also lead to the spread of the ringing effects of oil and gas activities over a longer period of time. New extraction technologies have led to the extraction of an increasing proportion of oil reserves. Such technology development leads to better use of resources in terms of increased extraction in current oil fields, but new technologies and high energy prices allow for more areas that were not previously profitable to be so. Oil extraction rate, allocation of lead area and extraction potential are politically controlled processes. That's good. This leads to ongoing work on opening processes linking e.g. to the formerly disputed area of the south-east Barents Sea. At the same time, the government does not open up to petroleum activity in vulnerable areas such as the Lofoten and Senja and the Mora Blocks. This is in line with the Central Party's agreed policy. There are great values to get by increasing the recovery rate in the fields on the Norwegian socket. This is important for both resource considerations, economic considerations and given that the time window for field extraction is limited and the cost of reopening fields could be far higher than the lengthening of field production. The demanding situation in the rigging market will therefore be important to look more closely at, for several reasons as announced by the government, also to assess whether it leads to new fields being prioritised over better use in existing fields. Furthermore, a good and well-functioning TFO scheme will be important to ensure progress in projects in mature areas and infrastructure development and thus ensure a good exploitation of the open areas. The centre party is satisfied that the TFO system is now being passed on, and with the improvements that are now coming into place by introducing a public hearing on the scheme. Health, the environment and security must be the priority of the petroleum industry, and from the centre party's side we think there is good reason to be proud of the progress made on the Norwegian base in this area through our petroleum history. Clear demands and expectations from the government, along with technology development and industry's will, have made us between those places in the world where health, the environment and security are the highest priorities. The industry is also distinguished by other activities in this field. It provides security for the many who work on a Norwegian base and on our farms, and for their families. It also provides important security in order to avoid emissions from production that could damage nature, the environment and coastal industry. However, in the years ahead, HMS work and oil protection must be subject to further improvement. Greenhouse gas emissions are the biggest challenge facing the world. The government's objective in climate policy is to contribute to limiting the anthropogenic increase in temperature to a maximum of 2 °C compared to pre-industrial levels. To achieve this goal, a continuous change of the global energy system is needed. It will also touch the Norwegian petroleum industry. We need to maintain energy efficiency and further develop stringent environmental requirements in oil and gas production. I am pleased with the offensive signals that the Council of State has made when it concerns electrification of fields. Petroleum industry is a major part of Norway's greenhouse gas emissions, and electrification, with renewable energy available on land, will be an action that will significantly reduce our emissions. The Council of State has also been clear when it comes to the fact that the petroleum industry is going to have ringing effects on land in the regions in question. The notification has clear requirements for the company operating on the base, both through development and operation plans and, subsequently, by referring to the ringing effects that have occurred locally as a result of the offshore activity in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e288	The oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base are a carrier in the Norwegian economy and will continue to be so for many years to come. Oil and gas activities have had ring-fenced effects in the form of jobs across the country and have contributed to the development of industry, technology and societal development that has benefited the whole country. Norway had not been where we are today without our oil and gas business. The Christian People's Party wants to invest in increased extraction of oil from existing fields on Norwegian soil to ensure good and responsible management of the resources already found. The Christian People's Party also wants a further commitment to the exploration and extraction of new fields, especially in the north, with the exception of particularly vulnerable and valuable areas where the risk of oil extraction is too great. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that in April 2010, the government reached agreement with Russia on the borderline in the formerly disputed area of the Barents Sea south and the Arctic. This is an area where we believe that large oil and gas deposits can be found, and where the risk of extraction is less than in more coastal and vulnerable areas. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the launch of an impact assessment — under the Petroleum Act — in this area. The communication and suspension we are debating today show that there is a broad consensus on many of the major lines of petroleum policy. That's good. This is good because this is such a large and important area for AS Norway. But the setting also shows that there are some political disagreements. Strangely enough, the Christian People's Party is all alone about some critical remarks in the setting, although we know that several other parties agree with us in the content of these. The left is not in the committee, so that's some of the explanation. But why SV does not say the same thing in the Storting as they say in the media, I think they should answer for it. I have noticed that SV has not joined comments on the protection of vulnerable areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Jan Mayen, search policy, or the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the base. The Government announces that knowledge of the effects of petroleum activities in the north-east Norwegian Sea, including Northland IV, V, VI, VII and Troms II, will be started. Unopened parts of Northern Ireland IV and V are simultaneously opened to petroleum activities. These are highly vulnerable marine areas at the very entrance of the West Fjord. The government also announced the implementation of an opening process for the sea areas outside Jan Mayen. The Christian People's Party wants to preserve these areas of petroleum-free, and therefore sees no need to initiate the knowledge acquisition and mapping of petroleum resources in these areas. The Christian People's Party is also critical of the government's announced extension of the TFO system. The scheme, established in 2003, was intended to ensure the detection and extraction of petroleum resources that could be phased into already existing installations in so-called matured areas. The TFO has been criticised by both the Climate and Pollution Directorate and the Directorate for Nature Management in order to reduce the influence of environmental protection authorities on allocations. TFO has now expanded inwards into one of the highest priorities of the valuable areas of the Barents Sea, an area that can hardly be called ripe. During the nine years since 2003, 324 extraction permits have been granted through the TFO, representing more than one third of all permits granted since the start of the oil industry in 1965. The Christian People's Party believes this shows that the TFO has grown far beyond what was the intention of the arrangement when it was launched, and that it should not be extended further, as the government says. The petroleum sector accounted for 27 p.m. in 2009. of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The Communication sets out to increase emissions by 23 pst. until 2020, which is equivalent to 3 million. tonnes of CO2 per year – this despite the fact that the climate agreement size has decided to reduce the petroleum and energy sector emissions by between 3 and 5 million. tonnes by 2020. Sectoral climate action plans were one of the main winners of the SV climate communication. Now that emissions are increasing rather than decreasing, it is likely that new measures were proposed to adjust this rate. But no, that's not happening. That is why the Christian People's Party has high expectations for the climate communication on what measures the government will come with to reduce emissions on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e310	It is a long-term message we handle in Stortinget today. It was a while there was uncertainty about whether the government would present this message, and the Left is pleased that the government saw that it made sense. There is a lot of good reading in the message, but there are elements where we disagree – the same applies to some of the comments in the setting. When the Left is not in the Committee, I have to use the limited time to comment on some of the elements in the Communication, but I would like to start by mentioning that the Left believes Norwegian petroleum production has been, and is, very important for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian welfare and for Norwegian economy. The left considers that it is fully possible to operate economically sustainable oil and gas extraction while taking into account the environment, health and safety. The left considers that there is a clear and increasing gap between Norway’s climate targets and the emissions expected on Norwegian continental shelf. In the projections underlying the Storing Communication, emissions from Norwegian pst are increasing by 23 pst. in relation to the industry emissions estimate in the Climate Action Plan. This was also the representative Line Henriette Heimdal inside – I am pleased about that. If these forecasts are realised, they will effectively fall below the emission targets underlying the climate agreement, not least in the medium term. The signals from Environment Minister Erik Solheim that these should be reviewed in the context of the Climate Action Communication to be presented in the Stortinget in 2012 are important in this respect. This Communication presupposes that the EU maintains a medium-term climate policy to enable Norway to continue to sell gas to the continent. Furthermore, the government warns that they will work to increase the use of gas in Europe. I would therefore like to ask the Left for clarification from the oil and energy minister here today on what is most important: an ambitious EU climate policy or to export Norwegian fossil gas to the continent. The left believes that it is completely wrong for Norway to conduct lobbying for increased use of gas towards the EU, as it could lead to a lower climate policy and weaken Norway’s credibility in international climate negotiations. The so-called TFO scheme is being evaluated and changed in the Storing Message. The change means that environmental considerations are to be taken into account only exceptionally when the government decides where to grant industry access to mature areas on a Norwegian base. The left is critical of the fact that this scheme is so far from the original intention when it was launched in 2003 and does not consider that it should be extended in line with the practice used in this Communication. Finally, I want to take up three things that the left will pay special attention to. The first is increased focus on HMS. Due to several near-accident accidents on Norwegian soil and the detection of bad practices, there is a continuing need to ensure that practices are in line with the legislation and that the legislation is in line with best practice. The other area is the increased costs we've seen, and will see, in the future. If there's something that should really worry about an overall diet, there's a lack of ability to keep costs to a reasonable level. That is why the Left will vote in favour of the proposals that can help with this issue. The last topic I want to address is oil extraction from existing fields. There is a lot of political discussion about access to new fields. But even the Lofoten and the Vestreål – which Left will still fight with beaks and claws to protect permanently – contain little oil and gas compared to the already known resources on Norwegian pedestal. If we can increase the extraction rate by 1 pst, the gains for the Norwegian community are enormous. In conclusion, I would like to explain how the Left will vote to the seventh and last. We will support all the proposals of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the vote. Then we will support the proposals from the Right and the Progress Party – the proposals No. 16, 17, 22, 24, 26 and 27. Then I would like to address the proposal that has been put forward by the Left, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e336	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e340	Norway’s petroleum resources are the property of the Norwegian people and will benefit the entire community. Norwegian oil policy early indicated that oil and gas resources should be used to develop a better quality society. Activities shall be conducted within a sound framework for health, the environment and safety. It has been the starting point for the management of resources over the last 50 years. It also has to be the starting point for the future. The result of the administration has been the development of a Norwegian industrial environment — competence in oil and gas. The Norwegian supplier industry is world-class. Norway has become a major power within energy. This is a field in which Norway makes itself applicable internationally. It has become our largest export industry, after exports of oil and gas. There is an industry spread throughout the country that demonstrates power and strength on its own bones, and that does exactly what I mentioned earlier – creates the possibility of a better quality of life across the country. Our role as energy storm power commits. Today, 1/5> of Europe's gas consumption is covered by Norwegian gas. Europe cooks its food and heats its houses with our gas. Our gas can help our European friends achieve ambitious climate targets. To succeed further, predictability is required. This message contributes strongly to it. World energy consumption is increasing year by year, as millions of people are being lifted out of poverty. This is a development we can't, nor do we want, to slow down. Population growth, industrialisation and economic development lead to increased energy consumption and the transition to modern forms of energy. As one of the world's largest energy exporters, Norway means something in this context. The broad political majority behind Norwegian petroleum policy is a strength for the business. It has provided stable and predictable conditions for over 40 years. The broad lines of the policy are set out in the main message ‘An industry for the future — about the petroleum industry’. It is important for me, the government and Norway that the entire committee believes that the notification of the enlargement continues the main objectives and the long-termity of the policy. This is a good starting point for further success on the Norwegian base. To achieve this objective, governance must be comprehensive and based on knowledge and facts. It is important to build on the successful management of resources. In order to achieve this, the government is making adjustments in policy – in order to adapt the instruments to new environments both internationally and on a Norwegian basis. The Communication presents a strategy for Norwegian pedestal, namely a parallel approach in several areas: increased extraction from existing fields and the development of viable findings, exploration in new areas and the opening of new areas. The government has an active policy and has already delivered in many of these areas. There is a high level of activity related to field in operation. The Ecofisk field and the Firefish field will increase the extraction by nearly 500 million barrels alone as a result of projects approved by the Stortinget earlier this year. Not later than today, the government submitted to the Storting for approval Åsgard underwater compression, where the projects contribute to increased extraction by putting into service available capacity on existing infrastructure and prolonging the lifetime of this infrastructure. These are projects that are limited in time. There are projects that will not be implemented if the installations are no longer in place. That means they're time-critical, that also means that they're important, and I'm very happy that an overall committee and a total accumulation are joining in that new fields, new big findings, should not mean reducing focus in this important area. The allocation in mature and immature areas provides the basis for long-term value creation. The Ministry will grant new permits in connection with the TFO 2011 in the new year. TFO 2012 is in the start-up phase. The extension of TFO areas has been at public consultation. The Ministry has started the 22nd concession round with a view to granting new extraction permits in the spring of 2013. Let me add that here I think there is reason for optimism. The prospectivity that Norwegian socket has shown in the last year, I hope I mean that more people show interest in this in the future. The notification is sent to the industry to the north. Giving the northernmost part of the country the same opportunities as you've seen in the rest of the country, I think it's both right and right. It facilitates the message in interaction with the continent. We will deliver on strategies drawn up in the Single European Act in the coming years. We've come a long way. This is important, because it will contribute to even better quality life for the Norwegian people in the future, and some better motivation than this one cannot have as a politician. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e371	The Communication makes it quite clear that by 2020 CO2 emissions will increase by 23 pst. compared to the 2007 Climate Action Plan. State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen has said that you might have to deviate from the two-thirds target. LO has probably suggested the same thing, if you want to understand it correctly, and it's very hard to understand that what's a positive tone in the kerosene message is compatible with the SV's climate rhetoric in particular. This is simply not related. My question is: does the Council of State believe that the two-thirds CO2 cut target is compatible with a reasonable, rational, management of our natural resources, hydrocarbons? And is it compatible with providing Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e384	There is an overall government behind the kerosene message. There was also an overall government that supported the presentation of the previous climate communication and that was behind the climate agreement – all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party. The Progress Party is also the only party that, in its comments, problems the causal link between CO2 emissions and man-made climate change. I am absolutely sure that when we present the climate communication, it is going to be an overall government that is also behind it, and that presents offensive climate targets to the Stortinget. There are two-thirds of the target. It's a goal that I set myself all the way back, as it's written into the climate agreement. In the last climate agreement, power from countries emerged as an important climate action for the oil and gas industries. It has been followed up by the government, and there are many fields that have received their power supply from land over the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e396	2011 has shown that you don't have to go to the safari to find elephants. The question now is whether there are some elephants further north as well. The government has announced that it will initiate the acquisition of knowledge beyond the Lofoten and the West Pole. If the knowledge acquisition provides satisfactory answers – or raises the level of government knowledge, if you want to, to a satisfactory level – what is the pace and timing that the Council of State sees in terms of impact assessment and opening up of Northland VI, VII and Troms II?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e403	Thank you for the question. It must be allowed to add that the Right obviously does not need the knowledge that the government is now doing, simply because the conclusions have been drawn in good time before the knowledge is put on the table. So I think that the further process around Lofoten and the Westphalia is going to be, to the most extent, a political question characterised by what assessments the different political parties make in their programming processes and towards their national meetings in the spring of 2013. I hope and believe that the work we are doing now can be a good and important contribution to the work that the parties are going to do, which will once again form the basis for the programming, and which – I think – will once again form the basis for whether or not we will see an impact assessment in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e414	Greenhouse gas emissions are the biggest challenge facing the world. It must also have implications for the Norwegian petroleum sector, said the Chairman of the Committee, about that, in his speech. The petroleum sector accounted for 27 pst in 2009. of the total Norwegian emissions. In the message we are adopting today, it is added up to 23 pst. increase, corresponding to 3 million tonnes of CO2 per year. We know that in the climate agreement, in this sector too, we are going down by between 3 and 5 million tonnes by 2020. My question goes on with what the chairman of the committee said: What will be the biggest challenge facing the world for the Norwegian oil and gas sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e426	Thank you for a good and important question. I think the world needs to solve its poverty and development problems in parallel with solving the climate challenges – two of our most important issues. Then I believe that the main contribution of Norwegian oil and gas production is through the way it happens – we have the cleanest and most resource-efficient socket in the world. If all countries had produced oil and gas with as low CO2 emissions per unit as we do in Norway, emissions would have been reduced by hundreds — perhaps billions — of CO2 each year. Fakeling alone – globally – contributes to international greenhouse gas emissions of 400 million tonnes per year. It is close to eight times Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions. So I believe that Norwegian oil and gas industries will in the future do more of what they do – increase efficiency, increase energy efficiency, reduce carbon footprint for each produced unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e441	The left has a proposal in the Chamber today that we ask the government to come up with a case that will ensure that future expansion and conversion will, as a general rule, be based on emission-free power from land. I remember very well the former councillor Åslaug Haga, who was very clear on this. The chairman of the Committee was also clear today, and I also heard that the Minister for Oil and Energy was clear on this in his answer to the first question. So my question is: does the Council of State think that this is going on fast enough, or could he wish for a more offensive attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e448	It's moving forward fast in this area. Over the last few years, many new fields have gained power from land. I also believe that this has shown the Storting some of the questions that we need to solve in this regard – among other things. there is a need for sufficient power on land to take it from land. If it doesn't have very unfortunate consequences. We've seen examples of that. We also need to keep an eye on the power balance, so that you know that the power to use offshore, if any, actually comes from renewable energy. Imported coal power from Denmark to electrify Norwegian fields can hardly be called an environmental progress. We're now working, through green certificates, on the build-up of capacity, and we also have to have a look at costs. Some of this is profitable, in all senses of the word, but other projects are not. Then there will be a question of what priority – do you prioritize this, or do you give priority to other things? [[President clubs]] But we're moving ahead in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e453	The President asks that speaking time be respected by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e457	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e462	It is a fact that within the government there is great resistance, and division, in terms of oil drilling in different places in Norway. Both the representative Serigstad Valen and the representative Sande clearly state that oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Western Sea is not desirable. Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has also said that even if they can be economically viable, they should not be thrown into all the oil fields. So my question to the Council of State is really whether he agrees that there will be large areas on the Norwegian pedestal that will lie fallow, that you should not do oil exploration there. Further: Does the Council of State agree that it is right to leave fields that are economically viable, just lie down without extracting the oil or gas there?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e469	In this message and in this setting, an overall government – and a total growth – confirms that, in open areas, we want to bring about all the profitable expansions, in order to make better use of resources and, of course, to improve the socio-economic management of resources. So that side of the question I think is well answered, both through government treatment and the treatment of the Storting. There is no reason for uncertainty about it. So, as the representative points out, there are different opinions about what is going to happen in the future on parts of the Norwegian base. It's not a new issue. This is how I feel that it has been almost always said, and there are a lot of considerations to be taken into consideration. Through the management plan, the government states that the Lofoten and the West Bank will not be open to impact assessment during this major period. It's consistent with the Center Party program. What happens in the next period — well, it gets a new national meeting, and a new choice, decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e479	In the petroleum industry, 2011 will go back as a good year. A high level of activity and new significant findings in both the North Sea and the Barents Sea leave the industry in a state of great hope for the future. For the first time since the Worm Lange was found in 1997, we have probably made significantly larger findings in 2011 than assumed annual production on the base. New fields shall be developed and existing installations maintained and upgraded. This is good news for the Norwegian economy in a situation where dark clouds again threaten the world economy. Directly and indirectly employs the business of over 200,000 people in Norway, while a high level of taxation and the direct ownership of the country contribute to the bulk of the value added in the industry to the community, and it is important to include it. Petroleum industry is a long-term industry dependent on clear governance signals from policy authorities. Seven years after the previous notification, we note that the main lines of the petroleum policy are solid and that the understanding of the needs of the industry and the importance of the Norwegian economy is present. It is good that the industry supports the opinion of the authorities that the challenges associated with maintaining the level of production on Norwegian pedestal have to be met on several fronts. We need increased extraction from existing fields, more exploration and opening of new areas. The title of the oil notification determines that the petroleum activity is an industry for the future. If governments and industry are involved, this activity could be a carrier of the Norwegian economy for decades to come. Then we must have the courage to bet together. Falling production and limited new findings in recent years have contributed to some having chosen to view this industry as an industry without a future. Developments through 2011 point to the fact that there may still be significant resources to pick up both mature and so far immature parts of Norwegian pedestal. The industry supports the authorities’ view that the challenges of maintaining the level of production on Norwegian pedestal have to be met on several fronts. We need increased extraction from existing fields, more exploration and opening of new areas – as I have also said before. The findings in the North Sea and in the Barents Sea are all important and spur new efforts. However, they are not large enough to prevent falling production beyond 2020. That's why it becomes incredibly important to get the knowledge that is now taking place in Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II, so that we can look at the possibilities for facilitating a further impact assessment of these fields. This has also been discussed in the past. The main objective of the petroleum policy is to ensure long-term management and value creation from the petroleum resources. The role of a petroleum producer shall be combined with an ambition to lead the environment and climate policy. Management shall be comprehensive and based on knowledge and facts. The management of resources shall take place within a sound framework in terms of both health, the environment and safety. The impact of the petroleum industry has as its starting point that the world will need more secure energy in the future and that oil and gas have a role to play in future energy policies too. The Storting Communication sets ambitious targets for this activity on a Norwegian base, with the aim of facilitating new findings and exploration and to increase the degree of extraction in existing fields and to maintain strict HMS requirements on a Norwegian base. The Communication continues the overall political basis for the petroleum activity laid down in Soria Moria II, which states that the government will maintain the value creation, employment and competence of the petroleum industry at a high level. In addition, Soria Moria II states that exploration activities should be maintained, that the oil industry should have access to interesting exploration areas and that the extraction rate on the Norwegian base should be increased. Petroleum activities have contributed to the establishment of a competitive oil and gas industry which has created a number of profitable and attractive jobs. As I said before, over 200,000 people are connected to this industry. If I don't remember correctly, I actually think there are only four–five municipalities in this country that are not related to this industry. This is an important industry for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e496	Today we treat Report. Article 28 for 2011–2012, the notification of petroleum, as the government calls a industry for the future – about the petroleum activity. The government is adding up to a high level of activity on a Norwegian pedestal in the future. The main objective of the government's petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in the long term. All activities in the management of oil and gas resources shall be carried out within a sound framework as regards health, the environment and safety. When the first oil was picked up from the Ecofisk field, there was a clear formation that petroleum activity north of the 62nd parallel was very risky. Norway had no oil and gas extraction supplier industry 40 years ago. However, it took a relatively short time for this industry to develop very positively. Today, the Norwegian supplier industry is world leader in very many requested areas of offshore and petroleum activities. Industrial clusters have grown up in many places along the coast. In my own part of the country, companies in the NODE group are world leaders in the supply of cranes and drilling equipment. Orders of over 100 billion. kr is not uncommon. A lot goes to export today. Large oil and gas deposits in the Norwegian sector have made it possible to develop this equipment, even though costs have been high. Today the results of this development are harvested in the form of equipment exports. Over 40 years of experience in oil and gas extraction from the North Sea. The skeptics often claimed that there would be contamination on land by this activity. To date, oil emissions from Norwegian fields have not reached the country, although there have been some large emissions. The largest emissions came from the Bravo blast in 1977, at a time when the industry was very young in the Norwegian sector. As we know, the oil business threshold north of 62th latitude was exceeded a long time ago. The snowy white field outside Hammerfest is the northernmost in the Norwegian sector. It is unnatural for the Progress Party to have left areas in Lofoten and the West Pole with great potential for oil or gas discovery unopened for exploration. TV 2 had a notice in November that almost 70 pst. by the local population in this area would like an impact study on oil and gas exploration. For the whole country, the figure is approx. 80 pst. in the same case. This is contrary to what the representative Serigstad Valen said earlier today. In this room, there is an overwhelming majority for the launch of a impact assessment, but the government is holding back because of the SV and partly the Center Party. The importance of maintaining the areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål is not a matter of much disagreement. It is therefore essential that the necessary oil protection equipment is developed and produced before any oil production starts from the areas. The Progress Party, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, is therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘During the spring of 2012, the government is asking for a sample to be set up to look at how we can strengthen technology, product development, industrial construction and oil protection preparedness competences.’ If a petroleum activity is established, each oil company will bring with it a significant oil protection resource in terms of competence and equipment. The oil protection equipment currently on the market is not good enough to prevent the oil from being released from land. Just as the Norwegian supplier industry has developed and now supplies to the oil industry worldwide, it should be possible to develop oil beer collection equipment that can be used with good results in bad weather. Even today, there is an oil protection equipment industry in Norway, and with greater resources for research and development, this could be a major Norwegian industry. Another important condition for a safe petroleum industry in the northern regions will be to have sufficient tug capacity – not only for use in the construction of Norwegian-side fields. Large tankers pass Norwegian territory in the north with oil from Russian oil fields. If the ship's crew is laid far enough away from land, together with a sufficient towboat capacity, the likelihood of oil spills reaching Norwegian areas will be significantly reduced. Finally, safe oil and gas development in the northern regions requires good oil protection equipment and adequate towing boat preparedness. The extraction of oil and gas from the north will then be a major contributor to further developing our high standard of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e516	This grossing-up message has been given the name A industry for the future – about the petroleum activity. This is an entirely correct name for an oil and gas notification in Norway. Whatever the attitude towards the petroleum industry, I think everyone must be able to admit that this industry has been, is and will be very important for the work, housing and well-being of our country. I want to praise the forward-looking politicians who, almost half a hundred years ago, facilitated the development of a forward-looking petroleum industry, and who could see the opportunities that this industry would provide. Think if the majority in the mid-1970s had followed the proposal of the Progress Party that the state should sell the Norwegian petroleum resources for a few billion dollars. Fortunately, this form of privatisation has faded over the years. The petroleum industry is so undoubtedly an industry for the future, and it is very important that the industry has a presence where the resources are located and where they are to be picked up. Through the media, we can get the impression that there is great resistance to oil and gas activity in the north, but I don't see that attitude in my own part of the country. I travel a lot in the country, and I talk to people in both the village and the city. I record a positive attitude, but people require increased activity and ring-effects when new areas open up to petroleum activity. North Norway is still struggling with deportation. In particular, it is alarming that so many young people are moving from part of the country. Nord-Norway needs skilled jobs so that young people taking higher education can get jobs in the country in which they belong. Today, such jobs attract young people to the south. The petroleum industry is an industry that needs a significant share of highly skilled labour and labour across a wide range. Therefore, it is important that operators establish themselves in the national part of the country as the petroleum activity increases in the north. In the government’s Northern Region Strategy, the overall objective is to create sustainable growth and development in the northern regions. This is about people in the north being able to build a life in viable communities, with future-oriented jobs and good welfare offers. Therefore, the North Region Initiative is a responsibility for both the central authorities, the counties, the municipalities, the business community and the individual of us. I would like to stress that it is also the responsibility of both local and regional authorities to facilitate the establishment of business with them, and here the State agency must provide the necessary relief. In this way, we can achieve ring-effects of petroleum activity throughout the country. In the setting, the Progress Party and the Right propose to remove the boundary of the Norwegian International Skip Register (NIS). I am pleased that today's government has focused on designing, following up and implementing a comprehensive maritime strategy with competitive framework conditions for shipping companies and seafarers. The net pay scheme was introduced, as is known, to ensure the competitiveness of ships in the NOR register. This scheme covers in year approx. 10,000 seafarers. I know that there is a shared view between the shipowner’s side and the seafarers’ organisations on this issue. The consequence of lifting the operating range limitation will be that NOR ships will be registered in NIS and that Norwegian crews can be replaced by foreign crews. I remind you that this is also mostly about the local ring effects of the petroleum industry for the whole country. I am pleased that this proposal from the right-wing parties will be put to the vote today, and that today's government has no plans to change the shipping area of NIS.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e535	For the past 40 years, Norway has undergone an adventurous development as an oil and gas nation. Over all these years, the Petroleum Industry has contributed to an important part of Norway's fantastic economic development and to the financing of Norwegian welfare. Everything is in place to enable this to continue with the basis of today's petroleum message. The petroleum industry has provided jobs across almost the whole country with ring-fences and stimulates industrial development, technology development and social development that have benefited the whole country. We can today conclude that Norwegian petroleum technology is world-leading and has contributed to coastal industrial clusters that are technologically and innovatively the world's foremost. Large underwater installations are now more often replacing traditional rigs, and the operation of many fields is conducted and controlled by ship-based operating organisations. An example of this is the large gas discovery in the Worm Lange field, which is operated from land and supplies the United Kingdom with 20 pst. of their energy needs. It is by no means as some have claimed, that the petroleum industry is soon over, and that we should step down the activity the sooner, the better. For the middle of this sunshine history as a Norwegian petroleum industry, we are most likely to hear SV's mantra about as soon as possible putting down this amazing high-tech activity we have on our socket. But fortunately, this pointless and hopelessly anchored position will not be listened to either by the government partners or by most people. Also from the oil companies there are clear positive notes about the message that is being delivered today, not least in the light of the great findings that have been made in the North Sea, where many thought it was now against the great elephants, as they were called. On the right, we can get positive feedback from the oil companies on the content of the petroleum message. It is good and hopefully leads to more young people taking part in training that will provide them with challenging and exciting jobs within this industry for many years to come. Because it's important that doomsday prophecies about the climate don't get stuck, so we're ruining the recent recruitment that this industry is totally dependent on. One way to achieve the global emission targets could be to replace the power generation based on coal with gas. The process of progress is clear that there is still considerable uncertainty about the context and effects of human activity that are linked to climate change, and in particular CO2 emissions. Unfortunately, it is now that we must start to ease restrictions in order to be able to recruit enough professionals, and they must be recruited globally where they can be found. Therefore, the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right contains the necessary changes to facilitate the remedying of this problem for the petroleum industry. Of course, I'm so lucky to come from a state that has about 20,000 jobs associated with the petroleum activity. The economy with activities on land and sea is flourishing and providing meaningful jobs and good income to municipalities and communities, and SV is barely represented in municipalities and county councils. The inhabitants of More and Romesdal are also concerned about sending SV representatives to the Storting because they understand the importance of oil and gas for their state – and not only for their own well-being but also for the poorest in the world of their need for energy. We may want this to be renewable energy sources, but this is an illusion for now, and research into clean technologies and energy-efficient solutions is therefore important. Still, it's the way that 1.3 billion people don't have access to power. Double as many cook over open fire or with wood and charcoal in old areas, and the majority of these poorest are women and children. Also for their debt, it's important to be one of the world's largest and foremost energy nations. The representative Eirin Sund said she was proud, but we need to open up new territory. That's what I'm going to end up with. It is necessary to open the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, so that Northern countries also have a share in the activity and jobs represented by the petroleum sector. This is a nourishment for the future, and it should also be these states, as we move on, get a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e557	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e560	Norway has a long and prestigious petroleum history. Ever since we found the first oil little Christmas Eve in 1969, exactly 42 years ago, we have shown wisdom and long-termity in the management of our huge oil and gas resources. We haven't managed the resources by the input method. We've made choices based on knowledge and balances of interests. And we're going to keep doing that. It is important that we ensure sustainable and environmentally sound management and exploitation of resources for the future. The greatest potential for new findings is in marine areas outside North Norway. Through an expanded activity in open area and through the mapping of open and new areas, new activity and ring-effects in the north shall be facilitated. People in the north must be able to build a life in viable communities with forward-looking jobs. Northern Norway shall have opportunities to participate as competitive suppliers in the petroleum activity of the region. New findings need to maximise the value of society, and positive local and regional effects need to be facilitated. This presents governments and businesses at all levels with challenges. The economy must build up and be able to seize the opportunities offered by increased petroleum activity in the region. One of the major challenges facing North Norway is population development. The relative proportion of the population of the country is falling, and there is a significant change in the age structure of the population. The young move out, either to take education or to get a job after finishing education. A goal of the government’s petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas that can also provide the basis for profitable and attractive jobs in the mainland. We need to be able to offer attractive jobs to people with high skills. Training institutions and research environments in North Norway need to be strengthened and efforts must be directed towards better meeting the needs of the petroleum industry. Petroleum activities are a knowledge industry, and Norway currently has a high level of research and development. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that petroleum research continues to be subject to good conditions. Research in the field of increased extraction from existing fields on Norwegian soil is important in order to extract as much of the fields as possible. It is therefore appropriate to consider the establishment of a research centre in the field of increased extraction. Norwegian oil and gas activities are the safest in the world. Oil protection has been strongly built up in recent years. In order to strengthen preparedness for acute pollution and to meet future preparedness challenges, inter alia: in the north, technology and product development are important. Norway already has several companies focusing on product development in the field of oil protection, and which are successful internationally, including the United Kingdom. Nordlense in Lofoten. We have to keep building this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e575	Today, Stortinget finally manages a new petroleum message. It has been handled by seven years now. It's almost unimaginable that the government has managed to squander so long in handling the framework conditions for Norway's most important industry. The oil and gas industry employs more than 200000 people, and the income from the Norwegian base is 265 billion. kr. Norway is an energy storm within oil and gas, and it has helped make us one of the richest countries in the world. In Norway, thanks have been to the petroleum revenues for ever-new welfare reforms in which other countries have had to tighten up. Petroleum revenues have given Norwegian politicians a completely unique space for action. There have also been many good news in the last year that give rise to optimism. Important new findings have been made in 2011 both in immature areas of the Barents Sea, such as Skrugard, and in mature areas of the North Sea, such as Aldous/Avaldsnes. These findings have given rise to new optimism in Norwegian petroleum industry and have shown that it is possible to make significant findings on Norwegian continental shelf. It has also shown that Norwegian petroleum industry has many good decades ahead of it. In addition, there are still large areas the Storting has not opened for petroleum activity. It applies to the whole of the Barents North Sea, the Barents East Sea, Troms II, Northland VII and parts of Northland VI, as well as to coastal areas outside the North Coast and Skagerrak. Experience from the development of Norwegian cap and from the petroleum industry in other countries shows that new land is being allocated and that new large-scale findings are mainly due to new large-scale projects developing ground-breaking technologies. This applies both to oil companies and to the supplier industry. Opening the areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål will place considerable demands on both extraction and preparedness. Rightly, the Norwegian petroleum industry and the supplier industry will prove to be trustworthy and will start a new technology development that will be important both nationally and internationally. Petroleum industries have created jobs along the whole coast, and there are only a few municipalities that have not joined this industry. If there is to be a drive and connection to oil and gas extraction, it is important that a whole coast is put into operation. Outside the coast of Sogn and Fjordane, oil and gas have been widely found, without leading to much activity on land. The base of Florø is an exception to that. This is very unfortunate, and it's important that you do something about it in the future. It will also be crucial to agree to start extraction of oil and gas outside of the Lofoten and the Vesterøl.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e587	The oil and gas industry is our largest export industry, and Norway is the third largest exporter of oil and gas to the world market. It is a fantastic starting point when we are debating today the government's kerosene report. The message has been very well received. Many have referred to it as well-being notification, because oil and gas activities generate huge revenues for the common fund, which in turn are converted into welfare and security for the most people. According to the Central Statistical Office, the activity on the base created a total of 206 000 jobs in 2009 – fantastic figures as well. The supply industry for the oil and gas industry is Norway's second largest export industry. This industry employs around 100,000 people. Oil and gas industries are also very important for our shipyards. It turns out that the entire 84 pst. of the mass of ships produced in Norway is precisely for the petroleum industry. My home country, More and Romesdal, is in second place in the country when you look at the number of jobs in the industry per capita. Even I come from North Moravia, and the North Mortar town of Kristiansund is today a significant base for the supply industry and the service production of the oil and gas business. What they have done in Kristiansund is nothing less than a success story. Technological development has been necessary to make the extraction of petroleum resources profitable and technologically possible at all. Norwegian pedestal has acted as a laboratory for the development of tomorrow's technological solutions. Norwegian companies are world leaders in seismics, underwater production systems, drilling equipment and service vessels, to mention something. Competence developed in the oil and gas industries also proves to be of great importance for technology development in new renewable energy production. The government's ambition to strengthen petroleum research is very important. Continued emphasis on technology development is of particular importance. The evaluation of the Petroleum Programme of the Research Council will provide us with important input to the further R & D deployment. One of the other major challenges is to manage to train and recruit enough professionals. The fight for youth will be tough, and we will depend on recruiting professionals from abroad. In addition to labour from the EEA territory, the government has made regulatory adjustments to facilitate the recruitment of professionals outside the EEA. The rapid recruitment procedure, called ‘early start of work’, is a good example and implies that professionals can come to Norway and start their commitment while processing the application. Finally, oil and gas activities mean a lot to Norway. I am very pleased that the Progress Party did not get a majority to sell out rights in the Statfjord field on behalf of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e608	A new government council in the ministry has obviously changed the pace of Norwegian petroleum policy. That's good, because it's necessary. Norwegian hands are needed for technology development in an industry to help build bridges between the renewable and fossil societies in a situation where the world’s population crossed 7 billion people only a few to three weeks ago. We know that increased demand for energy, along with food demand, will be the biggest challenge of this assembly and of the other democratic assemblies in the time to come. At a time when we see that nuclear power is increasingly being phased out as a result of the Fukushima accident, at a time when the Middle East is more or less in fire and creating uncertainty, and with an additional effect of the financial crisis, the nation of Norway must also know its time of responsibility and take it over. We have resources like almost no other. We've had a successful development of Norwegian oil history, which is a pattern for everyone else. And as many people have been in, it's been given the character of this message, which in every way has the character "consisted" and so on. There is, of course, disagreement in the political landscape. It's like that when you have the debate going on today, that of course some parties, and others don't, will have developments moving northwards, which also includes the region of Lofoten and the Westphalia. Just so that's said; I just want to, with reference to SV's comments today, show that the population of the new large, prospective regions is also concerned about what kind of jobs they're going to be able to offer tomorrow's boys and girls. That is perhaps why the Right has had such enormous progress and dominates the rapporteur's offices in the regions we are talking about, South Troms and North Nordland. It's positive. The authorities also have a responsibility to contribute to bud shooting, and that this industry may have a presence, like several others, among others. The representative of Bendiks H. Arnesen has been present. Government functions must also be moved northwards. It must not be that today's structure, today's institutions, refuses to shoot the bud as the activity moves northwards. This concerns Statoil, in the case of other companies, and in the case of Petroleum Supervision — just to give a few examples. It cannot be expected that the voters – the population – will completely end up with the necessary developments that must take place if existing regions and companies are only to pull the ladder up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e625	We have often heard that the oil industry is going down in the sunset. This message is being wagered and shows a different direction. Here, it focuses on what's going on for it to be an industry for the future. The resources we take up from the sea are the property of Norwegian people and will benefit the entire community. Clear management and control are therefore important to ensure that the management of resources achieves these objectives. So far we must be able to say that the administration has been a success. The goal of a qualitatively better society well describes some of the results of the petroleum activity. This is our largest industry measured in value creation, state income and export value. Income has contributed greatly to the building of today’s welfare society. If the industry is to have a future, we must facilitate a profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective. That is why this communication has a clear generation perspective when reference is made to 30 years in advance. The cost level is significantly higher, and there are several mature areas, as the situation is. This challenges technology and a steady development in this area. This increases the need for easier licensing to be extended, as the notification takes into account. It is important to exploit existing fields and to enter new waters, to be able to build up pilots, which can secure and enable demanding development, as is also foreseen in the notification. Reference is made to the assessment of the establishment of a research centre in the field of increased extraction based on open competition. Oil production has been reduced, while gas production has increased recently. Action is now being taken to ensure equal access for the infrastructure of new and old fields for their gas transport needs. In More and Romesdal, Norway’s largest industrial project is now being developed – well over 100 billion. kr it will cost you completed. Nyhamna at Aukra now seems to be a gas node for the Norwegian Sea, which I am very pleased with. Here the north gas shall be taken without stopping already established infrastructure. At the same time, Shell is testing the pilot who can become a future underwater compression on the Worm Lange. When something so difficult is going to be expanded, we always ask, what do you get back locally for this? The answer is that Norwegian players stand strongly in competition, because they are effective and every day forced to think technology, and press it. Shell is clear that they are demanding contracts that are more in the local favor. One example is Reinertsen from Trondheim, who has a contract of 1 billion. kr. However, several smaller contracts have also been signed with local actors, which is important to us. Nearly 800 new jobs will contribute to this. The communication provides a good basis for the future, but if the industry is to have goodwill among the people, then focusing on the environment, health, environment and safety, local contracts and employment must also be an important part of the cake in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e646	More than one message is called for a longer message. In the public vocabulary, I would say that there have been in particular two long-term messages. There are also important messages: the Petroleum Communication, which we are discussing today, and the Communication that is still just called for, namely the Climate Communication. The one we are discussing today is about many jobs and is important for the Norwegian economy. For my own part of the country, South Africa, it is also extremely important because we have a large supplier industry – a huge technology development takes place in a region that delivers to the whole world and delivers world-class. They're also talking about that they're part of the energy sector, and I'm going with a certainty that they will also deliver in the next phase, in the phase where it might not be about delivering to oil platforms, but maybe rather to windmills or other things that are going to deliver green energy. The second message, the climate communication, is the follow-up to the climate agreement. There are several who have said that are closely related to the poverty challenge. It is closely linked to the poverty challenge because it is the poorest affected by climate change. It is not Norwegian oil or petroleum to be supplied to the poor, because only the rich Western countries are gaining Norwegian power. But the poorest need green energy. The whole world will depend on more energy, and we also need more oil and gas for a long time to come. Therefore, the discussion has to be about how to produce it in the most environmentally friendly way possible, and how Norway can do it in its own way. I am proud of a sector that is more environmentally friendly than others. I'm proud of the local industry, which makes it certain that they will also extract for the next stage, the green phase. I am proud of politicians who have to say no, because when I hear the various discussions, it is always – at least for me – so that the next field is absolutely necessary in order to have a production that makes it a viable industry. But history has shown us that the politicians who dare to say no to the most vulnerable areas have been right. That's why it's important that we can do it in the future. In the newspaper on 6 April last year, the representative Serigstad Valen raised some important questions. He wrote in an article: «Perhaps it is time to look ahead and discuss the phase-out of oil extraction. When are we going to be independent of oil? How is that going to happen? What new jobs should we create?’ He announced that there would be answers in this message. The good questions we are not discussing today. That is why I am particularly concerned when the notification alerts increased emissions, and that is why this message has to be seen in the context of the climate objectives. There can be no doubt that the climate communication can correct both objectives, technology, measures and pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e662	40 years ago, Norway was a small country on the outskirts of Europe, and the people here had basically done well. Nevertheless, there has been a fantastic development of the Norwegian welfare society in the 40 years we have had the petroleum activity. Today, Norway stands out as a rich country in Europe and that country – according to the UN – in which it is best to live. Much of our well-being must be attributed to petroleum activity up through these years and not just to the fact that oil and gas were found off our coast. Even more important, we have managed resources wisely, which have been for the benefit of the whole community. ‘An industry for the future’ is a very good title of the petroleum message, but if I could choose, I would rather call it the ‘welfare message’, because it’s exactly what this message so well mentions, simply how we can make the best use of our natural resources for us and for those who come after us, so that several of us can participate in and further develop the welfare society we today are so proud of. One of the success criteria for the Norwegian petroleum industry, and for the whole of our maritime industry, for that matter, is that we are strong in the whole value chain. The whole country is involved in this, with more than 200,000 related to industry. Only in Oslo and Akershus there are 12,000 working in the industry. In my home country, Hordaland, we assume that about 20,000 have their daily work, with world-class competence, associated with exploration, search, manufacturing, operation and maintenance, and not least co-research, development and education. We're dealing with an industry that's global. In order to be world-leading as a complete petroleum nation in the future, it is very important that we secure the whole value chain, with contract forms that promote Norwegian industrial growth, and with increased investment in education at all stages. Continuous technological development is essential, including: to ensure an increase in extraction from Norwegian oil and gas fields. I'm glad the government is considering establishing a research center in this field. The Centre for Integrated Petroleum Research (CIPR) in Bergen has developed a top-notch competence since its launch ten years ago, which, together with other research institutes – such as IRIS in Stavanger – must form the backbone of such a venture. This ensuring extra extraction from the fields that have been opened is very important. It's kind of like a cola bottle. When you open it, you should not have it standing long before the coke becomes tam and dwash. Those who have a lot of coke in stock will also open a new bottle. That's why we need pressure support and CO2 to get wet in the coke, and then we have to drain most of the stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e686	The President thanked that Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e689	I was a little inspired by the post of the representative Serigstad Valen to redraw me. Serigstad Valen used much of the time in his speech to stress the importance of a restrictive approach to opening up new areas of exploration, oil and gas activity. In my post, I expressed great joy at – and support for – the production objectives set by the government in the notification. But then I get a little insecure when I hear the article from the representative Serigstad Valen, because I assume that SV is also behind the message. But the question is how to achieve the production targets, if you are going to add to such a restrictive line as the Serigstad Valen suggests. Then there are several people who have mentioned the scenario in the north, and it's big and optimistic, and many of them are concerned about the ringing effects. I think the best example of ring effects is what has happened in the Hammerfest area, around Snow White and around the expansion of Goliath. This example shows what getting activity in their territory means for the population, for businesses and for relocation. Every time I come to Hammerfest, something new has happened. It's a city that sucks of activity and optimism. From the Right, we want larger parts of the northern part of the country to experience it as well. I would like to say that, among other things. cooperation on preparedness which the Goliath licence has now begun with the coastal fishing fleet is an example in a positive way of exploiting other industries as well as their competence, inter alia. within such an important area as preparedness. There are many exciting things happening in Tromsø. Recently, Aker Solutions announced that they set up an office there and have the aim of recruiting 400 engineers – that’s great! Recently, several centres of excellence and universities have also joined forces to propose to the government the establishment of this Arctic research centre in Tromsø, and the University of Tromsø is thought to be a coordinator for this. So there's a lot of exciting happening in this part of the country. The scenario is big. From the Right, we want to keep the pressure up so that we can really take advantage of the possibilities that lie in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e700	There are a lot of perspectives and relationships you could take up in a debate like this. I have followed it with interest, both here in the hall and from the office, but I will concentrate on and limit myself to one relationship. It is about how and to what extent this part of Norwegian business now contributes to the Norwegian economy — at least parts of it — being quite different from the examples we see from many other countries. I read in the message that the government estimates that there are only six municipalities that do not have jobs directly related to the petroleum business. It says something about how important this industry is. There are a number of representatives who have pointed out the picture many have, that this is a Western phenomenon – that it is in Hordaland, in Rogaland and on the Moravian coast it is the largest activity. Yes, of course it is. But there are a lot of people who have picked out their own jurisdiction and their own territory, so I'm not going to be anything worse. In my constituency, we have even defined the cluster from Kongsberg to Oslo and down towards Horten with the beautiful name Subsea Valley – and that is the inland district of Buskerud we are talking about mainly. There may be some people who think it's a bit pretentious, or who can even flirt a little bit of this, but these are environments world-leading on underwater installations that have their background in and have shot speed due to long industrial traditions, strong real science skills, technology skills and a strong engineering environment. So these are the reasons why many of the companies that are established in the part of the country I belong to are world leaders in this very special segment. It's great, it's amazing, it's to be proud of. So finally, a brief comment on what we're now facing. There is no doubt that this part of the Norwegian economy is in a different constitution than parts of another type of export-oriented industry. It makes some people say – I hear it quite often – that we have a very profitable petroleum sector, petroleum industry, and supplier industry, creating problems for other types of mainland industry, and yes, that's right. We're probably moving towards a two-track solution for the Norwegian economy, one very profitable part and one part that has bigger problems, in other industries. But I don't want to be aware that it should be a problem for the nation. We have to solve this, but we have to solve it in a way that allows the part that, after all, creates adventurous revenues for the community, creates a number of new creations, jobs and high profitability, to develop in the future and to continue to contribute to the strong financing of the Norwegian welfare model, is under the Community's control and, as the Communication states, is «a industry for the future».
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e711	To be a party that does not seem to have any impact on the policy, I think that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are taking a lot of time to talk about SV. I suspect that this is because, to the greatest extent, we are putting our influence on politics, and especially in the areas that irritate the Right and the Advance Party, and that we are, for example, in the right and the right. does not open all areas which the Right and Advance Party may wish, across professional advice and environmental considerations. I think the representative, Ropstad, clothes to quote me. It gives his article good contents. And that's what he's dealing with, which we're discussing today, and which we should also discuss in the future. The fact that the oil sector is to be closed overnight means that it is only the strawmen who construct the Right and the Advance Party who believe. But the time is coming when we have to produce other things is clear, and most importantly: on the way there, the emissions from the sector have to go down. One can do as the Progress Party and lean back and just say that it must be, there is no way to do this, but I believe that the State Council Borten Moe was exemplaryly clear, both in terms of the fact that the objective of the climate agreement of two thirds of the domestic cut is firm, and that an important action will be electrification in the future. It is an advantage in these debates, especially because energy policy is difficult and complicated, to deal with facts. First of all, when it comes to polls: there is the representative Skumsvoll inaccuracies. It is such that there is a stable majority against oil drilling in Lofoten and the Western Sea in the northern regions. It has also recently turned the A-press on – 49 pst. The population is opposite, 37 pst. is for. But if the representative Skumsvoll has newer and better sources, he can present them. When the representative Grimstad says it's an illusion that renewable energy is going to give the world poor electricity, it's not an illusion at all. On the contrary, the International Energy Agency argues that 70 pst. of the energy that will give electricity to all the people of the world will be renewable, and a little over a third will be fossil. Finally – one more fact before I draw another post, but this is a little important: it is a note from the Progress Party where the party misinterprets both the report they refer to in relation to anthropogenic climate change and the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. They use a report from the University of Oregon as a witness to the truth that there is disagreement about the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. That's wrong. This report shall provide the basis for the next report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the conclusion in the report to which the representative Amundsen refers, both today and in the state budget debate, is well within the framework of what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said is the possible consequences of anthropogenic climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e726	At a time when other countries face challenges in maintaining adequate value creation, Norway and the South are different countries. Cooperation between politicians and trade unions locally and centrally, industrialists and the state helped many businesses to avoid closures and redundancies in Agder. The South has proud traditions related to activities at sea, which have continued in land-based industrial activities, in the shipbuilding, process and oil and gas supply industries, such as the NODE and Eyde clusters that recruit engineers and skilled workers at a high pace. On December 14th, I received the following happy message from Kai Rune Heggland, Plant Manager at Alcoa, Lista: «Today at 09.08, I started the Carbotermic reactor in a new and unique test station and research center here at the aluminium mill on the Lista, exactly 100 years after Roald Ammundsen reached the South Pole as the first human being on Earth and a Norman! This has once again shown that there is a sum of competence and resources in the district and in Agder that can really put process industry on the world map and show way forward for solutions that have a distinct future.» I am very pleased with the petroleum message and the focus it has on the already established oil fields, among others. in the North Sea, and that the notification relates to the ring-fenced effects of the oil-based industry on civil society and other terrestrial activities. In Agder goes very well, but the county is contrasted. I refer to an article in today's fatherland friend, who researches Helge Røed links disability to the lack of a job market: disability is not about laxity, but about lack of access to work, and the Lister region fights for growth and development. Vest-Agder Arbeiderparti and I are not satisfied that the region is not mentioned in the notification. The Farsund and Lister areas want to be an important region in order to take a greater part in the ringing effects of oil-based industries on land. The area has declined in many industrial workplaces, and the West-Agder Workers' Party will work hard to ensure that the Lundewagen in Farsund can once again be the basis for future logistics operations related to activities in the Ecofisc field. It is important for development throughout the region and meets the objective of facilitating the profitable production of oil and gas, which can provide the basis for profitable and attractive jobs in the mainland. I'm going to end up with this goal. It will be an important contribution to future employment and living conditions growth in the region. I therefore look forward to the Lister region becoming the arena of employment, ring-fence and oil supply in the further cooperation to realise the content of the petroleum notification and the practical management of our common resource. The country of listing is also the country of possibility for oil-based activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e740	This is a good oil message. I had not believed that with the background of all the debates we have had until this oil communication was presented. But when it first came, the government should be commended for it. This government has turned into very many of the positions that some people have tried to work for in the government, and that's good. They've settled on a line that the Progress Party is very pleased with. We must remember that the previous oil and energy minister felt that spillage messages were just paperwork and unnecessary bureaucracy. Now we see that they boast of the oil message they have provided. This shows that they've had the wrong strategy before. Oil and gas industries are very important to our country, but if the red-greens had been controlled in the 1970s, that industry would probably not have been the way we see it today. Now we see the outlines of being able to put good policies back. Before the oil notification was submitted, there were many conflicting positions in the government. This was supposed to be a resolution message, it came from SV. One thought TFO was undemocratic, one was supposed to steer young people away from petroleum-related education, and one had to invest less in research. All of this has been lost by SV, and I am very happy about that. I am also pleased that the Swedish Championships were awarded in the 2006 management plan, and the government has transformed it into the management plan that was presented and dealt with earlier this year. I am sure that in the case of the Lofoten case, the Advance Party will also win that case as soon as it becomes a government change. It's a little special to hear this debate, when some people claim that this is straightforward scouring also in the government. There is no doubt that last year SV said that gas was not good for climate policy, while today’s oil and energy minister says that Norwegian gas helps the EU with climate objectives. That's very good. I agree with today's Minister of Energy. It is also very good that today's Minister of Energy does not follow up on the policy he was elected to in the field of party programmes, as was the policy pursued by the Centre Party in opposition. In 2002, the SV and the Centre said that the best climate policy was resource saving for oil resources. It's not the root of the oil spill, and I'm glad. It is also worth noting that the SV in this debate believes that CO2 cleaning is good, because then a few CO2 injections and thus increased oil extraction can, while they had the very opposite position when discussing the possibility of a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning on Melkøya in the debate in the Stortinget in 2002. So it's very good in the right direction. The Progress Party sees that when we hold a debate, we will finally win, even though I believe that there are many in the Right and in the Labour Party who feel that it is also their position that gets through. The nice thing about this debate is that we have a real big deal behind us now for the first time. The SV and the Senterpartiet have always been opposed to the oil policy that has been pursued in Stortinget. Now they're also inside, and that makes it a much safer drive now. So to climate policy: it is Snorre Serigstad Valen who reads the comment from the Progress Party as an argument against CO2 being a problem. This is not what is meant by the Progress Party. We meant to show that there is a difference in view of the extent of climate change, and not whether CO2 matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e773	I am pleased to note that the Progress Party is noticing itself in this debate by spending the most time on the word ‘climate’ and talking about climate issues. There's also a new development in this hall, even though the angle isn't always such that we in the Center Party can stand behind us. When I took the word now, it was to comment on some things that I wasn't going to mention in my main post. I was about to give praise to the government and the government as the warning lamp – had I almost said – began to shine because the time was up. It's about local ringing. It is important for us in the Center Party to point out that this message is asking for clear requirements for companies operating on the base, because through development and operation plans, they must show both the front and the rear the ringing effects that the offshore activity gives to the communities. It is an indication of the government's objective that petroleum activity is to provide ring-effects on land. Such a goal also demands the business community, i.e. the business community locally must demonstrate and ensure that one has the necessary qualifications for competence and capacity. Industry along the coast has repeatedly shown that one has, at most, and often it is supply design and prequalification that is the key for local enterprises to participate in this development. It is important that both companies and regulators facilitate this, so that local companies can participate in the competition. Then they must be able to compete on a commercial basis. Oil Protection has been a topic here, and it's something that we in the Center Party are also concerned about. It's about the security of those who live and feed along our coast. I shall not repeat all that has been said, just underline the representative Skumsvoll's point, about the tug-boat gear, which is a very important and perhaps a decisive moment in the event of an accident. The fact that we are increasingly getting petroleum industry in areas with tougher climates makes this even more important. Finally, it is important to point out that the supplier industry is a history of sunshine. He's renewable. While the other resources are limited, the knowledge built up in this industry is renewable, and it will be able to play an important role in the transition from the fossil to the renewable energy community and thus mean a great deal to us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e788	There are many factors that could have been considered when commenting on such a comprehensive communication in such a comprehensive area. I would like to focus on some of the premises for the reasoning that is being expressed, especially with regard to climate, which deserve more attention. Governments say in reply that he and the government are at the conclusion of the climate agreement and the objectives of the national cut. It seems that he then takes a considerable distance from his State Secretary who has problematised whether or not to care about the national targets. The problem is that the consequences are exactly the same when a message is submitted in such an important area – eight years before these objectives are to be met – without showing what you intend to do. I would like to comment briefly on some of the elements that show why it is wrong to use the allowance system as an argument against national measures. It's actually wrong, and it's also wrong based on the economic theory on which the allowance systems are based. A well-functioning allowance system requires that everyone is included in order to get the right price. Since the European quota system does not have many of our competitors outside Europe, it will never be possible to turn the instruments up, or the ceiling low enough, to make the price right. Similarly, a well-functioning allowance system assumes that the emission ceiling is the final emission target. As long as you operate for five years, the system will never function properly. So if we don't take that into account, we can make decisions today that make us create a higher threshold for ourselves when we're going to thank new quota systems in new periods in the future. Last but not least, it was actually the way that the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol committed each country to do something with its own emissions. Yes, the Council of State is right that we produce very cleanly compared to very many other countries in the world. The challenge is that almost all other oil producing countries say the same thing. There's a lot of people who produce a lot more dirty than us. There are many more dirty energy sources than what we produce, and that's why we're not going to stop, there's someone else. The reasoning isn't completely connected. The Christian People's Party does not advocate radical changes in the rate of extraction or the bet on the pedestal. The point is that the debate needs to be much more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e803	The right has impatiently waited for the kerosene message. This industry is more important than any other industry in the development of Norway. As important as the oil and gas industries, the large supply industry that has grown up in the cold water of this industry represents a significant export value. The importance of industry for growth and well-being for new generations is undisputable. This means that we have to keep progress in the work of impact assessment and exploration in new, promising areas, but it has to be subject to conditions that make us not go on chords with health, environment and safety. The experience of four decades of exploration and production activities in Norwegian sea areas has shown that the industry has been able to adapt to ever-new health, safety and environmental requirements. The success stories of the Norwegian supplier industry are many, and the expertise environments in Norway hold key competences at the global summit. This will allow us to further develop the industry, extract more of the resources already identified and detect even more undiscovered resources. At the same time, we experience new advances that can make the petroleum industry more environmentally friendly. Our ability to prevent and combat oil spills is extremely important when the business is getting closer to land and moving further north. In the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, we know that Norwegian and Norwegian expertise and equipment proved very effective and world-leading in their field. The right will use the entire Norwegian base and believes that the time has come to discover whether there are viable resources outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Troms II. However, from the Right-wing side, we would stress that if findings are made, there is a need to review how these resources can be recovered to the best of the Community in an environmentally sound manner. This Communication has been entitled ‘An industry for the future — the petroleum industry’ and must result in major ring-effects also in the north. From a north-eastern perspective, the co-location of new operating organisations with the existing operating environment for Norne at the Statoils Harstad office will be an important step towards strengthening the oil environment in North Norway. At the same time, the oil environments of the region also need to be added to purchasing decisions in order to bring about greater proximity to the Nordic industry, which is positioned to become suppliers, and it is necessary to facilitate greater ring-effects in this way. And then the state has to set a good example by creating ring-effects, by strengthening the Oil Directorate and contributing to the presence of the Petroleum Authority in Harstad, where the Oil Directorate has a department today. It is well known that North Norway loses many of its talented young people because the exciting jobs are preferably available elsewhere. Stepping up oil and gas activities in the north, both at sea and on land, will be one important contribution to reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e824	Now the debate is not over, so I'm not going to assume the role of concluding with anything, but I think there has been a good debate that has shown that there is a broad consensus on the communication. But there are a few things that I want to comment on. Initially in the debate, a point was made that the government parties had short comments in the communication and that it would indicate some kind of internal disagreement between the government parties. Then I think it is important just to point out and establish that the policy contained in the Communication is the policy behind the Red-Green parties in the Stortinget. We very much agree with the government in the message and feel that we are re-inventing our policy. When a message is made, it is also not unnatural that it is made in close cooperation with the red-green parties on the Stortinget, which means that we have a red-green government. So it's not an internal disagreement, but it's a collection of politics. In the debate, several speakers have mentioned, among others: in my own post, it is good that different environments in the north have gone together to have a formation about a center of petroleum activity in arctic strokes. The representative of Rommetveit also refers to environments in Bergen that are strong in increasing extraction. I think it might be a follow-up that you do what you've done to the north, that good forces go together and show that there's a wish for this – maybe not where, but that you have the knowledge there, to say it like that. I'm so afraid that we're making this into a circuit championship, because I want to say that it's a national championship, and beyond that, even an international championship, so that we can at least keep those thoughts in mind at the same time. Then I just have to comment on what's going on with the Lofoten and the Vesterål. The Right Party and the Advance Party have here today tried to peck both SV and others, or the Workers' Party for that matter, so that one has not gone far enough. But no one went to the elections in 2009, who didn't know what SV and the Center Party thought about the Lofoten and the Vestral. I think the Council of State answers very well when he points out that what you should think about Lofoten and the West Pole after 2013, also depends on what the various parties do in their programme debates. But I can't manage to point out that in the opposition there is also no touching consensus about the Lofoten and the West Pole. As I have at least perceived it, the Right Party and the Advance Party will open up anyway, while the Christian People's Party and the Left do not want it. So when they try to make it that the opposition wants something that they don't think we're doing, I just want to point out that that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e835	I notice that the representative, Solvik-Olsen, said something like that when we get a government change, we should also open the Lofoten and the Vesterål. I expect that the Christian People's Party and the Left will also mark the chosen one from the representative Solvik-Olsen. So there's been a lot of talk about gas here today. I think it is useful to remember that there is a great difference between gas replacing coal in the EU and gas replacing water power in Norway. However, if the EU succeeds in investing in climate action, there will be a limited period of high gas turnover in Europe – let us say that by 2050 there will be less need for gas in Europe. That's why it's very important that we use the strength we have today, with our oil resources and our technological resources linked to oil, to develop a more diverse business life. As a member of the Business Committee, I used my main contribution in the budget debate to point out that we are about to have a two-part business in Norway. We have the oil-related activity that's flourishing. In that sector, there is a problem in getting access to competent people. You import engineers and technologists from all over the world, pushing up the payroll level. Then we have the rest of the industry and part of the land-based activity as a burden on the cost level. There is no doubt that oil activity means more to the level of costs in Norway than the rule of action and the level of taxation combined. That's why it's true that we're on guard against getting a one-sided business life, so that after the oil age we're left with a bad business life. One of the concrete things we can do is use today's technology to develop new industries within an area where today's technology is relevant. One concrete example of what we can do is bet heavily on electrification of the base. If a bet is heavy on electrification of the base, we use today's offshore competence, while at the same time we facilitate the use of a "north-sea grid" for sea wind. Then we build bridges to the renewable society with today's technology. If we don't start with it today, we're going to have a deindustrialized Norway as the oil age approaches Hell. It will come sooner or later – whether it is in 2050 or 2060. But I, who's been working in the industry for 40 years, know that it's not long.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e844	I could have signed on much of what the representative Alf Egil Holmelid said in the post before me, for, like Snorre Serigstad Valen, he draws up some perspectives that I think are useful to have in this debate. The representative, Serigstad Valen, pointed out that this matter, this communication and this debate today must be seen in the context of the climate objectives. I fully agree with that. At the same time, the representative Serigstad Valen said that on the way to the society – and also the representative Holmelid spent time on it, at least in the last part – which will be in the aftermath of the oil extraction, when it goes down and perhaps ends, the emissions have to go down. At the same time, I have to say that it makes me ask questions about whether SV is a kind of seminar party, where you go and talk about what's important to them, but when they adopt the policy, there are other leads being laid. For why does the SV Christian People's Party not support the setting, where we write about how important it is with petroleum-free zones in the Lofoten and the Vestral? In connection with this, I can say to the representative Holmelid that when there is a government change, we will ensure that the Lofoten and the West Pole become petroleum-free areas. How can the government, with the SV, go in order to increase emissions by 23 p.m., according to the Oil Directorate – that is about 3 million tonnes – when we say in the climate agreement that this sector should cut emissions by between 3 million and 5 million tonnes? How can SV go in to expand the TFO scheme? When it was adopted, it was different from what you see today. Since 2003, 324 extraction permits have been granted through the TFO scheme – one third of the permits granted have thus been granted through the TFO. It was supposed to be limited, small, existing and mature areas where permits were to be granted, but now it is seen to have become much more extensive, and the government is going in to expand it more. This can actually be aligned with the ordinary concession rounds. This is the wrong way to go. At least it should ring a bell when the Advance Party praises the message as strongly as they do. Then I would like to repeat the question: how can this be presented in one way in the columns in the newspaper or in seminars, and then adopt another policy in the Stortinget. Politics is adopted in Stortinget, not in Dagbladet's column. That's why I have to say that I'm worried about the climate announcement coming, because I have a feeling that the government is dealing with the climate deal in the same way that Canada is dealing with the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e853	It's probably approaching the end of the debate. I want to thank the Stortinget for what I experience is a good debate, where there has been a large collection of important questions. It makes me think the last post comes in a bit of a strange light. It is not that the Christian People's Party has a fundamentally different approach to Norwegian oil and gas policy than that of the government, although it can be very quickly perceived when you heard the last speaker. You agree with 99,5 pst, and then you have to discuss the little garnity at the top, but that it deserves as big a word as this one earned, I don't agree. Then I can't wait to make any comments to the representative of Solvik-Olsen, who came in here instead. The first thing he said was that we should all be happy that it wasn't the red-green ones that crashed in the 1970s. The fact is, we were the ones who crashed in the 1970s. If the Workers' Party is not in government, then the Center Party is in government. The only party not in government was the Progress Party. The Progress Party and Hagen fought a great battle in the 1970s to sell non-Norwegian petroleum deposits. The fact is that if Hagen and the Progress Party had succeeded in its policy in the 1970s, the foundations of the Norwegian welfare state and of Norwegian industry would be completely different today from what it appears. It could have been nice if Solvik-Olsen had taken a degree of self-criticism on it. Then there is also the fact that resource saving has always been part of the Norwegian oil and gas debate. I think it's also going to be in the future. We have had our own tempo selection that has assessed this in historical times. It has always been a step forward, in line with both what has been the capacity of the economy, what has been found, and what has been the technology available to exploit the resources. It is a tradition I very strongly believe must continue, and by that I very much hope that the disagreement is no greater than the Solvik-Olsen trying to make it as. So there was a completely different situation at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s. We are approaching a peak in oil production – it has fallen from about 3 million barrels in 2002–2003 to less than 2 million barrels today. It is clear that it faces entirely different challenges. The oil price is, as you know, quite different today than it was at the time. That means that what was right in 2000, doesn't necessarily have to be right today. The centre party has a long tradition of expressing Norwegian oil and gas policy. We have done that in this government, Marit Arnstad has done that, Eivind Reiten has done that, Reidar Due has done that, and the government has done that. It's going to continue the Center Party in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e864	The representative of the centre party stated that the Progress Party spent considerable time speaking on the climate issue. I have to say that I don't know myself completely again in that description. I understand that the center party is not as busy talking about it. Isn't it so that already in 1989 the Center Party had a goal of halving out? With such a goal, I understand that the Center Party does not want to talk about the climate issue. So to state councillor Borten Moe, who says that in the 1970s the Progress Party would sell much of the petroleum supplies. With a taxing of 78 pst. Of what was sold, there's the difference here one might have lost. It's not like you're getting the impression that you've sold out all your oil assets. So to the Socialist Left Party, which has today received the idea of a ‘seminar party’. One can get the impression as long as one records that SV in chronicles in the newspaper and other places comes with posts where they prefect a completely different policy from the one they are part of. When the representative Alf Egil Holmelid describes a two-part business, he describes a business that does it very well, and a business that doesn't do it fully as well, and then he's actually busy putting down the most profitable. There's so much that you shouldn't believe it! But I'm glad that I can tell sunshine stories from the west coast and a small community like Herøy municipality in Fosnavågen, where one in a small municipality with 4,000 to 5,000 inhabitants in the center actually has eight shipping teams that provide jobs to people across the country – many thousands of jobs in these eight fleets. We had not done that with SV's policy. So in the end, the representative Serigstad Valen says that government councillor Borten Moe is very clear in his rhetoric for government. Is there SV's support for oil sand development he's thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e877	I think the Advance Party has been very shy with the rose of many red-green politicians here today, and I therefore do not understand the sour criticism we get back. In the past, the Council of State has been very concerned that we should have a realistic debate when discussing energy and environmental issues. Yes, then one should also be realistic about what is the problem in its own government policy, because it is not that the political debate has arisen today; we have six to seven years of experience with what red-green politicians say in the media. When one claims that there is a red-green agreement of 99,5 pst. of the government's oil and energy policy, is so used to wearing crackling stature that one has stopped counting all those who join out of the parties in protest against what one is doing. I note that SV has had a completely different approach, but that they now support the view of the bulk of the population that oil and gas industries are important to Norway in the future as well, and that we need to extract more oil and gas, get more new fields and more research, – more people who are studying this. That's great. Then I won't discuss it that much more. In the 1970s, there are some people here who have some dogmas that they're trying to push on others, for example. the fact that the Progress Party would sell away, almost give away, all the oil resources. What is the matter, is that when the Statfjord field was adopted in 1976, Carl I. Hagen said that in a country with a large government debt, the state should take the risk by financing Statoil, or rather let foreign companies take the cost of expanding the field. We still reserved the right to shares and still the right to tax this in the usual way. So there's the point: it was this one field, and Carl I. Hagen has said several times in retrospect that he is happy that he was voted down on this point. I don't understand how many times we're going to apologize for a position we had in 1976 that we agreed was wrong, but that didn't mean you gave away all the resources. You gave away any dividends on this one project. That's the yield for Statoil on the Statfjord field we might have lost. So the question is how we had invested the capital that we had obtained by selling out the holding that Statoil intended to have, and that they have. On the other hand, one could just as well turn this argument around and ask: how sensible would it be if the Workers' Party had got a majority and implemented that one would give away oil resources to exchange Volvo shares? Would it have been so much more reasonable? It also has to include the Workers' Party in this thing. Then to the representative Torve and the representative Arnesen: if you listen to it yet, come up and document their claims instead of just getting out of the pulpit – it was certainly unparliamentary, sorry, President. Climate agreement: It is a misunderstanding that it is an independent goal that two thirds should be cut in Norway. It's not the content of the climate agreement. The climate agreement says we think we can cut between 15 and 17 million tonnes in Norway. In that case, two thirds of the cuts will be made in Norway. But if the assumptions of 15 to 17 billion tonnes don't hit, there's no commitment to two thirds. That is what Mr. Moe knows when he says that he supports the agreement as it is today, because it is not a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e894	The President would point out that the representative is quite right in his characteristic of the term he used. Otherwise, the posts must be directed through the President to the representatives you wish to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e897	The Christian People's Party wants to bet on increasing the extraction of oil from existing fields. We want to ensure good and responsible management of the resources that have already been found, and we want to further focus on exploration and extraction in new fields, especially in the north, with the exception of particularly vulnerable and valuable areas. The Christian People's Party is critical of the government's extension of the TFO system, and we also feel that the government in the petroleum notification is trying to avoid the commitments that this sector has with regard to the climate notification submitted in the previous period. I think maybe State Council Ola Borten Moe is letting the cats out of the bag when he says that the Christian People's Party and the Hall otherwise agree on 99,5 pst. of the notification. That climate has a 0.5 pst. dimension in the Council of State's line of reasoning, I think it is alarming. For the Christian People's Party, the climate is more important than 0.5 pst. relative to the kerosene message, and I hope to be respected for that. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party that existing petroleum installations on Norwegian base should be electrified with emission-free power from countries where it is cost-effective to do so. We also believe that all new developments should be based mainly on electricity. It assumes that we have new renewable energy, and with last Monday in memory, when we adopted green certificates and also the renewable directive in Stortinget, it facilitates increased renewable energy production in Norway. This Christian People's Party wants to use, among other things, electrification of the base. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposals that are on the table today. In this debate we have talked about the fact that the oil and gas sector and our resources will benefit the entire population. This fully supports the Christian People's Party. We are also concerned that there must be local ring effects. That's why the Christian People's Party voted against a weakening of the petroleum law that we were dealing with today, because we're afraid that the change that was made in the petroleum law implies a deterioration in local ring effects, of which the Christian People's Party is concerned. We also know that the supplier industry is very good in the world scale. We have to take care of this, we have to facilitate it. We know it's doing a lot of good work around the world. So a little visit to the representative Oskar J. Grimstad, who said something like you shouldn't let the doomsday prophecies get stuck. This is a claim that the Christian People's Party is taking a great distance from, considering the climate discussion that was up then.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e913	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e916	It was an interesting tyrant from the representative of Ropstad, considering that the Christian People's Party joins the same kerosene message. With regard to the challenge around the Lofoten and the Vesterål, it is well just to say that SV is more concerned with winning the case, as we have done, than to write remarks about it afterwards in a seminar with the Christian People's Party. In the case of TFO, there's an interesting criticism. One of the things I think is very happy with the kerosene message is that we underline the need for transparency and predictability and introduce open consultation to the TFO. Oil policy is much more transparent and accessible now than when the Christian People's Party was responsible for the sector. At that time, one of the environmental issues of the movement was to know at all what was going on in the allocation rounds. First, SV, together with the red-green government, introduced open consultation before granting ordinary concessions, now we're also doing it in mature areas. That's good for the debate, that's good for the environment, and that's something the Christian People's Party never prioritised itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e923	There's been a lot of bad thinking, not to say quote cheating here in the hall today, and I'm sorry. The representative Grimstad claimed that I wanted to wind up the supplier industry. Correctly, I speak without a script, but I think he will look for a long time in the printing from my post if he will find that I wanted to wind up the supplier industry. Rather, I said that the living industry was very valuable to Norway, because there is such a high level of competence that the supplier industry can be used to build new industries that could bridge the renewables. So to keep up with such rhetoric to try to push people into a sense that they can post afterwards, this hall isn't worth it. So there are several people here today who have mentioned that SV has previously said that we should have a exit message instead of a petroleum message. I would like them to document where we have said that. When it comes to the quotations that we've drawn from the Progress Party's history, I'm not going to go back to Statfjord, but it's said that one has sorry Statfjord, it was supposed to be taxed, and it was just foreign ownership. In 2004, however, the Progress Party proposed dramatic fiscal burdens for the oil sector and for the North Sea company, and it is not so far back that it can only germinate. Then I want to put in a small line to the representative, who accepts that the oil message that SV is behind gets commended by the Progress Party. Yes, I thought Ropstad would be happy to cooperate with the Progress Party in Stortinget, in the same way that they really agree with the Progress Party in Kristiansand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e934	Siri A. Meling has spoken twice in the past and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e937	I want to say that it is important to plan in the long term. But when we're discussing industry after the oil age, when we're talking about oil age at the same time in a generation perspective, it's like, when I was saying, thinking about what we're going to live on after the oil, we're talking about many, many decades ahead of time, just so that's said. But I asked for the word because I want to express my satisfaction at the coherence between the opposition parties on the Stortinget regarding the notification of the petroleum. We are together with the other opposition parties in most of the proposals that are being promoted. Although we largely agree with the kerosene message that the government has provided, we want more and more concrete measures to achieve the development we want, and I am pleased that the opposition is largely around.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e944	When I heard the representative Holmelid, I was reminded of the old, familiar remark: if you have bad arguments, you raise the voice. That's what you come from that edge. The insinuation and the claims are directly incorrect. For the 2004 Progress Party, the marginal field would not be developed otherwise, we talked about tax relief, so it would be completely wrong to make history. Once again, the 1970s is beginning to be a while ago, and I think our representative, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, has done it quite well. So the same Holmelid tries to produce it as if the petroleum industry as well as steal labor that we need in another type of industry in Norway. It is, with respect to reporting, to turn the whole problem upside down. We can talk about education. Some of the challenge for the Norwegian education system is that we train too few realists, we train for few technologists. It's a general problem, and it hasn't helped people far out on the left, or quite far into the center, have been floating around for years and said that the petroleum industry is a sunset, which is directly wrong, and which this petroleum message is about. But you've made the impression that people haven't taken the education that they should take, if they were to be secure jobs in the future. At least the message from this big business must be that young people must take education and be secure jobs in the future, so the real subjects, the technology subjects, not least petroleum-related ones, are the absolute way to go. But SV and others have contributed to undermining the confidence in that education. So to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen from SV: it's pretty interesting to listen to what he says, but we all understand that it's not true. It is completely incompatible with what SV says about climate change – about two thirds of the national population – and what is the consequence of this petroleum notification. It's possible that SV believes in it itself, but it's not a believer. SV has changed its position in a number of areas. SV has gone from thinking that it would reduce the rate of extraction, and that it was a good climate policy, to today being behind this kerosene message, which is about the opposite. SV was in its time also against the pilot plant for CO2 cleaning at Snow White, today it sounds as if you mean something else. If you are going through history, at least SV has very little to point to in terms of credibility in the relationship between petroleum policy on the one hand and climate policy on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e960	I would also like to draw attention to the SV's policy in this field. It is obvious that SV has to talk to two voices, one in the red-green government, and one in this room. Whether the TV 2's investigation in Lofoten is less or more credible than the A-press's investigation is not known; we will not be able to do that either. When the representative, Serigstad Valen, said that the Progress Party wanted to tune and drive in the oil and gas extraction, it would have been interesting to hear more about it, but now the representative has used up his speaking time. The question of SV's oil and gas policy is not strange. The current Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said in the last growing period that first we had hydropower in Norway, then we got oil and gas, and now we were ready to enter the wind and solar times. This is probably what SV's real policy today is: reducing oil and gas extraction. But there is no idea from SV about how this should be done. Today, the renewables from wind power and solar are negligible, and we need, as the message says, to have a large production of oil and gas for a long time in the future. The SV’s position at this point is contrary to the IEA’s wish that Norway produce as much oil and gas as possible up to at least 2030. To the representative Holmelid I would say that we do not want to replace hydropower with gas power, but we want Norway to give us the opportunity to use gas power to develop our industry – which the rest of the world can do. We are very proud in Norway that we sell gas to many countries, and that they use it for industrial travel, etc. But in this country, where we have a very large share of renewable hydropower, we're not going to do that. The propulsion party wants to expand more hydropower. That's not going to happen. They're afraid of the consequences of that. In fact, the Progress Party wants to go into all protected watercourses and see if one cannot use a large part of the energy there, at least significant energy, for more renewable hydropower. It seems that SV does not believe that hydropower is renewable, but that it must be wind or sun.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e975	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e978	My so-called tirad came on the basis that I believe that Norway, which has had so much revenue on petroleum, has an additional responsibility for finding solutions to the climate crisis and finding technological solutions for the future. These are not small questions, which the Council of State is talking about, these are big questions. If the CO2 emissions, the extraction rate and the protection of vulnerable areas of the Borten Moe correspond to only 0,5 pst. by the oil policy, I understand why it goes as it goes. This message adds up to a clear breach of the climate agreement, as I see it, and the Christian People's Party is the only party that points this out in the setting. In the case of TFO, it is clear to me that SV will have transparency that they are increasing the extraction rate, while they say they will reduce it. Yes, at least one can see that they are double - communicating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e992	There have been many comments and comments through the debate on the degree of consensus in the vote. I would just like to say that there is a great deal of agreement on major parts of the policy relating to the further development of the petroleum sector. It also shows the setting. But then the Christian People's Party has marked a clear distance not least at one particular point, namely, the relationship between our climate objectives and our petroleum policy. And there's no immaterial point, that's not 0.5 pst. the content of the notification, but it is a significant premise for the long-term development of the whole sector. It simply has to do with the extent to which we commit ourselves to our own objectives and the importance of climate policy as a premise for all sectors of society in the future. Then I would like to say to the representative Serigstad Valen that the red-green government deserves to be commended for having done a lot of positive in terms of more transparency about the concession processes on the base. There's been a lot of good happening during this government. But it should also be noted that it is wrong, as the representative Serigstad Valen says, that we did not prioritise it when the Christian People's Party put in government. Because if you go back and see what's written on that topic, you'll find that the first steps to more transparency around the hearings were taken – as far as I remember – during the 19th round of the concession, during the Bondevik II government, and that you then announced that you would take new steps in the next round to open up even more. So there's just another point where the red-green government's show list really started with the Bondevik II government's grip. Finally, in the debate, I would just like to point out that if we really want to do something about the climate emissions from Norwegian sockets, the power supply is an essential element, and the power from land is mentioned by several. But what is required for us to do that? Well, the message has a very good description of the challenges associated with it. But there's little about the solutions, because the point is that if you leave Statnett to figure out the calculator and figure out whether it's profitable every time there's a project, you're out too late. We've experienced that before. The point is that you actually have to turn the tile around, so that the Minister of Energy is planning an energy system today, on land, which is capable of providing the base for future findings. You started at the wrong end again. It shows how important it is to build the climate agreement as a premise against petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1001	Oskar J. Grimstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1005	SV's representative Alf Egil Holmelid owed me for quote fraud. I'm not going to wear that. The reason is that I do not mention the equipment and supplier industry, because there is a lot more nuanced image, with large, varying results. But I agree: it's a very important industry, with a high level of competence, with skills that might also help solve the climate challenge. But when it comes to the two-part business of which the representative Holmelid was busy, he talked about the petroleum industry and the traditional industry. It's a completely different image, and it's that piece of these two that gives the best results -- that's the petroleum sector -- we both know that. It was the one I understood, and it was the one I was clear that SV and Holmelid later argued that was about to go into the sunset – it is only a matter of time before it should end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1012	Erling Sande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1015	There has been an engaged debate – something more constructive in the start-up phase, I thought, than at the end. It gets almost comical when the Progress Party with a lot of weight – after showing itself to the 1970s, pulled it into the debate and got appropriate appeal from the Council of State – gets hurt again once again to have to apologize for the positions one had in the 1970s. When I took the floor now, it was to tell me disunity in the summary to the representative Meling that the debate shows that the opposition is largely concerned with petroleum policy. The fact is that today the Storting gathers to a large extent about the message and – through it – the petroleum policy. To the extent that it is unsavory, it is the message that represents the middle position, while the extremes are the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the Christian People's Party and the Left on the other. We can see that, for example. through the articles held by the opposition here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1022	I noticed that the representative Solvik-Olsen reacted very strongly to my previous post. In fact, he reacted so strongly that he had to resort to unparliamentary expressions to express himself. I won't. But I understand that it may not be easy to be reminded of the history of its party. In 1975, forward-looking politicians had to see what the oil could give our nation of employment and welfare. Not everyone was equally foresight here. I think we should understand that. But we can't just forget the story and minimize that a party that has later grown big would dispose of the petroleum resources for tens of billions of dollars. This was a faulty grip that the lot today should not devalue, but rather admit. Otherwise, I think this has been a very good and forward-looking debate. I also think the Council of State and the Government should be pleased that today there is such a broad consensus on the petroleum industry and the opportunity it can give to our country. We still expect a lot of this industry, and we are lucky – privileged – in this country that has this fantastic resource for even years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1031	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1034	I understand that this is a little complicated for the representative of Arnesen. The part of progress was not to dispose of the petroleum resources. It was about who was going to invest in the operator's cabinet, and it's something else. I also understand that Arnesen does not choose to comment that the Workers' Party had exactly the same position when it comes to disposing of oil resources to Volvo – or to getting ownership of Volvo. Then you're going to be fair in this debate, so you have to bring both sides of this picture. Arnesen certainly doesn't have that as a goal, I see. So it's a quote joke: let me quote from Dagbladet on April 6, 2010. There, the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen writes, representing SV: ‘During this ageing period, the government shall provide a new oil notification. Perhaps it's time to look ahead, and discuss the phase-out of oil extraction." Ergo: It's an exit message. It can't be understood in any other way. If it is a quote scam, a contact should be made with the editor. I can also give out the quotes from any other settings where SV has said they are against oil extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1046	Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1049	The representative, Grimstad, said in his first post that I had said that I would stop the oil industry. I didn't say that. Now he tried to calm down and said that I had said there could be a conflict between the oil industry and other industries. I'm telling you, it could be a conflict. At the same time, I said that there is a resource that we should use in the right way to avoid developing into a conflict, because that's exactly the industry we're going to use to build a robust business. Then Solvik-Olsen says that phasing out and decommissioning are the same thing. The phase-out of the oil industry will happen at some point in time. There's no doubt about it, so that's going to happen, we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1056	When you listen to this debate, you can get the impression that there is a great deal of disagreement in this room about Norwegian petroleum policy. It's not. There is a broad consensus on Norwegian petroleum policy. It was before this message was submitted, and it is after this message has been submitted and adopted. Then there's a certain round around the semantics. Of course, it is tempting for everyone to poke a little bit away from the SV, which obviously primarily means something other than what is stated in the message. The Central Party also has different opinions, but there's a lot of it broken into many fractions, and the Council of State represents one of those fractions. In the course of the debate, we have seen that a change of words has developed between the Progress Party on the one hand and the Christian People's Party and SV on the other. Bendiks H. Arnesen also signed up in that change of words and said that the Advance Party would ‘remove everything’ – which I think was the quote – from the petroleum business. But SV has also largely been against all new fields – to make an equally broad generalization – so then we have represented the extremes, and none of them represent reality. However, there is an important point, and that is that the work to be done in connection with the climate communication is going to be demanding for all of us. There is a broad consensus on oil policy, petroleum policy, and there is also a relatively broad consensus that we should achieve our climate objectives. It's going to be demanding, and this kerosene message hasn't made it any easier – I think we're going to be honest about that. But we're going to be able to achieve goals if only the government starts and delivers a climate message – in the situation we're in now, it's going to be more expensive and more difficult to achieve the goals we've set for every single day that goes. If the government does not submit it soon, it will ultimately not be possible to achieve the targets within the 2020 deadline. Let me also say that there's been a lot of talk about Statfjord in the 1970s. But this government has spent 20 billion dollars. NOK to buy up from 63 to 67 pst. in Statoil without any real influence. It's a symbolism policy. It also shows that there are a lot of ways to spend the money, and it's not sure that we're going to put them all in the same basket, if it doesn't give us anything again. That purchase is an example of a use of public resources that might not have been so fortunate. I also have the opportunity to take the word one more time, so this can keep us going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1071	An opportunity is no obligation, the President will note. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1076	I was born in the 1970s myself. When you turn in old debates from the Storting at that time, I might remind you that there was also a debate here the same decade about whether to introduce color television or not in this country, and there were apparently some parties here in this Chamber who were against it – just so we believe it when we take hold of old debates that are relatively uninteresting today. Then I have to say, when I sum up a little bit of the debate, that although the Progress Party and the Right have a slightly different position than the Christian People's Party and the Left, at least the Christian People's Party and the Left are honest. They see that petroleum policy and climate policy are not as simple as they can be reconciled. There is an SV on a completely different level, for they later feel that the petroleum policy they are behind in this communication is compatible with the policy of the same party on the climate side. It's not for believers. The Christian People's Party and the Left are at least honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1851]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1100	Our dependence on energy supply is great. Energy availability is among the most critical elements of our society, and security of supply issues deserve a strong focus. There have been some changes since the Energy Act was adopted. Climate change can give us some preparedness challenges as the changes are likely to lead to major environmental and natural disasters in a climate that is predicted to be warmer, wetter and more wild. Furthermore, it is also important to take into account the threat that could be posed by terrorist attacks against our energy infrastructure. I am therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee that adheres to the government's proposal for changes to the Energy Act and in some other laws to strengthen the legal basis for the effective management of extraordinary events in peacetime. It is important to focus on preventive safety and security measures related to our energy installations, while at the same time we have a device that will enable us to restore normal operation as soon as possible in the event of an accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1125	I am not speaking because I have the intention to create a long debate. I just take the word because I want to point out that history repeats itself. The government has made it a tradition to grant large amounts of money for CO2 management at Mongstad in the state budget, and then to withdraw most of the money when one arrives in December. In the state budget for the current year, in 2011, it was allocated 1.5 billion. kr for CO2 handling in Mongstad, in which case 1 billion will be deducted. NOK of this appropriation back. The Christian People's Party has counted on the total appropriations: over the period 2006–2011, the government of the State budgets has allocated more than 10 billion. kr for CO2 handling in Mongstad. In the annual budget changes, like the one we're dealing with now, is more than 4 billion. kr withdrawn, while 4 brd. kr has been converted into short-term loans. Then we're left with a snout of 2.5 billion. kr that has been granted to Mongstad since 2006. That's the truth. The government promised us a moon landing at Mongstad. They were to clean the gas power plant for CO2 by 2014. This was a promise to the voters, given in the new year, that we all remember. Now they're saying they're going to decide if they're going to clean by 2016. If they continue as they suggest, there will never be any cleaning in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1148	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1855]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1164	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1856]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1172	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1180	A total of 28 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposals 1 to 15, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 16-27, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 28, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with a case that ensures that future expansion of new fields and major conversions of existing fields will, as a general rule, be based on emission-free power from land.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1209	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 17, 22, 24, 26 and 27, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The size request of the government, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, to submit proposals for measures to increase the turnover of holdings in the field, including allowing Petoro to operate active portfolio adjustment to increase secondary market activity and to facilitate changes in ownership.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the Working Environment Act in order to look at possible changes that may reduce the cost of the socket. Requirements for HMS and the external environment shall not be reduced. The review shall be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a long-term plan, together with the related cost estimate, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, on how the Petroleum Authority will meet the HMS challenges on a Norwegian base in a 10-year perspective. This plan must take particular account of challenges related to both the degree of maturity of existing petroleum waste licences and the activity of industry in new, demanding areas.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for measures to strengthen private Norwegian ownership of the supplier industry, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, in order to ensure a level playing field with internationalisation, including the elimination of property taxes.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish during 2012 a new forum for cooperation on pilots and the initial use of new technologies with the participation of the main actors and decision-makers on the base, where the Oil Directorate and Petoro must play a central role.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals during the spring 2012 session to facilitate the collection of highly skilled labour from abroad on labour immigration, including: 1. Grant residence and work permits for more than one year. 2nd@item: inlistbox Insert prior approval for the recruitment from abroad of key personnel in the companies. 3rd@item: inlistbox Simplify the application process for families. Harmonise regulations and practices for reporting requirements of tax authorities. 4th@item: inlistbox Assess whether the tax rules applicable to temporary labour in Norway can be simplified.’ The left has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1267	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18-21, 23 and 25 from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the territorial restrictions in the Norwegian International Ship Register, which relate, inter alia, to the prohibition of going on a regular route between Norwegian and foreign ports.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘During 2012, the government is asked to take an initiative in cooperation between the authorities and the petroleum industry to collect data on the resource potential of the northern Barents Sea and the sea areas around Jan Mayen. The government is requested to report this work to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget 2013. ‘... Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate initiation of the impact assessment of annual oil and gas activity in Northern Ireland VI, Northern Ireland VII and Troms II.’; Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider drawing up its own monitoring report on the role of Norway as a gas nation, both nationally and internationally.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to determine how best to carry out the Petroleum Supervision and Supervision tasks when petroleum activity increases in the northern sea areas, either by setting up a branch office in Harstad, where the Oil Directorate has been present for many years, or by other means, and to present this to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, a stepping-up plan for the State-funded petroleum research, including the research programme PETROMAKS and DEMO 2000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1310	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–15 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘During 2012, the Government asks the Government to review the impact of the merger between Statoil and Hydro on Norwegian soil and the challenges it faces in relation to: (a) Actor image (b) Supplier industry (c) Technology development and R & D (d) Degree of exploitation (e) Transferability of licences (f) Internationalisation. The review shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to be set down by the government during the spring 2012 session, in which the oil companies and the supplier industry take joint responsibility for cost reductions, without jeopardising a high HMS standard.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a transparent methodology in line with the Ministry of Finance’s cost-benefit analysis guide to be used in changing requirements and practices on the government’s socket to show the costs and benefits of the changes. The methodology is presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the petroleum industry, is asked to make a thorough evaluation during 2012 of the benefits associated with better coordination of areas on Norwegian soil. The evaluation should examine the impact of coordination on profitability, including operating costs and extraction rates in existing and surrounding fields. The analysis shall form the basis for possible measures for better coordination on Norwegian continental shelf. The evaluation shall be presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government, together with the companies on a Norwegian base, is asked to establish during 2012 an area forum for each area where overall strategies and plans are presented and discussed. The government is requested to report this work to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget 2013. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design a new public indexing list for fields in operation that are published annually. This indexation list should contain indicators to allow an assessment of the company’s work related to increased extraction. A public indexation list will help to increase the focus of companies on increased field extraction. The government is requested to report this work to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget 2013. ‘... Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Stortinget with a status report on the use of CO2 as pressure support for increased oil extraction, as well as plans for further work on it, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of Petoro by ensuring more flexible financing than today by directly financing Petoro over the cash flow from the socket rather than through State budget appropriations.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in the petroleum tax system that can strengthen profitability in order to increase the extraction rate in the field of operation at the latest in the context of the 2013 State budget. Such changes should be initially neutral in spirit.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit to the Stortinget proposals for necessary legislative changes during the spring 2012 session in order to allow banks and other financial institutions to take a pledge in future tax mergers for investments in production on Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘During the spring of 2012, the government is asking for a sample to be set up to look at how we can strengthen technology, product development, industrial construction and oil protection preparedness competences.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, a stepping-up plan for the State Oil Protection Preparedness.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider the separation of oversight and preparedness through a change in the division of labour between the Directorate of Climate and Pollution and the Coastal Agency, where the Directorate of Climate and Pollution is to supervise, while the Coastal Agency is to be responsible for the preparedness, and to place the revised division of labour ahead of the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider bringing together all maritime safety work under one department and to present it to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2013 government budget.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘In 2012, the government is asked to provide an appropriate update of the Water Safety and Oil Protection Storing Communication – St.meld. No 14 [[2004-2005]] The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1692	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e1702	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-19.ana.ud153e2925	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
