ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e26	The called alternates, for Hedmark County Farahnaz Bahrami and for Telemark County Odin Adelsten Bohmann, have taken the seat. The Workers' Party's Enlarged Group submitted an application for a care permit to the representative of Tor Bremer on 23 and 24 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Sonja Edvardsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e52	Sonja Edvardsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e57	On behalf of Gunnar Gundersen, Arve Kambe, Svein Flätten and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to set up an independent Financial Policy Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e62	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e74	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Grete Faremo, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Lars Peder Breck will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e83	I want to ask questions to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. We see in these days that the different food chains and shops set up their prices – and it is relatively significant. We see that this is happening at a time when it is referred to as the economic situation on the world market, and too much product, of course, is the case. However, some of the areas where price increases are currently being made are those excluded from competition from abroad and also from the international price market, namely Norwegian agricultural products. Among other things, we have have seen that there has been a significant increase in the price of TINE milk. We also have other agricultural products that go up in price. This happens despite the fact that TINE is a market regulator in the milk sector and that the pre-tax result was 1,085 billion. kr. Norwegian households are struggling these days with both very high electricity prices and higher food prices. We also see that our border trade is reaching new heights. It is assumed that last year's border trade reached sky high 12 billion. kr. This also jeopardizes Norwegian jobs in the food industry. A litre of milk on the Swedish side of the border costs NOK 7.50 converted into Norwegian kroner. A study carried out here in Oslo shows that the milk costs between 15 and 16 kroner. My question to the Council of State is this: What will the Council of State do to make Norwegian consumers have more reasonable food?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e96	The price increases we now see at the shops on 1 February are primarily the result of the negotiations between the chains with their suppliers, and this also applies to dairy products, since it was mentioned by the representative Nesvik in his question. There is therefore no direct link to the agricultural negotiations. Here the direct price results will not be available until 1 July. What is happening in Norway is that we have had a decline in food prices. From December 2009 to December 2010, consumer prices for food and non-alcoholic beverages decreased by 0.5 pst., according to the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Research. Meat products, for example, went down by 3.4 pst. Dairy products increased by 2,6 pst. During the same period the price of electricity, including grid rental, increased by more than 21 pst. and fuel with 8 pst. The point is that the price of different goods varies, but the large picture on food has been that the price has fallen. I would like to stress that in Norway we have very stable conditions in the food sector, as opposed to what we see internationally – with rising food prices historically. The big fluctuations we've seen internationally have hardly turned us in. The starting point for stability is that we have an agricultural contract system that sets a price level, which thus creates predictability for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e105	At least it is nice to see that the Council of State itself refers to those areas where it has really been high price growth, among other things. for fuel and electricity, which are areas where weather prices are being driven by the State. Nor is it so strange that food prices in Norway have been relatively stable. But the problem is that they are relatively stable very high. That's the problem. When the council says it's up to the food chain to determine the milk price, it's actually not right. In an interview with Nettavisen on 3 February, Mageli in Orkla Brands refers to the fact that the increase in milk prices in the dairy sector is precisely due to the grips TINE itself is making. TINE is the regulator of the market, while being the second largest player. My question to the Council of State is once again: Isn't the Council of State concerned that Norwegian consumers have to take an increasingly higher share of food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e116	The fact is that prices in Norway have fallen in the last period, as I also underlined – with an average of 0.5 pst. In the case of food prices in general in Norway, they are high if compared directly with food prices in other countries. However, in relation to the level of income we have in Norway, food prices are relatively low. We use approx. 11 pst. of our income for food. We also know that in most other countries a higher proportion of the income goes to food. What is the starting point and the point here is that the agricultural agreement system – if it is what is attacked by the representative Nesvik – creates stability, a stability that is not in other countries. Today we see that the world market situation is such that prices are rising sharply as a result of floods, as a result of climate change, as a result of droughts, etc. We are largely protected from the results as a result of a Norwegian model when it comes to fixing prices for large parts of our products.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e125	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e128	Norway has the world’s most expensive milk — yes, over twice as much as in Sweden and the rest of Europe. At the same time, we record that the market regulator TINE delivers a giant surplus of around 1.2 billion. kr. What does the monopolist Tine dairies do? Yes, they are once again increasing the price of milk to the Norwegian consumer. Today we have a milk toll on the fading 388 p.m., and I also note that the signals coming from the market about the new farm to do the same with the cheese. This means that Ola and Kari have to pay significantly more for the food, if you increase the price of the cheese. So my question is: When can the Norwegian Consumer Council promise that the Norwegian consumer will not pay for the faulty agricultural and food policy of the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e135	I have to be allowed to say that I am very pleased that the market regulator operates so well in the competitive environment they have, and in this way creates a large profit that is next time paid out to Norwegian farmers or contributes to new and sensible, forward-looking investments in the dairy sector. The price equalisation scheme in the milk sector contributes to the financing of other, more unprofitable productions. The milk price is an instrument to generate income for the farmer – that is right. At the same time, the total price paid by Norwegian consumers for their food is relatively low — some of the lowest in Europe. We're using 11 pst. of the income for food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e142	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e145	In the past, the Council of State has been concerned about the contribution of Norwegian chains to prices and increased prices for Norwegian consumers. Although this was a play on the question from the representative Nesvik, the Council of State does not take that ball. It might be related to the leaks from the Food Chain Selection, which indicate that this is the mountain that gives birth to a mouse, and where nothing really comes out of it. Then my question is to the Council of State: is he thinking that he could take a similar review of Norwegian cooperatives and see how they affect the prices and cost levels of Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e153	I just want to say that I am happy to receive the result of the Food Chains Committee. I'm really excited about it. There have been obvious leakages, but I do not know the outcome of the discussions that go there. When it comes to the question of whether we should go through the price level, the pricing system, for Norwegian cooperatives, I just want to make the representative Fleet aware of the mandate of the Food Chains Committee, because there is no sign that it is only the food chains they are going to go through. They must go through pricing throughout the whole value chain, including industry, cooperatives, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e160	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e163	I will continue where the representative Fleet escaped. As the Council of State will be aware, the Christian People's Party is behind the agricultural market organisation. But we are very concerned that the government is taking action in relation to the huge structural change that has occurred at the final stage of food sales in Norway, where four chains are now controlling the entire market. The largest chain has 40 pst. of the market. The competition authorities do not seem to be particularly concerned about this. That's why it's good that we've got the Food Chain Selection. But it is important that the government signals the willingness to enter the end-stage competition. We need greater transparency and transparency in contract terms. We need to consider how we can limit vertical integration – a strong focus on our own brands, exclusive supplier agreements, pay for shelf placement and cross-subsidy. Will the Council of State promise that the government will take proper action against the final stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e172	I believe that the Christian People's Party and the government have largely agreed on some of the challenges we have in this area. It is quite right, as the representative also stresses, that we are concerned about the accumulation of power that happens in value chains for food. That's why we've set up the Match Chains Committee. I look forward, as I said in my previous answer, to getting this review, this analysis that the Food Chains Committee is going to give. I, on my side, shall at least do what I can to follow up concrete proposals that address the challenges we see here. I'm concerned that we're going to look at the whole value chain, and I'm busy with openness and transparency, so that we get a better grip on the power conditions that are in the chains, and not least how we're going to get the right prices both for consumers and for producers. I want to say in the end that what we're doing here is in line with research, work that's also happening internationally, among other things. in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e181	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e184	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. We all agree that the long-term solution to the problem of piracy is ashore, and it is good that Norway contributes with the rule of law and criminal prosecution. In the meantime, however, piracy in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean is becoming increasingly extensive and increasingly brutal. Today 30 ships with over 700 seafarers are hijacked. Many of these ships remain hijacked for months. While the pirates geographically extend their area of operation to include the Indian Ocean, they also change the way they operate. It's e.g. not uncommon today that hijacked ships are used to hijack new ships. The area in which pirates operate is the world's most important trade route, and Norway is strongly present. Norway had last made a military contribution in the Gulf of Aden with the frigate KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’ from August 2009 to February 2010. We were then in the EU's Atalanta operation. It is incredibly important that Norway contribute to the international operation against piracy outside the Horn of Africa. When the Foreign and Defence Committee visited the Maritime Defense in November last year, they were clear that they could send a frigate to the Gulf of Aden early – i.e. in the autumn of 2011 – provided that they have sufficient time to set up. In an answer to a question from me on 15 February, the Minister of Defence said: «The recent development is worrying. On this basis, a new Norwegian contribution with a frigate contribution to the anti-pirate operations outside Somalia in the autumn of 2012 is now assessed.» Norway’s contribution to anti-pirat operations in 2011 is not foreseen. What is the reason why the government is considering sending a new military contribution to the Gulf of Aden only in the autumn of 2012, when the Naval Defense is ready to go in the autumn of 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e200	The government has had a strong and sustained focus on the situation outside Somalia. Our approach has been broad, and, as the representative is familiar with, we have had a strong effort both on land and at sea. We have cooperated both with the Atalanta operation, as the representative mentioned, and with the African Union and with our allies in dialogue on what measures are needed. As has already been said on my part, we are of course considering further contributions by marine vessels. We have this to assess for 2012, but also follow the situation closely. As the representative pointed out, this is an important area with 20,000 passages and within 1000 Norwegian controlled ships. This is a challenging situation in which 25 marine vessels have important tasks, where we have made contributions, and where we are also assessing new contributions. Of course, we also focus on the measures that the industry itself is taking, and we are now dealing with how we can follow up the Stortinget’s decision on the Ship Safety Act and on watchkeeping activities. It is central for us to clarify the conditions to which the shipowners themselves have to deal, relating to the responsibility they also have for safety on their own ship. I can assure the representative that this is an area in which we have a great deal of focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e207	I guess the situation of the 700 seafarers who are currently on hijacked ships off the coast of Somalia is far more demanding than the situation is for the government. Now is the time for ratings to be over soon. My question was not about the assessments themselves, it was about why it has not been found right to send a frigate to the Gulf of Aden in the autumn of 2011 when the defense of the sea is ready to go, and it is also about assessing it in the autumn of 2012. The question is: why don't you send a frigate in the fall of 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e214	When we have an effort of well over 200 million. This work in Somalia — on land — is a significant effort. It also illustrates the importance of tackling problems on land. Of course, we'll participate with our allies, and we've already contributed to the operation. This is to compare with -- I've used the expression before -- a stafat. We've participated before, and we're ready to participate again. The Defence Manager has also made public statements about the resources available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e221	There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e224	What kind of impression – what kind of picture – does the Council of State think it creates both of the Norwegian defence and of the government's eternal assessments, when one is unable to set up a simple, uncomplicated mission to deal with pirates, and the government does not have the power to stand up to Norwegian interests? At all, the state council, during this long assessment round, understands that people are wondering why we've invested 22 billion. kr in five Norwegian frigates, whose impression is that they should be at the berth of the West and not set up when Norwegian interests are threatened, as is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e230	The government has made significant contributions to the operation at sea and has also contributed to land. I also want to commend the industry for taking its responsibility seriously. They exemplaryly comply with industry's own safety recommendations, and the government will also contribute to the rapid clarification of the conditions of possible use of armed guards on board. Of course, the frigates shouldn't be at the dock. We've already had a frigate in the operation. The phase-in measures that were necessary for the reception of our frigates are mostly above, and we will again be able to participate with frigates, for example. in a NATO context in the Gulf of Aden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e237	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e240	So the government is not only satisfied, but extremely satisfied with its efforts, which are now just about paying off the problem and getting others to do the job that needs to be done in the Gulf of Aden. In this context, it should be pointed out that the crews of the hijacked ships are being subjected to increasingly harsh treatment, and they do not know what is going on. This has become a big business. While each ship was purchased with ransoms of the order of $150 000 per ship in 2005, the amount in 2010 is up to $5.4 million. dollars per ship. So this has become a business that has less and less to do with the situation on land in Somalia. The question is: what makes the situation in the autumn of 2012 completely different, and then you have to send a ship – [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e247	The President requests that representatives, and insofar as they are also state councils, stay within the allotted speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e250	The government sees the need for further action. We have a broad approach and also assess which actions work best, and we consider which measures help to prevent further escalation of violence. It is right that the representative points out: we have had a situation that has evolved from evil to worse. Therefore, it is important to choose good contributions that prevent the escalation of violence. Here I also think the industry itself has contributed. When Norwegian ships have also implemented recommended safety measures, and with this help to increase their own safety as they have done, I also think there is something that obliges us to go carefully through what actions work. So the plan is further contributions with frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e257	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e260	I have a question for the Minister of Health. The Health Directorate has recently submitted an evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, which I believe the Minister of Health, like me, reads with great interest. It is a large, comprehensive report and evaluation that has come. It appears that the Health Directorate has commissioned a study from the Knowledge Centre to find out if ultrasound during weeks 11 to 13 of pregnancy is suitable for detecting heart failure. The report from the Knowledge Centre was also recently submitted. It shows that early ultrasound measuring so-called head resolution distinguishes poorly between healthy foetuses and foetuses with heart failure. Yes, most will be misdiagnosed, and no one can be treated so early. Workers’ party representatives nevertheless claim in the media throughout the country that heart failure can be detected and treated by early ultrasound. In my opinion, this is a mere misinformation, and it is also contrary to the research review from the Knowledge Centre. My question to the Council of State is: What can the Council of State do to respond to the misinformation that we now see from our own party traps?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e269	It's true that we have a review of the Biotechnology Act. It has been evaluated, and we have received the first report in that context. It is also the case that the Biotechnology Act and all its elements raise a number of questions — professional, legal and ethical. The fact that there is also a disagreement in society in general about the professional aspect has made me want us to have a broad and knowledge-based debate on this issue. I have therefore said, at the latest in the UK last Wednesday, that I will take the initiative for a wide-ranging debate – a wide-ranging conference – where all these issues can be addressed. I think that's important for the professional community. It's important for politicians, and it's important in contexts where we have to make difficult choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e276	It is that the Knowledge Centre has acquired all the knowledge that actually exists about this so far. I'm not gonna go on with it. I think it's great that the Council of State will have a conference to just discuss the different angles of this. But to know that there might be something wrong with the child in the 11th week and could not do anything until week 18 is at least clear that it does not provide security, it gives anxiety. It is also presented in the Knowledge Centre's report. Most of the cases that you think are heart defects are actually misdiagnosed. Let me give you an example: when 100 couples are told that their child has an indication of heart failure in week 11, only three to nine of the children will actually prove to have it – a real heart defect – and that will only be seen in weeks 17 to 18. So most people have been anxious for no reason. I would like to ask how the Council of States can contribute to creating security in pregnancy in a way other than early ultrasound.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e285	We have a good maternity care in Norway. We give birth to many children, we give birth to healthy children, and we are increasingly able to save children born too early. A great deal of knowledge has also been gained in the care of the foetus and in the development of the foetus. It's just in this area we're standing, a field where, after all, there's a lot of knowledge, and where we have a lot of people like that. The Knowledge Center. We have research environments in Trondheim that have different opinions in this debate. Just because there has been different professional disagreements, I want us to get all this up at once, so that we can really get these debates done, and so that this can be both informative and instructive for all, including for us politicians, who will ultimately make the difficult choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e292	There will be three follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e296	State radiation protection says that foetal ultrasound is something that should only be used when the medical benefit is greater than possible risk. So they're very clear on the basis of a precautionary principle. And when you can little discover disease in 11-13. week, and at least cannot interfere with the foetus until 17-18. week, how wise is it then to introduce a screening, i.e. an ultrasound, for everyone even when it is not medically necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e301	There may well be a question you ask: Why should you offer this to everyone? But just as full, it's actually that numbers that come out show that over half of all those who are pregnant, even make sure they get to an early ultrasound. You can't refuse to do that, and you can't relate to the results that come from an early ultrasound. Finally, it is the choice of the individual woman that will be crucial in this respect. What is important to us is to say that everyone who is born is welcome with the same human dignity, and to care for both the pregnant and the child being born, in the very best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e306	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e309	50 pst. by Norwegian women want ultrasound early. Waiting with ultrasound until week 18 very often helps parents get very short time to think about if they learn that something is wrong with the fetus. In shock and sorrow, the decision must be made very quickly. On the other hand, ultrasound at week 12 gives us a unique opportunity to provide good information, support and guidance on the injuries or illnesses of the child, which means that more parents may choose to carry the child forward. Knowledge makes you strong. Will the Minister of Health use this opportunity to develop good practices in order to provide this important and correct information?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e316	If the government wants to accept a general offer and give all early ultrasound, it is clear that it will also require good information and good guidance on this. It is then asked how far to go — whether to give early ultrasound as part of the pregnancy control, such as the Workers' Party, for example. The government has not concluded on this because we are in the middle of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. The course we have taken is, of course, special – we need to acquire sufficient and necessary knowledge: What is revealed? What can be revealed? How safe can you be? And then you have to take all of these other things as well. But the fact that you have to be good at consulting, that's when you get more and more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e321	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e324	The National Labour Party Decision on ultrasound for all pregnant women in 12 weeks raises many difficult ethical questions and dilemmas. For the Right, there are two perspectives that are important. First of all, the offer is knowledge-based, and it has a health benefit for mother and children, and second, it doesn't lead to a further selection of fetuses; then we talk about Down's syndrome in general. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health has taken the initiative of the Right to a broad trade conference on this issue, so that both ethical, professional and legal issues are carefully assessed. My question is, is it the outcome of this conference that will be crucial for government policy, or is it the National Labour Party Decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e331	I've previously said why there might be reason to open up that everyone should take early ultrasound, because many do it already and pay for this privately. That's a pretty big cost of it. That's the one question, to take this as part of maternity care. So the next question is, what should be the basis for the government's assessments on this question? Then I can assure the representative, Sjøli, that the government is as concerned as the Right that we should do this in a knowledge-based way. That is why it is important to get all the views on this matter, all the professional assessments, because they are different, so that the choices we make can be as knowledge-based as possible. So the ethical and legal issues that this will affect also need to be clarified. And in that context, we want to take in all the knowledge. This one day will be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e338	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e341	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. We have all followed with increasing unrest in the situation that has arisen after the Icelandic ship left the island of Asmaløy on the whales a few days ago. KV «Harstad» has contributed for several days to the work on oil collection in the area outside of Whaler. The Government's budget for the Coast Guard, adopted by the Stortinget last autumn, provides for a saving in operation on all ships in the service, i.e. less sailing time and more landing time for each ship. How will this affect the presence and ability of the Coast Guard to provide assistance in any other accident or disaster later this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e348	I suppose that we are many who have followed the accident outside of Whaler with great concern, and I am pleased to note that the Coast Guard of course immediately after the accident occurred, redirected two of their ships to assist in case it was necessary, and the ships were also among the first to come to the Hagarist. It's done a very important job, of course, by many. We have helped with our material, and as far as I have been reported, the effort has been well solved by the various responsible bodies, of which we have contributed. Then we were also early on mobilizing the Home Security, the Home Security area that is responsible around Eastfold, and also the Sjöheimeverterung was part of the units that were mobilized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e356	I have to ask the same question again, because the Council of State did not answer my question. So now I ask the Council of State to follow closely. So what I asked you was the budgetary situation. The budget adopted by the red-green majority last autumn involves a cut-off for the Coast Guard departments in the south, with more landlocked and less sailing times for each ship. So my question was: how will this budgetary situation affect the presence and ability of the Coast Guard to provide assistance to any other accidents and disasters later this year? If the President allows that, I would like to ask an additional question after we may get an answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e365	There will probably be an answer from the Council of State, and then there are other representatives who will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e368	I think it's cover to say that the budget is actually not crucial for this type of accident. For our assistance to civil accidents, the defence budget is not dimensional, nor is it for this part of the defence budget. That being said, the representative Myhre points out that we made some savings in the budget, and therefore also in the Coast Guard sailing pattern in the south, because, as agreed in this room, we have prioritised sailing in the north. But assistance for accidents of this kind by the Coast Guard is important for us to give. We therefore set up two vessels to ensure that our contributions could also be used as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e375	There will be four follow-up questions – first Kari Storstrand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e378	In connection with the west fold coast oil collection, KV «Harstad» was night to Monday in action on Virgin Land. KV «Harstad» was guided by a Swedish oil radar surveillance aircraft. The Coast Guard ship collected about 100,000 litres of oil beer. My question is: Is it so to understand that Norway does not itself have available air surveillance capacity, and, if so, when will this be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e385	Without me knowing these things in detail, I am happy to note that in accidents like this, as close to the Swedish border, we could also draw resources from the neighbouring country. I see that, in terms of defence, we have gained ever better cooperation across borders too, not least about practice and training, of course, in order to benefit from this kind of cooperation if the need were to be there. When we then see how civil resources are used across borders, I think there's something that we should be happy about is available when the accident occurs, as in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e390	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e393	I agree with the Council of State that an important work has been done by many, not least by all the volunteers, in this matter. I got an example of our readiness last week when I visited the civil defence department in Stavern, a few days before this accident. There they sat and worked on budget cuts and waited for uniforms, which they lack. Now I know that the civil defence budget is not the responsibility of this Council of State, but I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: does she not know as Minister of Defence that she should take a lead in coordinating the various departments and departments involved in this type of accident, which we have now had two consecutively, i.e. coordinating with the Minister of Fisheries and Coast and with other departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e400	I believe the lines of responsibility for the work to prevent the damage after this accident have been clarified. But I can assure you that both I and several of my colleagues are aware of the responsibility for the overall preparedness and to ensure that the resources are both available, relevant and can be used as best as possible in the event of accidents. It is then important that both the civil defence resources, the Home Protection Agency and other parts of the auxiliaries are the best possible. As far as civil defence is concerned, Stortinget has, among other things, discussed a message not too long ago, and it will be worked afterwards with follow-up to ensure the best possible modernisation of this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e405	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e408	I cannot avoid quoting two wise ministers – the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries – who were travelling: «We have had the Lord of Spring with us. ‘ I think that is trustworthy in many ways, and I think that is a good idea. But that's a little alarming, too, because I think that as politicians we have a job to do in putting the conditions in the best possible way so that when an accident occurs, the preparedness is good enough. As you can see, the Council of State has its hand on a lot -- one can talk civil protection, talk home security, one can talk coastguard, there are many different things in total preparedness that need to be in place. And we've been waiting for the Coast Guard to get his cut. It is worrying to see that when there has been a storm, the preparedness has not been good enough. When there's ice and snow, it hasn't been good enough, and if we hadn't had Spring with us, it could be even worse. Does the Council of State think that the total preparedness is good enough, if the Lord of Spring is not as clear next time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e416	The coastguard has not been cut, but we have made priorities of the north areas that make the sailing pattern in the south slightly different. It's made a good effort and as far as I can see, given what happened, with fairly good results in the first stage. Yet we do not see the full consequences of the accident, unfortunately. In such a work, I would like to stress that luck is not off the road either, and then we'll have to discuss who more involved, in a different way than here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e421	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e424	The Council of State must have heard that there is a concern in the Grand Duchy about the changes made to the funding of the Coast Guard. It is also the case that if you have both the Spring Lord and the Coast Guard on the team, you must have a coastguard that is as operative as the Spring Lord. The left put in its alternative budget a huge coincidence of money for better oil protection, which we wrote could be transferred to the Coast Guard. This flexibility in budgeting is something that can be used in situations like this, which allows the Coast Guard to do the important job it has. After all, the Minister of Defence has a large part of the responsibility for oil protection because the Coast Guard has such an important role in oil protection. I wish the government had put in such flexibility and a room for action in the budgets, so you could give the Coast Guard more money when the Coast Guard gets more tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e431	The Coast Guard does and will continue to do a very important job. In particular, in case of accidents, this type of accident has a high potential for damage, it will be important for the Coast Guard. The size ended up in the budget for the Coast Guard, and agreed with the priorities made. The strengthening of the Coast Guard budget was therefore prioritised for increased sailing activities also in the north. So we get to focus on whether there are things we're experiencing now in the work on this accident that makes it possible for us to do things better later on. But in my opinion it is not right to say that this year's budget for the Coast Guard has made the effort so far in this accident bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e438	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e441	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. Yesterday, the City Council of the Right-leaded in Oslo pointed out that responsibility for the lawful running of a nursing home cannot be outsourced to others, whether the nursing homes are run privately or publicly. To achieve the goal of full hospital coverage, cooperation with private individuals is essential. It also granted the government in January, when one went out and invited the private people to achieve the goal of full health care coverage, just as private people have been absolutely crucial to achieving the goal of full child care coverage. This is the right very satisfied with. In the last escalation plan, the private sector contributed more than 6,000 places in the care sector. But on Monday, on the NRK, we could hear SV's parliamentary leader, Bård Vegar Solhjell, notifying the profits of those who stood up, and limitations similar to what SV has fought for in the kindergarten sector. Does the Minister of Health and Health think that it is possible for private individuals to present themselves in the capacity to which she, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council invited in January, if SV is able to take advantage of its dramatic proposals for changing framework conditions, and will the private actually be willing to stand up in this duel?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e452	There is a big difference between the proposal that the prime minister, the municipal minister and I launched in January, and the fact that hospitalization is being offered without imposing restrictive requirements. The proposal that private people should attend and build a nursing home is going to the building. The grants are granted to the municipalities. It is the municipalities that will enter into an agreement, possibly with ideal builders or with commercial ones. It is also the municipality that determines who should operate, i.e. the contents of the hospital or nursing homes. Of course, a municipality may have the right and the right to put out tenders for commercial purposes, but this can also be done very well under public law, as is done in most of the municipalities of the country, or to ideal providers, who also do a very good and important job in the care of the elderly. So the problem with limitations becomes slightly different because this is an agreement that the municipalities enter into with private developers. The government was particularly concerned about housing construction. Due to EEA legislation, it was not possible to limit this to anyone. We had to let it go to everyone. However, the municipalities have been given a great responsibility to conclude these long-term contracts – they will last for 30 years. As I said, you can choose who should have the operation, that is, the content, at the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e461	I have trouble seeing what's the difference here between private participation in investments and private participation in operations. In both cases it is the municipalities that manage the money, in both cases it is the municipalities that enter into agreements, in both cases it is the content of the agreements that is crucial, and I expect that in both cases it is also the way that the individuals who make the deal intend to make a profit, a profit, of setting it up. The answer given by the Minister of Health and Welfare here gives absolutely no reason for the private to feel at ease in relation to being part of this task. This is to put out tenders without making any demands – I wonder where the Minister of Health got it from. The way Oslo has handled this matter shows exactly how a municipality can actually make claims and, when the requirements are not followed up, cancels the agreement. I therefore have to repeat the question to the Minister of Health and Health: Will there be the kind of demands of the government that SV proposed on the NRK Dagsrevyen, against the private people who are here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e470	There is a great difference between putting the operation of a nursing home on the market and inviting them to participate in the development process. Then it's about building the infrastructure, you could call it buildings. Then it is the municipalities that enter into agreements, and the municipalities conclude long-term agreements, leases on a 30-year basis. The municipalities receive the subsidy and are responsible for it, and the Husbank grants the subsidy to the municipalities under the agreement concluded. So the problem becomes a little bit different compared to the fact that this is about owning infrastructure. Here is the agreement on the specific constructions it will be about. These actors may be big players, they may be small players, they may be completely different, but they are inside the owner's side. Then you can also imagine situations where they can both own and operate, but that's a different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e477	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e480	Good care shall be provided within the framework of the law, and of course there shall be good employment and conditions for employees. The offences in the care of the elderly are unacceptable whether they occur in public or in private. As supervisor Pál H. Lund of the Labour Inspectorate in Oslo said to NTB, there is generally ‘not unknown about double guards and widespread use of overtime in the healthcare system’. The association of younger doctors has also confirmed that this is common in health businesses, for which the Minister of Health is responsible. We now see that the Municipality of Oslo is cleaning up in relation to Adecco. It's imperative. The right considers that high quality and competence are of course, regardless of whether it is a public or a private offer. But what will the Minister of Health do to clean up illegal activities and operations in municipal hospitals and in health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e486	What was revealed at the Adecco-powered nursing home in Oslo was that this with long tours, double tours, unworthy living conditions, non-compliance with tariffs and non-compliance with pay and working conditions was put in place. There is something quite different than whether you say yes to overtime or to go a double watch. Of course, it is not desirable for anyone to go too much double guarding in this sector, where it is so important to be awake and alert to the best interests of patients and residents. It is important to go through the operation in many places, but this is especially in relation to the private sector where it is revealed that you have different pay and working conditions than is usually the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e491	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e494	The municipality of Oslo has terminated the agreement with Adecco, who operates the Ammerudlunden, because of a breach of law and contract. When that case was rolled up in the NRK, Martin Kolberg demanded that the dishes be immediately washed up, that this could not continue, and that the people responsible were held responsible. This has now been done by the Municipality of Oslo, the party and the right-wing-steer. However, we know, and we hear, that there are virtually daily breaches of labour law and other public health laws that have a significant impact both on employees, on the quality of services and on patient safety. It is confirmed, as mentioned, by the Association of Young Doctors in the NRK last week, where they say that the public sector is ‘contaminated by illegal practices’. The question is whether the Council agrees with Kolberg’s report that crimes must lead to immediate dishwashing. And what will she, as the responsible State Council, do specifically in relation to the anarchy-like conditions that have advised under a number of Labour Party Councils, and continue to exist in the public health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e501	I notice the opposition's attack on public health, when it actually turns out that there is a bid in the Municipality of Oslo that has not been after the book, to say it very carefully, and how truly unworthy employment is put into a system. There is something quite different than what may sometimes be necessary, that someone has to work overtime. You have to do that in most industries. Then I would like to say that in public, too, when we buy services, we should be awake and use both labour and health supervision to look at the situation. I have just this week, with the background of this case, taken an initiative towards the Health Inspectorate and the Nursing Association to invite you to a meeting where we are discussing how to set a national quality standard so that we can discover this. Because what's also bad about this case is that the really good, ideal drivers of nursing homes are excluded, because the competition is going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e508	Laila Bavøy – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e511	There is little doubt that today's tendering system is functioning very poorly. We are getting a health and care sector where the ideals are squandered and the small actors are losing for the big ones. There is a cross-press between the public's desire to create services of its own and a competitive system that favours those who can squeeze prices as low as possible. I got an e-mail yesterday, and I refer to two examples from there: ‘To inform that Paulsrud Rehabilitation Centre AS ceases its activities from 1-3-2011.’ This is because they have not been given a renewed agreement with Health South-East RHS. The second concerns Askøy Blå Kors Klinik. Here it is Health West that has not given them renewed agreement, and Health Bergen has taken over completely. So they needed them anyway. It's great for patients and employees, but a non-profit institution is liquidated. Is this really what the Council of State and the Workers' Party want: the closure or acquisition of non-profit institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e525	We've been very clear that we're busy with non-profit institutions. We also see that non-profit institutions do a very good job in many areas of health: the operation of hospitals, rehabilitation, mental health and, more importantly, drugs, where the majority are private and most of them are ideal. So that's not a question. What should really concern the Christian People's Party in this matter is that ideal institutions that run very well, for example. in Oslo, is being challenged on the wrong premises, because you do not have the right competition. That is what is really serious, and as this case has taught us: here we must be attentive, both in the municipalities and in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e532	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e544	There are some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Jon Georg Dale to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is directing him. Question 6, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Bjørn Lødemel, respectively, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e561	‘The introduction of statutory homework from 1st to 4th grade has received massive criticism from both parents, principals and teachers. The criticism is that it is uncertain whether it is the children who most need it, who participate, missing school kisses are also excluding participation. Many municipalities had established a good offer within different class steps. Is the Council of State prepared to amend the legislation as soon as possible so that the school, which knows the needs of the students, can use the funds where they see the need and where teachers are responsible for the teaching?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e568	I do not agree with the description of the homework provided by the representative in the question. We have some different reports on how homework works, but the picture is that quite a lot of people are very happy, have found a good form, and you have solved what is about cloud problems, etc. It is not so strange that it takes some time for a completely new offer to go to. So the intention behind this proposal is to give a good offer for homework, or homework, which is very much for 1–4. steps. It is not the case that this should only be an offer to those who are most in need, we want it to be a broad offer used by a broad student group in each school. Of course, there are some problems related to homework, but since the scheme has not been a full school year, it is a little difficult to summarise. We get a better overview of who is using the teaching aid, for the summer, in the context of the child care survey, and we get an evaluation of how the learning aid for 1 to 4 is used. the operation of the stage in February of one year. Then we'll have a better basis to evaluate it. It is important that school owners and schools have some time to find out how this can work best. It concerns the content of the offer, the local solutions for shooting, how to get good information to parents and students, so that those who want it use it. I think a lot of school owners and schools will adjust what they've been offering so far, a little bit along the way. The preliminary figures we have from the GSI show that the proportion of participants in free homework is about 50 pst, but there are quite wide variations between counties, between municipalities and between schools. We need to closely monitor how this is being done around the municipalities, and of course we need to have a dialogue and assess how we can get the best possible offer over time. But it's too early to give a clear summary of how homework has worked so far. There's a lot of examples of how it works, and then there's some examples that you can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e581	I record what the Minister of Knowledge says, and it's that homework has been taught in homework, and it's going to be done in school. I am also surprised that the government parties are obviously very much in favour of this matter. According to the NRK on 4 February, the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, from the Workers' Party, has been very clear that she is in order to change the legislation on the provision of counselling services, because she sees it as breaking down. Yes, in some cases it has even become worse than before. It is reported, inter alia: also that homework is going to help first-rate drawing. I don't think it's the minister's intention to help with homework. Therefore, I ask, will the Minister ensure that a derogation is granted from the statutory offer to the municipalities that are applying for the use of the teaching aids where they believe that the pupils benefit best?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e586	Marianne Aasen, the head of the committee, and I'm saying the exact same thing. We are now not even through the first year of offering homework for 1–4. steps. Of course, this works a little differently in different municipalities and in different schools. It is also the case that we should be responsive to the feedback coming from the school sector on how to further develop this offer. But now remember to play for 1–4. Steps are largely about learning the knowledge that the teacher has gone through in teaching. It's so small that the option for many of them is first to go to school, then go to the SFO, then throw yourself a little dinner, then go to leisure activities, and then start the homework seven to eight in the evening. Many parents are very happy that more people can do more schoolwork at school. We're going to follow this closely, because our goal is to find a system that makes the schools find a good form of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e595	I note that the government parties agree with the chamber, but disagree with the public space. In this case, I believe it is important to avoid a performance. We have already received many feedback that the training aid does not work as requested. But the Minister will evaluate the scheme in 2012. The cost of today’s counselling services – i.e. for two years – is 340 million. kr. The Progress Party actually believes that the use of 340 million. k would give the school owners a much greater opportunity to fulfil their lecturing needs. If local authorities are given the opportunity to provide lessons in the way they think the students are doing the best they can, this will also provide an even better and broader basis for finding out what is best in the evaluation that is announced. Then I ask the Minister to think well about, and I ask again: Is the Minister interested in having the best possible basis for what works for the students in their assessment of homework, or is the principle that will determine what benefits the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e604	Of course, I'm primarily concerned that we're going to succeed in giving the youngest students good work habits and the opportunity to finish more of the school work at school. But lessons for 1-4. step is training. There may also be a drawing in the first class – many will be familiar with it when the first classes come home with homework. So there's a lot of different feedback about homework. That's why it's not even possible for everyone to stamp out some single observations, or single statements about how it works, what the whole thing actually looks like. That's why we need to have knowledge and get a different view of how it's right to move on. I get a lot of enquiries about schools that are happy, which have almost all the students in their homework, and that have got this in a very good way. But, of course, they don't reach with their homage in the media – this is not the way this world is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e615	‘The Ministry of Knowledge announced on 1 February that three out of four State Deaf Schools will be closed, including Hunstad School in Bergen. The representatives of the parents concerned respond to the fact that this decision has been taken without having been heard and before the notification of the alert with the follow-up to the recommendation of the Midlyng Committee. Bergen's plans for new school construction to replace the current one are also affected. Can the Council of State guarantee that the students receive an equal offer and that the municipality of Bergen does not incur additional costs in the event of closure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e622	In NOU 2009:18, the right to learn, it was proposed to complete state primary schools for hearing impaired people on the basis of a strong drop in the number of pupils at these schools. There are now a total of 69 students at these schools, divided into four schools, which is a halve of six-year-old students. The number of students varies from 14 to 21 students per school. At Hunstad School, there are 18 students. The reason for the drop in the number of students is that parents are increasingly opting for an organized offer at home school for their hearing-impaired children, and do not choose to send them to boarding school. So the parents' perception of what's best for the children has changed. It is important to take action to avoid confusion in school skills as the student base fails at schools. On this basis, the Ministry of Knowledge wishes to complete three of the four state primary schools for hearing impaired persons after the 2013–2014 school year. At the same time, the Ministry will assume the responsibility of the State to maintain a strong technical environment for sign language. Full-time training at the State Primary School of Trondheim Municipality, A.C. Mills school, therefore, will be maintained, and it will be open to students from all over the country. In recent years, good local services for hearing-impaired students have been built to ensure that students’ right to training in and in sign language at home school is met. Hearing-impaired children who receive their home school training are offered part-time training in Statped. 229 students receive this offer today. This offer shall be continued, improved and expanded. The same applies to Statped's support and guidance to municipalities to facilitate good training for hearing-impaired students. The Ministry of Education has authorised the Directorate of Education to enter into discussions with the municipality of Bergen on the acquisition of the primary school offer at Hunstad school at Statped Vest. This is based on a wish from the municipality of Bergen about such discussions. The Ministry wants the dialogue with the municipality of Bergen to continue. Municipalities are responsible for providing organised training to all their students. State schools continue until most of the children have completed primary or secondary school. In this way, the municipalities have plenty of time to plan an organized and equally good offer for hearing-impaired children in their municipality. I am sure that the municipalities, together with reinforced guidance and support from Statped, will offer a good offer to hearing-impaired children in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e637	I thank you for the answer, although I did not hear that the Council of State in its reply could guarantee that the students received an equally good offer – but she was convinced about it. So it's like Hunstad School is just one of the three schools that's been proposed, but it's the school that's in my district. In the case of Hunstad school, according to the municipality of Bergen, most of the students at this school have different types of problems related to being deaf, but also some additional problems, so that in many ways there are the weakest students who go to this school and who will be most demanding to give an alternative offer in ordinary primary school. At least it's a moment. With regard to the school in Trondheim, which is maintained, I believe that the Council of State does not believe that it is realistic for students from Bergen of primary school age to travel at boarding school in Trondheim. It can't possibly be an equally good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e646	It is very important that we manage to get good processes with the municipality of Bergen and with parents and teachers at Hunstad school and the other hearing schools, because we have to deal with a situation that has halved the number of students at the hearing schools over a six-year period. This development will continue. So if you don't make a good alternative approach to this and good agreements with the municipalities where the children live, we're facing a weather scenario, that is. schools that are slow, but will probably lose more and more students. Of course, it will be a threat to professional environments. I'm very concerned that the changes we're going to make here, the parents are going to be aware in good time. That is why we are now talking about changes after the 2013–2014 school year. But many parents with children with disabilities have experienced a life in which they have fought for their children's rights, and they need security and predictability as to what kind of offer it is. What is our strong desire now is that we engage in a good dialogue with the municipality of Bergen on how to cooperate to ensure hearing-impaired students an offer as well as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e655	Some additional questions: why this hastened since there is a big message coming up with the follow-up to the Midlyng Committee's report during this year? Why couldn't one wait until the Storting had a fundamental discussion on this topic? Another question: The Children’s Ombudsman has addressed the Ministry of Knowledge and asked questions about whether children have been heard in this case — it concerns most of the students who have this offer today. Have the children been heard? I register that the parents perceive it so that they have not been heard. The last question is about the financial situation of the municipality of Bergen. The municipality of Bergen now has for five years in cooperation with the Directorate of Education and, on the initiative of the directorate, a new school, Nattland School, which was to include Hunstad School, and where the state was to be the tenant. This work has come very far. As late as January, the regulation plan was adopted in Bergen City Council, and now all of these plans have to be iced up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e664	The last one is definitely not right. We are in dialogue with the municipality of Bergen just to make a good offer to students in the Bergen area and in connection with Nattland, so that this process and this dialogue on how to ensure a good offer for hearing-impaired students in this region, I hope to continue intensely. I am very pleased that the City Council, which has this responsibility, has signalled – after a bit of tumult – that he, on behalf of the municipality of Bergen, is interested in continuing that dialogue. I hope it can come in as constructive a path as possible, and then we can get back to the money issues as such. We come up with a big message during this spring that's just about this – that's absolutely right. But in the preparation of that big message, we are now in the process of many individual institutions and individual environments. It is, of course, to prepare that big message as best as possible and to engage in good dialogue with people. That's the process we're now in the process of doing. So we're talking about changes that are going to happen over the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e675	This question, from the representative Jon Georg Dale to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e678	‘Many municipalities experience that, in many cases, contradictions between the State and the State have contributed to preventing the necessary development of the community. This is also the case in many cases where decisions on local government are unanimous. This means, in effect, that local democracy becomes unnecessarily weak, in favour of more bureaucratic governance. Will the Council consider demarcating the county council's right of reciprocity, thus contributing to more democratic governance and, in particular, to greater local development?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e685	The answer to the question could well be said briefly as follows: No, I am not prepared to do so, because I believe we have a very good system – otherwise the same system as we had when the Progress Party had a great influence on government. We have a very good system of objections in Norway. It is in short that the municipality takes a decision on a matter. In most cases, it becomes exactly as the municipality will, and then we have a superior body, the county, which intervenes if regional or national leadership makes it important to do so. There may well be a situation in which we can see that even if a unanimous local government does something beneficial for that municipality, it may have negative effects on regional and national objectives. Then the countyman is there to object to it. Of the total number of cases that we had in 2009, 2,500, there were 700 cases in which there were objections by the county council. In almost all of them again, a friendly solution can be found locally in the voltage ratio between the municipality and the county. Very, very often we are told that the municipality even says that that solution is going to be better than the original one, because someone else comes in and contributes with their skills and knowledge, and you get a better, not a worse, solution in the municipality than the original one. So from the point of view of 2,500 municipal plans, there were 700 where there was an objection. Of them again, 51 were raised in 2009 as objections to the Ministry of the Environment, and 29 were raised in 2010. The number of issues coming to the Ministry of Environment has been relatively stable over time, regardless of who is in government. But almost all things find a solution, for the benefit of all parties. A small number of cases come in for central treatment. These are matters of general national or regional importance. So all in all, I think we have a very good system that ensures that the first-line service in the municipality gets what it wants in all, most of the cases, but one also has a way of caring for national and regional considerations. It is relatively unbureaucratic, and the number of issues that come up to national level is, as I said, stable over time and quite few.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e694	Of course, I get the answer I expected, but it's not better for that reason. The reality is that what we're looking at in municipalities is that there's a difference between the two, because it's not a good idea to see the totality. I am aware that the Council of State cannot go into individual matters, but between Volda and Ørsta there is an airport, and it is equally far from both city centres to this airport. On one side of the municipal border, business development is permitted. On the other hand, although the distance from the centre is the same, the county has a different definition of the centre from that of the local government in the municipalities in question. It shows that practice is fundamentally different. Since he does not wish to restrict the right of reply, will the Council of State, in any case, consider how he is being treated against the principle of non-discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e703	The Ministry of the Environment is always prepared to look at individual matters if they come from local authorities. It was just supposed to be missing, it's our responsibility to do it. I do not know this matter, but I would warn you in a way to have the attitude that every time there is something to criticize in the system, you criticise the system itself, because there is no guarantee against bad, crazy, and stupid decisions, even decisions that both the questioner and I disagree with. There is no guarantee against it at municipal level, there is no guarantee against it at county level, nor is there any guarantee against it when the matter comes before the Ministry of Environmental Protection. But this is a system that works well, and where you do your best to make it work well. If the sum of this becomes a bad decision, we have to do our utmost to correct it and improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e712	I'm pleased with that direction the Council of State is moving in now. But let me ask you one specific question: who, in the opinion of the Council of State, is best placed to define the centre of a municipality – a collective municipal government or a bureaucrat in the county council department?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e717	Of course, it is the municipality itself that is best suited for it. That's why you always start with the municipality's decision, and in most cases the municipality gets what it wants. Then there are the cases where the municipalities do things that may conflict with regional or national or for the part of global considerations. Then it is the county's duty and responsibility to go into that matter. I also warned a little about this tendency to say a bureaucrat at the county. The county as a civil servant and county council – there is a former county council in the Chamber right now – is responsible for that decision. If the decision is wrong, it's the county council's responsibility and not a nameless bureaucracy. We will never be able to have a system in Norway where there will be no errors in the performance of duties. Some make good and some make less good decisions, but there can't be any reason to say that the whole system is wrong. We have a well-functioning system in this area – better, I think, than most other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e730	‘Veteran organisations and veterans have a high level of competence and experience in the challenges faced by veterans after the end of their service. This is a resource The defense must use and take advantage of. It is important that the veterans feel included and valued also for the basis of experience they have. How far has the cooperation between the Defence and the Veteran organisations come, and what concrete improvements have so far come out of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e737	The veterans are a valuable resource for both defence and society as a whole. They have a unique competence and experience that no one else has. This experience is something society in general should take better advantage of, and at the same time is essential in the follow-up and care of the veterans. Using their experience also helps to give recognition to the veterans. Many veterans still have their daily work in Defense. Their employees’ organisations are therefore also important partners for us in addition to those who would like to be referred to as veterinary organisations. This government has had a significant focus on the situation of the veterans ever since it joined. Several measures have been taken in recent years to strengthen the recognition and rights of veterans. We have also strengthened the apparatus in the defense that follows up the veterans. In this work, organisations are a crucial resource and partner. We have e.g. The eartag 43 million. kr for the rehabilitation of the Swedish Defence Center on Bæria. In this case, I consulted the largest veterinary organizations. In recent years, organisations have become increasingly involved in professional processes, where their competence and experience have been of great benefit. This applies both in the Department and in the Defence. In the work of the Government’s action plan for veterans, organisations are for example: It's very central. Veterinary organisations receive financial support so that they can continue their important work before and with veterans. Among other things, we give support for the peer work of organisations, conferences, information work and other important veteran-related activities. Some organisations have extensive local appliances. This apparatus also contributes to the follow-up and supervision of the Veterans by the Defence. For example, the defense cooperates with the largest Veteran organisation to arrange between 40 and 50 monthly local vets. The Veteran and Employee Organisations have knowledge and experience that we are completely dependent on in the Veteran work. Good cooperation with organisations has contributed greatly to the positive developments in this field in recent years. In the work that remains, organisations will continue to play a central role.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e752	It is gratifying that there is an action plan, but for those who are struggling every day, both psychologically, socially and not least economically, it is terribly far from this action plan. Does the Council have any idea of immediate action to improve their daily lives? And, possibly, what does the Council of State think can be done in advance of an action plan coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e759	I fully agree with the representative that the action plan itself should not entail a postponement of action, and therefore the government has made a number of concrete improvements in ensuring support for and follow-up to the veterans. Therefore, in 2010, we also received a completely new replacement regime for the veterans in order to ensure a better economic follow-up. Also, through other different support measures, defence is at the heart of securing the situation of veterans, providing support and help, and we need to improve this. We need to ensure that the veterans have one door to go through the Defense, where they can get support and help – not only from the Defense, but also where we will have a coordinating role in relation to the Auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e764	I want to go back to it with financial support. I've been in contact with a lot of veterans, and a lot of people experience a daily fight with the Nav system, with their rights – and also with the economy. They always have a short-term payment, where they don't know from month to month how to deal with it. It is probably a load, in addition to the other loads that they are subjected to daily. How — during a transitional period, before the action plan comes — can measures be taken now that can help many who are about to give up this fight?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e774	Our pilot project Østerdalen is aimed at exactly the challenge pointed out by the representative, where ensuring a good, rapid and correct follow-up from the civil auxiliaries is crucial. Both the relationship with Nav, with the municipal health service, municipal health services, etc., are central to this cooperation project. Assistance towards the State pension fund will also be central to this. I would like to stress that with the new replacement regime that we had in place last year, we have a completely different financial framework to help our veterans in relation to what we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e785	‘To solve the major welfare tasks, an open approach to cooperation between the public and private sectors is needed. A judgment in Højesterett concluded that the Foundation Rented dwellings in Alta is subject to the VAT compensation scheme. Afterwards, the Tax Directorate misinterpreted the judgment. It affects, among others: The law of residence Per Skredder's road, which together with the municipality offers to 12 people with mental retardation. In answer to my written question no. 839 for 2010–2011, the Council of State refers to new rounds in the judiciary. Why?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e792	I refer you to the proceedings in the courts, because the right of a joint society to compensation is due to the fact that the housing, assistance and care services can be organised differently. In some cases, the provision of housing forms an integral part of the care service required by law, where housing services and assistance and care services constitute a necessary whole. In other cases, the housing offer is not considered an integral part of the provision that the municipality must make to comply with its statutory obligations. As I pointed out in my reply, the charging authorities, following the judgment in the Supreme Court of the Foundation for Rent in Alta, have taken the view that private activities can be compensated by the rental of certain dwellings. However, it is required that the rental is an integral part of the provision made by the municipality to fulfil its obligations where – as I said – housing and assistance and care services are a necessary whole. Offers that are not an integral part of the provision of care by a legally imposed lucky day will thus fall outside the compensation scheme. In this context, I show that it is a condition under the Compensation Act that a private operator provides a statutory service in the area of health, social or education. Judicial units and housing laws may subsequently fall outside the compensation scheme if the housing offer does not meet the criteria I have mentioned. The more detailed question of what are statutory tasks for the municipality under the Social Services Act has been raised in a case before the courts concerning the right to compensation of a joint enterprise, and I am of course interested in clarifying this through the legal system. The case of the Housing Law Act Per Skredder's road is – as previously stated – processed by the charging authorities, and I think it is right to await that treatment before I give a final answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e803	I have to admit that I find the answer from the Council of State quite perceptive, because there is a Supreme Court judgment here that undoubtedly implies that the various forms of organisation are to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, provided that it is an integral part of the municipality's statutory offer. That is the case with Per Skredder's road. I believe that this case illustrates the need for the Minister of Finance to take political hold on this matter and not to shift responsibility on to the judiciary. The reality of the settlement team that I've taken into account is that they don't have the money to go new rounds in the legal system, because they've also had a threat from the Tax Directorate that they could risk losing the VAT compensation they've already received. Does the Minister for Finance think that this is the right way to treat people with initiative, who make an offer, and who contribute positively to other people in cooperation with the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e812	First of all, the law on compensation that came into force in 2004 — under another government — is correct, but it is the law on which it is based. As I referred to, this case is now at the disposal of the charging authorities, and I want them to finish the case before I might consider whether it is necessary to take a political initiative on the occasion of the case, or on the occasion of similar cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e819	Let me stress that this is a judgment of the Supreme Court. In a letter to the Stortinget from January 2010, where there was a proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Minister of Finance wrote that after the Supreme Court judgment he would carry out a review of the practice of this legislation. It's been a year. Now the Minister of Finance shifts responsibility to the tax authorities, the Tax Directorate, and to new rounds of justice. Here there is a need for a political intersection. There are other examples of similar cases, where the municipality has used private individuals to organise the offer as a housing law, in order to provide a good offer to its citizens. Here it is not private who handle this on their own, it is a collaboration with the municipality. That review the Minister of Finance announced – when is it coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e824	The specific case last year concerned a specific project in Alta, which the Supreme Court ruled on how it should be handled. It is true that I wrote a letter to Stortinget on the occasion of the case. I will of course go through this, but on this specific matter, as the representative Sanner now raises, I will await the treatment of the charging authorities. But I can promise that there will be a more general political discussion of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e833	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e836	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Breivikeidet-Svensby Coloring Service on fv. 91 is high year-round traffic and is used as a bypass when the E6 in Kåfjorden is raging. County Road 91 is also frequently used by travel because tourists get close contact with the mighty Lyngsalpenes. What is the background for Statens vägvesen Region Nord in tender documents setting lower standards for the transport community for the Link in the Lyngen Landscape Protection Area than for similar ferry connections on Helgeland, and that Lyngen is now getting poorer transport quality?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e845	The State Road Administration launched the Breivikeidet-Svensby and Lyngseidet-Olderdalen ferry service for competition as a package in June 2009. The call was in line with the general competition basis used for the call for the national road ferry service. The basis of competition imposes requirements on the environment, universal design and passenger facilities. The connection Breivikeidet-Svensby has a transfer time of 20 minutes, while the transfer time in the link Lyngseidet-Olderdalen is 40 minutes. The requirements of the universal design competition base are stricter for long-distance connections than for short-distance connections, i.e.: connection with a transfer time of less than 25 minutes. In the context of the call for competition of the Breivikeidet-Svensby and Lyngseidet-Olderdalen ferry service, the Swedish Road Administration had contact with local authorities on the requirements of the competitive basis. The Directorate of Road informs us that neither the municipalities concerned nor the county had any comments on timetable proposals. Until 2010, the State Road Administration was the regulatory authority for most ferry services on the public road network. For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007, Regional priority – regional future, and Innst. S. No 166 for 2006–2007, Stortinget concluded that the responsibility for most national road ferry services would be transferred from the State to the county municipalities. One of the main objectives of the administrative reform was to strengthen the role of county councils as regional development actors. The Road Administration decided on the competition in November 2009 but the decision was appealed by one of the operators in December 2009. The responsibility for the Breivikeidet-Svensby ferry service and Lyngseidet-Olderdalen was transferred from the State to the County Municipality in 2010 as a result of the administrative reform. The complaint was therefore sent to Troms County Council as a right party, according to the administrative reform. So it was the County of Troms that finally decided on the tender. The decision of the State Road Administration was upheld by the County of Troms. The majority of ferry services in Helgeland are also now municipal, and several were invited to competition after the county took over the responsibility for the connections. So here it's Nordland County that has set standards. The municipality of Nordland has launched a ferry service at Helgeland after 2010. According to the Swedish Road Administration, some of the published links are longer connected and therefore lighted up with requirements other than the Breivikeidet-Svensby link. In any case, the county council is free to set the requirements they want for roadside connections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e862	I'm not satisfied with the answer, because it's still such that the State Road Administration Region North manages ferry connections in two states in North Norway differently. I think there's good reason to ask questions about it. When everyone thinks that time is moving forward, it's the way that the ferry that's about to start operating these connections represents a step backwards in relation to today's material on the connection. I ask again the question to the Council of State whether he does not see that the State also has a responsibility here for the authorities, the State Road Administration Region North, to practice and apply similar standards. The Councils themselves mentioned the environment, capacity and universal design, which means that the Troms links should also have a forward-looking standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e869	I agree that we should have equal standards as far as possible. At the same time, there is a regulatory framework at the bottom, including: the length of the crossing. And that's what's disabled in this treatment of the Breivikeidet-Svensby connection. The second point I would like to emphasise is that when responsibility has now been transferred from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities, the county councils have the opportunity to set standards for the links for which they are responsible. In this case, the municipality of Trom is responsible for one, and then it is compared with a connection on Helgeland, for which the municipality of Nordland is responsible. In fact, after this reform, the county is free to impose the requirements they want for roadside connections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e876	If I did not hear any errors, the Council of State said in the first answer that the tenders had been made in 2009 – before the transfer to the county municipalities. But I want to travel a different perspective in this, namely that these connections are located in the Lyngen Landscape Protection Area, which is state-determined and determined, and which has very, very strict leadership for how to – I was saying – get in such an area. There are strict limitations on what the local population can do, and what kind of activity you can have there. But even the state has put out tenders, which means that you can use yesterday's holiday equipment, you can use yesterday's technology. It appears that ferries from the West are being sent to North Norway and replaced by gas-powered and more modern ferries in the West. Does the State Council believe it is right to put the environmental technology of yesterday into operation in the Lyngen Landscape Protection Area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e883	It is true that the connection we are talking about up in Lyngen was illuminated by the State Road Administration in 2009, but as a result of changes in the administrative reform, responsibility has been transferred to the municipality of Trom. Through the review procedure, the municipality of Troms has had the final decision, and the proposal of the State Road Administration was maintained by the municipality of Troms County. The second point raised by the representative Aspaker is the environmental requirements of the landscape protection area. I assume, of course, that there are the requirements that are necessary for environmental protection and other requirements that ensure that we do not experience problems in meeting the challenges we face in a landscape protection area. It has to be assumed to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e894	‘2011 is known as both Nansen year and scientific year. In addition, there is a cross-political consensus that climate challenges represent the greatest threat to humanity. It then seems incomprehensible that the country's perhaps leading research institute on climate issues, Nansensenteret in Bergen, is now the only research institute approved by the Research Council that does not have basic government funding. Will the Nansen Council take advantage of the opportunity to remedy this imbalance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e901	As stated, the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the basic appropriations for the environmental institutes, and according to the Norwegian Research Council and my assessment, there has been a need for strengthening the basic appropriations for the environmental institutes under the Ministry of the Environment's budget in recent years. When it comes to the concrete question of the Nansen Institute, I share the questioner's view, that this is a very important institute, which is doing a very important and good job. They have managed well without a basic allocation, without being held against them. They have got a lot without such a grant. It is a very central institute of our research in this area, and it has also played a major role in what can be called the task of public education, which is to make the population aware of climate change. The reason why they have so far received no basic allocation is very simple. It is that we have so far not been able to find room in the budgets for a basic allocation without going down on the other ones that have established programmes. But I share the questioner's view that it would be a nice thing to do this in the Nansen year. I will therefore promise to review this in the context of the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e910	I thank you for the answer, which I choose to interpret positively. I may find it difficult to defend today's situation. Of course, a basic allocation does not constitute the full economy of an institution. In the case of the Nansensenter, the recommendation of the Research Council is a basic allocation of approx. 4.5 million. NOK, which would be approx. 10 pst. by the budget of the institution. The point of a basic allocation is two things. One is that it is a signal from the state that this is an institution that actually deserves a basic allocation. In international comparisons, it may seem strange that some of the most important research we have in this area is not part of – almost speaking – the play on the state crowns. In addition, basic appropriations provide predictability. After all, all the other revenue of the Institute will be project-related and revenue that you have to generate yourself. This is a relatively large organization, so I'll once again encourage the Council of State not only to think about the issue, but actually to do something about the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e921	Without pre-empting budgets, which we of course can never do, I promise to look closely at this issue in the context of the budget – both see if it is possible to increase the budget line, so that the Nansen Centre can enter and, if necessary, look at another distribution if it is not feasible. I share the perception, as I said, that this is a very central center that does a lot of good work. The fact that they are able to obtain funding from other sources is good, positive and, of course, should not be held against them. It can't be that those who are able to do something with other means are not going to get a basic allocation. We're going to look at this with a positive sign, but promising some budgets has always been impossible in the Storting and still is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e930	I understand, of course, that budget leakages are a little early to come with now so early in this process. If I can give an additional argument for a basic grant to the Nansen Centre – which thus provides research in its world-class field, there is no doubt – it must be that more and more of the funds that also benefit Norwegian research come from the EU and allow Norwegian research communities and institutions to participate in EU-funded high-quality projects. The problem with EU funding is that it requires excesses. It is a problem which has become increasingly clear to the whole institutional sector, in any case, also to those receiving basic appropriations. So it's clear that the problem of being able to fund prowess in major international projects is even greater for the Nansen Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e937	I am pleased with the questioner's understanding that it is difficult to promise something even a week before the Torbjørnrud Conference, when we start the budgetary procedure. But, as I said, we need to look at this. I am glad that the matter was raised too, so that I became more explicit about it than I should admit that I was in advance. I've visited the Nansen Centre and I see it as a very solid institution. I also want to say that all research has an international element, but it is clear that there are very few areas of research where it is as important as here. Research on strange climate issues related to the Arctic, for marine areas, our nature, etc. is important, but most of the climate research is international in its nature, and linking to EU research programmes is central. It provides funding to Norway, but it also results in an exchange of knowledge, which is absolutely fundamental to driving the research forward – so we agree on that point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e948	‘Organised crime represents major challenges. On 17 December 2010, the Government presented Report. St. 7 for 2010–2011, The Fight Against Organised Crime. On 7 February 2011, a little over seven weeks later, the Police Directorate is presenting its action plan to combat criminal MC gangs. Kripos refers to these gangs as organized, criminal networks. The Action Plan does not mention this big message in one single word. How will the Council of State ensure the anchoring of strong efforts against organised crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e955	The reason why the government has chosen to focus on strengthening the police's budget and manpower, that we carry out a major DNA reform, establish an effort force, reprisals, and have presented to the Stortinget a message on organised crime, is precisely because organised crime, as the representative describes, is a multi-faceted and comprehensive challenge. Combating organised crime is a priority task and is anchored in central governance documents such as Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 and in the annual management papers of the Ministry of Justice of the Directorate of Police and the Attorney General. In order to achieve effective action in this area, the government has invited the Stortinget to an important debate on what actions in different areas, overall, provide a robust basis for reducing this type of crime in Norway. This is described in more detail in the Storing Message. It also mentions how the government will follow up Storting's treatment of the National Audit Office's report on police and work against organised crime. As far as the action plan against MC crime is concerned, I have been informed that in the spring of 2010, the Police Directorate began to continue reporting on the fight against drug crime by the police, as well as MC and recrime, which was originally developed in 2003 and 2007. They should focus attention on the choice of the right strategies in the police’s response to these forms of crime. In addition to more operational investigations by both Økokrim and Kripos, this material will serve as useful guides to ongoing police and prosecution efforts to combat organised crime in general, and criminal MC environments in particular. The police directorate, POD, has been actively contributing to the process of the poaching. POD, in its work on the report dealing with strategies against MC crime, has been well aware of the preparation of the paper. The Police Directorate will regularly evaluate police work against the various forms of organised crime. This evaluation will be presented to the Ministry of Justice in the Directorate's Annual Report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e968	Thanks for the answer. The background to the question is that I would like to stress that the Right wants to cooperate with the Government in the fight against organised crime. The question comes out of a certain surprise — I might use the word ‘wonder’ — that we get an action plan after the big message has been submitted, where it is not linked and linked. I interpret the Council's answers as wanting to strengthen the focus on a coordinated effort to combat organised crime. My natural follow-up question to the Council of State will therefore be: Is she satisfied with today's situation regarding the anchoring of overall strategies by the Ministry of Justice in relation to the follow-up it receives in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e977	I can stress that the message and action plan are, of course, linked and that POD has played a central role in the preparation of the communication. I am pleased with the strong focus that the representative and the Right want to have on organized crime. In that case, we also stand together on a desire for increased effort. These are forms of crime we strongly want to combat, and where it is also important to ensure a strong follow-up by the police. As the POD also shows, a number of measures have been taken in the wake of the notification submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e984	Today, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have our hearing in connection with the bigotry report on the fight against organised crime. One of the hearing bodies participating in that hearing is the police lawyers. They have made a note to the Committee, where one of the points begins as follows: the police districts do not follow the central leadership and instructions. I repeat that we on the Right want to assist in a joint effort with the government and all other parties in the fight against organised crime and against crime in general. But there we too, as the opposition, are concerned – although we can sometimes discuss political content – that at least we are united on the plans that have been put forward and that the strategies adopted are being fully followed up in the justice sector. So once again, is the Minister of Justice satisfied with the degree of anchoring and with the degree of coherence between strategies and actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e993	This is a strong focus on from the Ministry of Justice's underlying offices. We want a reinforced effort to combat organised crime. So it's probably so that we also see that good professionals, who make a formidable effort, would want them to do even more. We both know about the hearing that's going on in the Justice Committee today. Even I took part in a hearing in the Transport and Communications Committee for a time, where we also discussed, with the involvement of various police organisations, the need to implement new methods, and how. The Data Storage Directive was important for police lawyers. I also want close cooperation with the Right to implement this directive in view of an even better effort to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1009	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1012	‘More major industrial projects can be carried out in Norway, including by Alcoa Aluminium and Ironman. There is a great need for force in common for such projects. The government refuses industry both to build new hydropower plants and to buy existing hydropower plants. The CO2 requirements of the government in setting up new gas power plants render gas power irrelevant for power generation. How does the government think that new industry in Norway should be able to contribute to the realisation of sufficient and reasonable new power generation for its operations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1022	The Government attaches great importance to facilitating adequate force for new projects. This is a key consideration of government policies to improve security of supply. The government is following this with a strong commitment to measures to increase the production of renewable energy, to streamline and limit energy use, and not least to increase investment in networks. Under this government, the bet in all these areas has been greater than under previous governments. Only to give some figures: in the period 2006-2009, new water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity of 3,5 TWh were put into operation. For the previous four-year period, the corresponding figures were only 2.4 TWh. Production from district heating plants supported by Enova in the period 2006-2009 is expected to reach the order of 3 TWh. In the previous four-year period, the corresponding figure was 0.75 TWh. Statnet’s investments in network actions have more than doubled in the years 2006-2009 compared to the previous four-year period. In this context, I would also like to point out that only last year we had several important milestones in energy policy. We put in place a new law on marine energy, which opens up opportunities for an entirely new form of energy in the years to come. We presented plans for progress in key power projects such as Sima – Samnanger and Ørskog – Sogndal. Before Christmas the Swedish and Norwegian Governments signed a protocol for a common certificate market. It provides new perspectives on the development of renewable energy in the two countries. This will be followed up by further measures in years and in years to come. When it comes to securing power for new major projects, I would particularly like to point out the government's commitment to a solid power grid. The further development of the network, combined with the investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency, will provide a significantly better basis than we have had in the past to ensure that major projects are sufficiently powerful. This applies both to the electrification of new projects on the base and to new industrial projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1033	The answer was quite predictable. There's a lot of the same rhetoric that's been before. I remind the Council of State that in the case of green certificates, it was this government that postponed it for five years, it has not accelerated it. The Sea Energy Act itself admitted that the Minister of Energy would not have an impact on power generation in at least ten years. Comparing a project that is being realized now, with projects under the Bondevik II government, I remind you that it takes approx. five years to get a project through bureaucracy. Thus, very few of the 2006 projects are due to red-green policies; this is because we started to see the results of the Bondevik government policy. The correctness shall be correct. Now we know that many new projects need adequate force. The Council of State did not specifically answer the question of how to ensure this for itself, in addition to having to enter the power market, to buy power in the multi-line market. Is it really the government's policy when you're also going to electrify more of the socket, that you have to get into the power market rather than that the industry itself can secure the power generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1040	It is possible for the industry itself to secure power, but the main means of action now must be to ensure that the power we have left over can be made available to projects that do not currently have access to it due to a lack of networks. The main response today is a further development of the network, on which considerable efforts are being made. As I underlined in my previous reply, the government has recently presented major projects that we are planning to implement: both access to the mountain area, Sima-Zomnanger, and the power line northwards from Ørskog-Sogndal. This is a major strategy. In addition, it is important for us to take advantage of all other opportunities to gain power through hydropower, wind power and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1049	I get a little worried because the Council of State avoids the essentials of the question. It is about how industry can secure power in a good way without having to enter the power market and without the mains power supply being the only answer to these kinds of questions. Now oil companies are electrifying more of Norwegian soil because of government policy. One shall extend Snow White. That means more power needs on Melkøya. The same thing applies to the Worm Lange. The same is true for Statfjord. Is it only new power lines that these companies should be able to rely on when they are going to cover this? It would make more sense, in my view, that they had the opportunity, at least, to be able to expand new production where the power demand is present instead of having to go into the market, which means that one has to build more and more networks, which can be controversial. Then my question is to the Council of State: who is to pay for these network investments that industry is forced to accelerate because they are not allowed to build up their own power where the need is?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1058	The challenges we face in the years to come in strengthening and upgrading the transmission systems we have in the country are generated by both the situation in, for example. Middle Norway and the situation in the mountainous region, where consumption is higher than local production. We then need networks that can ensure that we get access to power where there is profit. It is a strategy that is based not only on what industry needs but also on what other market players need. What is my point is that we need to meet these challenges independently of the individual industrial projects mentioned in the question from the representative of Solvik-Olsen. The main response so far is network expansion. And so it is that, in addition, if possible, we are concerned about stimulating other power projects, and not least working on energy efficiency improvement, as we have done on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1068	This question, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will also be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1071	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘There is a strong public interest in the case of the development of a new 420 kV line between Sima and Samnanger. Does the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Norway’s watercourse and electricity services or other agencies have knowledge of distributions or analyses that highlight the current network situation in the Bergens region and that are currently not available for eelmenta?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1080	I have to answer here on behalf of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the documents sent to the Department or made known to them by Statnett, the NVE or other actors in the above-mentioned power line case. The other professional environments must have been developed from material, and that have not moved to the Ministry of Oil and Energy during the procedure, I or the Department of course have no overview of. The powertrain case is of great public interest and the Ministry aims to make the most of the material in this case available to most people. However, a small number of documents would have to be exempted from publication because of information about individuals, business secrets or emergency measures. A note from Statnett dated 27 May 2010 reviewing the operational situation towards the BKK area in winter 2009-2010 is included in the Ministry’s complaint handling of the concession to Sima-Samnanger. This document contains information related to silence, in accordance with the provisions on standby in the power supply. Statnett, at the request of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has assessed more publicity in the document and, on this basis, a version has been developed in which the information relating to silence has been removed. This document is public. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has otherwise a complaint against Statnett's refusal and partial refusal of access to two letters from Statoil to Statnett about the Energy Works Mongstad. State network has refused transparency with reference to confidentiality-related information. This case is treated as a complaint case and is then dealt with in the department in the normal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1093	I thank you for your answer. I want to go back to the last case that the Council of State mentions. After several years of treatment, there are still documents that are not public. I would like to refer to a letter from Johan Fr. Odfjell, an open letter to Statoil dated 28 January 2011, where the question is: ‘Have Statoil, Statoil’s partners or associated consultants conducted any investigations or analyses that would interest the public in the ongoing debate on the Sima-Samsung line?’ We know that the media are looking for more information on this matter. We see it as very important that this information comes out, so that it can give confidence to the decisions to be taken. My question to the Council of State is: Will he make sure that relevant information becomes public in good time before it is decided in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1107	I am not aware that there are a significant number of documents that are excluded from the public service in this case. The reports, the assessments that have been made, include thousands of pages of documents – there are hundreds of documents. There are, I know, a few sections of the documents that are apart from publicity for the reasons that I described in my first answer. It is of great interest on the part of the Ministry to have transparency in the procedure, but there may be situations in which, for reasons of preparedness, there is a need to exempt information from the public for commercial reasons. Those assessments are then given regular treatment in the department, which I underlined in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1114	I thank you for your answer. We see that in selection number. 3 – which is also part of the ring that has now been heard – rejects a claim of urgency in relation to Sima – Samnanger. We see that Statnett and Auke Lont's claim of near-death experience a year ago has been refuted. There's a strong decision coming up in the case, and it's very important that the authorities that are going to give them the time to do so. We know that initially there was a ten-day hearing period. It was extended to three weeks. The minimum requirement for such hearings is six weeks. We're thinking about the big reverse operation that the government did this summer. In my view, it shows an amateur Noreg championship in miserable proceedings and administration. It also shows that there is a need here to get time to come up with a hearing. We know that the Council of State has refused to postpone the hearing period. In the light of new information, will there be a postponement of the hearing period in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1125	I would like to stress that until the concession was granted on 2 July, the Ministry carried out an ordinary concession process in line with all the requirements for such a process. Following a strong desire for a further independent review of the maritime cable option – which I believe was also supported by the representative, Lødemel – and having found a way both to ensure progress and to meet it, the four sample sizes that have come up with their settings, or reports, were now reduced. The committees delivered the reports on 1 February. The hearing was held on 10 February and the deadline for the hearing expired at the latest on Monday. The Ministry evaluates all of these recordings. It can be discussed whether there has been a long enough time for consultation, but one has been busy progressing in the matter. And I think everyone's earned, no matter what kind of situation you want, and what kind of position you have, that you get a clarification of this matter now. This has been the basis for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1136	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: «Another case appears which shows the unreasonableness of the fact that one school owner is to distribute grants to himself and other vocational education. This time, Mr More and Mr Romsdal proposed to cut the subsidy for an established health professional offer in cooperation between the NKS and the University of Public Health, an offer with funding approved by the Directorate of Health. After the complaint it was decided by the Health Directorate that the NKS still had to get the money. What will the Council of State do to clean up and create predictability for the private academics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1145	As is well known, in the context of the administrative reform, Stortinget decided to transfer the financial responsibility for the vocational schools to the county municipalities from 2010. In line with this, funds for specialised schools previously funded by the Ministry of Knowledge budget were transferred to the county councils’ framework grants through the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Funds for specialised schools above the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare were not transferred as a transitional measure to the county councils’ framework grant but were retained as a special grant scheme managed by the Directorate of Health. Through the 2011 government budget, the Stortinget decided to return to the Ministry of Knowledge the allocation to the vocational schools previously under Chapter 6A of the Private School Act, in order to ensure a stable framework and further operation of these schools. The background was that these are schools with a national impact field, which are economically vulnerable, and which differ from the technical and health and social vocational school services. In the case of other specialised schools, the county councils are responsible for the recognition of vocational school provision in the counties, which takes account of both local, regional and national skills needs. The principles governing the distribution of funds to counties relating to vocational schools have not changed with the transfer to the framework of counties. The appropriations for one year are based on the number of students two years earlier, and there is no reduced framework for the vocational schools from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I am responsible for developing the vocational school policy and supervising compliance with the Fachschulegesetz. A system of recognition for new post-secondary school provision has been established in the National Agency for Quality of Education, NOCUT. A new National College Council has been established. Further efforts are being made to establish better statistics and a system of consultation between relevant actors in the field of vocational education. However, I see that there are still challenges related to the management and development of the vocational school field when grants for vocational school education are included in the framework grant to the county municipalities. The representative points to such a challenge in his question. The Forum for Trade Schools, the Adult Education Association, the Norwegian Trade Association and the Norwegian Association for Remote Education and Flexible Education also express concern that the county councils will manage all vocational school education, both the county vocational schools they own, and other private vocational school facilities. I can assure the representative that we are following closely by the state, on the basis that the vocational schools are an important training offer here in the country. Given the current framework of vocational education and training, priority is given to and between vocational schools as a matter of budgetary priority in the individual municipalities – with the system we have today. At national level, changes in funding and frameworks related to specialised schools will be a budgetary issue which of course has to be assessed in the government's proposals for the government budget and the subsequent treatment of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1162	Thank you for the answer, which was not surprising. We are in agreement with the facts. So we can mention that the technical school offer has more challenges than the one I'm pointing at here, because there are some expensive lines and some more reasonable lines. I think we have to get back to that. So the challenge is, as it is now organized in More and Romesdal, that the Fachskolanstyrelsen for Fågskolan i Møre and Romsdal, i.e. the public owned school, will manage all vocational school education, including the private vocational schools in the county. It's going to be a double role. In the past, Telemark took a similar decision, leaving the entire responsibility to one of the colleges. Then the Ministry of Health and Health intervened and said that this could not be done. Will the Council of State look at the organisation in More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1169	I would like to make it clear that it is the county councils that have the overall responsibility. Then it must be up to the county councils to assess how they organise their responsibilities, but it is the county councils that are ultimately responsible at that level. I am fully aware that a little different roles, as you can see in some states, can lead to role conflicts and priority problems because it is an overall responsibility we have to take care of. I have great faith that the county councils are doing this job. It is clear that sometimes they have to have some issues with references to the overall responsibility that they have. But I also believe that both the National College Council, the recognition system that we have in NOKUT, and, not least, our – department and my – supervision of this will work, so that we get a better system for the vocational schools gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1176	I don't think the Council of State and the undersigned fully agree with this inquiry about how we're going to solve this, but I'm very pleased that the Council of State points out that this has to be monitored all the time. It will be very exciting to see what the National College Council can contribute to in this matter. It's the way in politics that we're very concerned about stability and instability. For me, it becomes fundamentally difficult for one school owner to distribute funds on a free basis to both private and public school owners. The principle here is at least we in the Right firmly on, and I will again challenge the Council of State: not least with the background of the episodes we are now seeing, does the Council of State not see that it would perhaps have been better to bring all the university funding back to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1183	The advantage of the county councils being responsible for the vocational schools is that the county councils are also responsible for secondary schools and adult education, while being a regional development expert. That way, they're close to what colleges teach. I believe that they have a very good location in terms of how they can facilitate the provision of vocational education. But it's important that the county councils get involved in what they can and can't do. With regard to the very explicit question raised by the representative, I think it might be reasonable to review whether it is right that it is the same body that distributes money and manages money. We will take a closer look at this in the follow-up to both this case and other matters. I am convinced that the county councils are a very good body to take care of this offer, as long as one realizes that it is an overall offer, and as long as one is able to participate in an important development such as. shall include the health and social vocational schools, the private and the public, as well as the technical vocational schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1196	‘The Vice-Chairman of the reindeer management board shall state to the NRK that it is a prerequisite that the future permanent manager of the reindeer management is in Sami control. Does the Council of State consider it right to set such requirements as a reindeer manager, as this would lead to the exclusion of competent and highly qualified applicants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1203	The sewerage industry is an industry with complex challenges – let me first say it. It's about ecology, it's about economics, and it's about culture within a minority policy framework where Norway has obligations under national and international law. It is about a relatively small but very land-intensive industry that will have its place in Norwegian society, among other things. with ever-increasing competition from other land interests. The senior management position thus represents a central position in a demanding administrative and political landscape and must enjoy general trust independently. It will therefore be essential that the reindeer manager has management experience, a sound understanding of management, a good understanding of political and social conditions, as well as insight into reindeer and cultural aspects. With regard to language competence, it is important that reindeer management as a whole possesses such competence. In the recruitment process we are now entering, it will ultimately focus on an overall assessment based on a number of factors. It is in itself important to put in place a new reindeer manager, and it will be about finding the most suitable, all the different considerations taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1210	I feel that I did not get a complete answer to the question of whether one would like to have a claim that one should be able to speak Sami. If you have to be able to speak Sami, you have to ask yourself what kind of Sami, because there are nine types: it's southern Sami, umesamian, pitesamian, lulesamian, northern Sami, skoltesamian, solitary, kildinsamian, and tersamian. So the question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food is, if you have to be able to speak Sami, which of these nine languages does he want the applicant to have competence in, and how does he intend to choose it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1217	I'll try to elaborate on what I said in my first post, a little bit more. The starting point for the recruitment process is that we need a leader who has confidence in different groups. This leader must have a sound understanding of management and a good understanding of both political and social issues. So it's important, as I see it, that reindeer management as a whole has good linguistic competence. I do not know whether it will cover all the areas mentioned by the representative, but at least one must have good linguistic competence in relation to the needs of the industry. Then there's an overall assessment that will determine who you choose. My starting point is that the reindeer management has such competence, and then we have to find the most suitable manager within that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1224	If I interpret the Council of States correctly, it's not an absolute requirement that you know Sami. It's the administration that's going to decide it in its entirety. I'm very happy about that. As for how many of the Sami people speak Sami, we don't have the SSB's number, but the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund has said that it's only 15 pst. of all the samers who can actually speak Sami. That's why I'm happy about this, and I want to keep up with the employment and make sure that it's not the language that decides, but the competence. Because if you're just going to focus on language, your skills might have to give up next time. We probably have a lot of amazing people who have gone to the agricultural college in Ås, who have good qualifications, but who can't be Sami, who here get the opportunity to apply. So I hope that's how it gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1231	The representative of Tjældal has understood me correctly. What's my point, and I want to underline, is that knowledge of Sami language is important when we talk about the reindeer industry. Therefore, it is also a clear requirement that reindeer management has this competence. When looking for a new leader, we need to be aware of further demands, such as leadership experience, knowledge of political issues, etc. It is no disadvantage that a new manager can be Sami – I would stress this – but the requirement is that the reindeer management should have linguistic competence. We need to find the best leader within the overall specifications we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1242	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Norwegian agriculture is marked by some pessimism. This is due, inter alia, to: a strict regulatory framework providing little room for innovation and opportunities. What will the Council of State do to create a new growth and optimism?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1251	When I hear the representative's questions, it almost sounds as if I believe that the abolition of laws and regulations in agriculture is the solution to the pessimism that he thinks he has registered in the industry. Like the representative, I have registered a certain pessimism among parts of the professionals in agriculture. But I believe that the main root cause of this development and this situation is the lack of income development in the years before the red-green government came to power, and not the legislation we have today to administer. The main agricultural policy objective of the red-green government has therefore been to improve income opportunities for Norwegian food producers. From our first agricultural settlement in 2006 until today, it has been designed to facilitate an income development that is higher than the average for other groups, i.e. in dollars. This is a development that we have to go back to the 1970s to find the husband, and which is important in order to make the farm more competitive and interesting, not only for those who are in the industry, but also in order to ensure recruitment. We are committed to further developing agricultural incomes and welfare policies. To produce enough, safe and varied food of good quality is the most important task that agriculture solves for society. With the abundance of food that we have had here in the country over the last decades of self-produced and imported food, many of us have taken it for granted that in Norway with ‘money on book’ we do not have to worry about changing this situation. According to the World Food Organization (FAO), however, the world’s population will increase by 50 pst. towards 2050. In the same period, it will be necessary to produce 70 pst. more food and 100 pst. more energy. For Norway, the Central Statistical Office estimates that by 2030, i.e. in 20 years' time, it will be 20 pst. several inhabitants. In parallel with a significant increase in the population, there are changes in the climate that we do not know all the consequences of today. This development clearly shows how important it is that we have a high domestic production of food and fibre, which we have been moving away from the importance of over time. From this point of view, I am sure that the role and legitimacy of agriculture will be significantly strengthened in the coming years. This will mean that the farming profession will also have the status it deserves, and this is also fundamental to promoting optimism in the industry. This government will ensure the development of agriculture through good framework conditions — both nationally and internationally. Both the State and the agricultural organisations want a coordinated and comprehensive national agricultural policy designed on the basis of agricultural operations. The state-of-the-art BU funds are examples of an active and active tool to ensure the necessary investment for the renewal and development of traditional agriculture as well as helping to stimulate and facilitate alternative industrial development in the countryside based on regional and local resources. Good examples here are the development of food and travel products with local identity. The red-green government has also reintroduced forest policy after the Bondevik II government, which dramatically reduced forest resources, among others. removed the forest planting premium. Forest and bioenergy appropriations have been strengthened in 2009 and 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1264	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which really didn't give me that much answer to what I asked for. Never before have there been so few farmers, never before have there been so few agricultural estates in operation, never before have there been so many agricultural buildings empty, and never before have there really been so many who want to sell their farm, but because of a law, a regulatory agency, a tax office and not least the approval of a purchase price, these buildings are empty. We have heard that there is about 400,000 people around Norway who are interested in buying some form of farm use, but because of legislation and because of prices etc. Not so many people want to sell. I went to FINN.no last night and saw how many farms were for sale. There weren't many, and there's a reason for that. It's because of the legislation we have, as I said. There is no possibility of another operation on a farm – and another operation may, for example: be farm tourism. Some decoration has been, but there is a lot left. This with partial sales, for example, of a property is completely impossible, because then you weaken the farm's ability to raise income. Before Christmas we had a debate about this with the production and sale of alcoholic beverages, where both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Agriculture were high and said this was positive. Then we come to the big hall to discuss this, and then the parties vote against it. Then you ask the question, what's going on, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1275	Now, the computer system gave the representative some extra time, so if the council also wants some extra time, he gets it. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1278	Thank you for that, President! I would like to stress that when the representative Bredvold points out that there have been major changes in Norwegian agriculture – there are fewer actors, there are several poultry that are empty, which are the concepts used here – there is one side of the picture, which, of course, comes from the fact that there has been a significant productivity development in agriculture, which, together with a regulated market, a limited market, has enabled one to produce the food we need in fewer places. This productivity trend has been higher than in other business and industry. We have actually increased self-sufficiency, increased Norwegian food production in the last ten years, while making it more effective. Then we have some rules that we're concerned about, which are to take care of both the interests of society and the interests of the private. Price adjustments, as the representative Bredvold mentions here, are also available to ensure that young people can enter the industry with framework conditions that allow them to – at an affordable price, an affordable price level. We are more concerned with those who are going into the industry than with those who are going out of the industry, as the representative Bredvold obviously is – through his posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1287	For the youth to come in, there must be someone who is willing to sell, and there is no one who is willing to sell at a price that is too low. That's where a lot of this stops. As I said, there are 400,000 people in Norway who would like to buy a small amount of use, not necessarily just for farming, but perhaps in combination with something else. As I said, there are also many young people among those who want to drive, but there is nothing to get bought, because no one wants to sell. When you also look at the investment ambition that is in agriculture today, it is very low. So it's investing in nothing in buildings. What you invest in are new John Deere tractors, which can be used for other things, for example. for snow ploughing. The new John Deere tractors – just to take an example – go for 50 km/h and can be used for other things. But investment in clean agricultural buildings, for example, which cannot be used for any other later, is more or less the end of it. Then there is a sign of pessimism in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1294	I would like to stress that it is actually a market that works, including in the agricultural sector. It's like, in terms of price adjustments, which is the topic we're talking about most now in this questioning, they've changed. The legislation has changed, the housing value has increased, the price setting framework has increased significantly, so that there are currently few places where this price regulation is fully effective. We've seen an effect of this, and we've reached a point that meets the market we have, and the needs we have. So it's so that it wants to sell property, and it can also be turned to say that it's actually positive that they want to keep their property. It would be strange for me that we are constantly growing them as sellers, instead of growing those who want to be in agriculture, who want to run, and who want to further develop the industry. The price regulation system is there to ensure the entry of young people, to meet social needs and not least to ensure that we continue to operate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1305	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘In the context of the follow-up to the legislation relating to the Norwegian Economic Zone Act, a blacklist of vessels undesirable in the Norwegian zone is drawn up. This is a very good and necessary measure. However, this list is designed in such a way that only the name and history of the vessel are kept, and not the shipping company and who owns it. This means that a company with several boats can fish in the Norwegian zone with another boat or a new boat. Will the Council consider extending the number of data to be recorded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1314	One of the main challenges of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is to track the ownership of the ships involved. Rearers use mail-boxing companies and flags of convenience vessels to hide the real owners. That is why blacklisting measures are directed at the vessel, regardless of who is formally listed as the owner. Owner structures, flag States, operational bases and names are constantly being changed in order to try to conceal the true identity and purpose of vessels. In order to find out the underlying ownership, a significant investigation has to be carried out for each of the ships on the blacklist. Ships and shipping companies are registered in countries that do not cooperate with us on fisheries management and that do not exchange information for us. In some cases, we know the IMO number of the vessels, in which case the Directorate of Fisheries has access to the information on ownership registered in Lloyd’s ship register. The same information is available to anyone who has access to Lloyd’s, but often this information is not up-to-date or does not provide much. In the case of ordinary non-resident vessels fishing in the Norwegian zone, flag States shall provide information on the vessels which also include ownership. The Directorate of Fisheries shall carry out, as far as they can, investigations to verify that the shipowners have not engaged in UUU fishing with other vessels. If it can be found that the owner of the vessel is a company which also owns a ship on the blacklist, he shall not normally be licensed to fish in the Norwegian zone by any vessel. Sometimes we know more about the shipping companies than we do, but since many of the information is uncertain and often changes, we need to be careful about what is published. We also have a duty to ensure legal certainty, so no innocent person is hanged as a UUU hosting. This government has as one of its fancies to bring UUU activities to life. We have made legislative proposals that give us better tools against those who fish illegally, and against the backers who serve on this. The size has supported that work. In order to strengthen efforts against the backers and real owners, the Fisheries Management Analysis Network was established in 2009, as a concrete response to organised crime related to UUU fishing. The project shall ensure closer cooperation between different departments and contribute to up-to-date cross-sectoral analyses in the field of UU-fishing. The project includes, inter alia: focus on illegal capital flows arising from the turnover of black fish and corporate structures that hide the real owners of the ship and the company involved in such activity. In short, we are firmly committed to doing everything we can to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in our own and close waters, but also globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1333	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but my question was different from what the Council of State answered. My question was as follows: Are you willing to expand the number of information on these blacklists? I have picked up the blacklists and picked up also all those with the IMO number, which is where you can track, among other things. owner and many stand without an IMO number. We are also dealing with a matter in the Business Committee precisely related to the Port State Control Agreement, which is also an important instrument in this respect. Neither do you take the rearmen – i.e. the shipowners and that piece – but you focus on ship and ship history. A fishing vessel is just a tool. It's the guy who's serving the gear, which is the problem itself. It's not the ship itself. Therefore, it is important that we can go to the rearmen and at the shipping company and also look at other vessels, so that you can not just switch from one water to another and continue fishing illegally until you are taken again. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State at least look at the possibility of expanding the list to include backers and shipping companies, because that kind of information is incredibly important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1344	It is quite obvious that in the fight against those behind them – because there is no doubt that there are those behind the problem – all stones should be turned around. It is also intended to establish the analytical networks of the fisheries management. It is composed of persons from the Directorate of Police, Ecokrim, the Directorate of Fisheries, the Coast Guard, the Coast Guard, the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Directorate of Taxation. So there we have – as the name says – a network of people from different institutions that can produce knowledge. So it might be that the list of things to be checked is not complementary. I definitely have to look at that. I'll take that with me. But, as I said, the organisations that form the analysis network of the Fisheries Management have at least a very wide range of areas that may then be relevant to study.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1351	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for at least looking at this. I have also discussed this with the business operators themselves and the organisations, and they are also very interested in the backers. The fishing vessels themselves are just a tool. In this context, it is interesting to read one of the points from the blacklist establishment of 27 November 1998 where it says about delisting: ‘There is no opening for de-listing’. It is also quite obvious that when other serious actors want to obtain a fishing vessel just to operate serious fishing activities, and these vessels are not delisted if they come to serious hands, there is a huge problem because they would not be able to get in. They are not only blacklisted in Norway, but under the port State control agreement they will also be delivered to other countries. Will the Council of State be able to look at this particular point, so that serious actors will be able to buy fishing vessels and take them away from the hands of these unprofessional bitches and get them to be legally able to fish instead? But then there has to be a delisting also in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1362	It's obvious that this is an area where we still don't have full knowledge of the effects. Therefore, I must also say that I am very pleased that it now appears that the Progress Party is in line with the government, because when the government was treated Ot.prp. No 98 for 2005-2006, with proposals for new homeowners against owners who operate illegally with one hand and legally with the other, there was a broad opening in this room, with the exception of the Progress Party, who did not think it was a good proposal. I'll definitely take this with me and I'll see if that list is complete. It is quite obvious that it is preferable – to the extent that there is a problem – to ship in a dubious mess into a clean mess. So I'm taking both of these questions with me and I'm going to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1373	Then we move on to more Norwegian conditions. I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘Unfortunately, we have only found that damage to a farm note has occurred in connection with a leaching operation at one of SalMar’s plants on Hitra, which in turn has resulted in approx. 175,000 salmon have escaped. This, of course, is completely unacceptable. Can the Council of States explain which measures it intends to take to prevent this from happening again, or at least to reduce the risk significantly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1382	The evacuation of farmed fish must be avoided – primarily for the sake of wild species, but also for farms and in the utmost consequence for the aquaculture industry as a whole. The industry depends on the legitimacy of the population, of the municipalities, of the authorities, and not least of this room, whether it can exploit the natural potential we have in Norway to produce safe and healthy marine food from a clean sea. It takes the government the most seriously. For this reason, the authorities have a number of measures to prevent escapes. An important instrument is the NYTEK Regulation which imposes technical standards on liquid farms, where new and more stringent requirements have recently been consulted. Furthermore, a Norwegian standard is now under development also for equipment and facilities for seedfish production and for other types of land-based production. In 2010, the Fisheries Directorate increased its budget by 10 million. kr for increased supervision and control of the aquaculture industry. In 2010, the Directorate carried out around 350 inspections of farming facilities. In 2011, the Directorate of Fisheries will pay particular attention to the risk of escape in relation to operations and technical conditions in installations. Here it is, among other things. focused on the incorrect handling of equipment and the follow-up of operations associated with tarpaulin defrosting. But it does not relieve the breeders of the responsibility for the fish keeping inside the mermaids and not outside. The Aquaculture Escape Commission has undertaken systematic efforts to identify important causes of escape and breakdown. The Commission’s work is also valuable by shaping attitudes and disseminating knowledge and experience to suppliers, breeders, management and technical environments. The Escape Commission will be continued, and in the context of continuation and appointment for a new period I will consider adjustments in terms of mandate and composition in order to have an even better impact on the Commission's work. With regard to the specific incident at SalMar, I would like to repeat what I said in my presentation in this room on 17 February – and to a great extent yesterday – that such events are deeply regrettable. The Directorate for Fisheries has not completed its investigations. They expect to have completed this work next week and will then make a decision on further reactions. Secondly, according to the media, the bilgeman in Hitra is parallel to starting an investigation. That's why I don't think it's right to comment on this specific event any more now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1395	For all parts – intentionally or not – the Hitra case has only been used as an example. I do not go into that matter at all. It's going to be completely different levels, and there's a sharp distinction between the prosecution power and the Storting as an organ, so that's not what's the starting point. The starting point is: What new measures should we consider in general terms? One of the measures, such as: the undersigned has discussed with a number of operators in the industry how we can quickly detect it if damage has occurred. For it is not enough to post-release yarn two days after the escape. I would like to ask the Council of State for the following: will the Council consider whether underwater camera monitoring requirements should be imposed in relation to operations related to such vessels, as this would immediately reveal this? Could there be one of the measures that the Council of State can at least look at? Can the Council of State confirm it, or does the Council of State want to proceed with that particular matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1404	We already have strict requirements under the Aquaculture Act for the follow-up of operations. In other words, checking that the plant is in order and that the fish are in the mermaids is already required. There's no need for camera surveillance. Now I've been around a lot of installations and I've seen that it's mostly camera everywhere. You know, it's using a camera for feeding. Whether you have it in that plant, I should not say, but at least it is very often used. If you look into the screen where there's a camera, you'll quickly see if it's fish or not. At least the representative is right. Of course, we're going to go through this and see if we can make any further demands. But at the same time, I have to be allowed to say that unfortunately it does not help how strict the demands we make, and not least how well the technical equipment you have, when it is those who handle it, that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1413	There, I and the Minister are in complete agreement. But the point is to see if a well boat should have a camera in the bow, stern or in the middle below, is that you will at least be able to see if damage occurs, and that this will enable you to take rapid action. Because it's not necessarily that it's only on the plant you need a camera, but during the actual operation — that's on ships that are adjacent to the mermaids. There may be the big problem, because there are sharp objects, you can have propeller damage, etc., and that's important. Something else you should actually think about, is that the situation we had now, happened in the winter months. This means that the extent of damage – at least according to the research – is less than if it had happened in summer, linked to the rise of fish in rivers, etc. Furthermore, I would like to ask the State Council if she can look at the following: Can it make sense to have a refishing fund linked to the rivers, to get farmed salmon that are in the rivers? Will the Council of State initiate increased research into what is happening to escaped fish for the different seasons, and how could this affect?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1422	I sat and listened with half a ear to a question in the Question Time earlier today, and there I heard that the Lord of Spring was drawn in connection with an accident further south, in Oslofjorden, which was a vessel I am responsible for, but on which the Minister of Defence was asked in detail. It's almost so that you can say that the Lord of Springs has been on the team this time as well. As the representative was also inside yesterday, it was lucky that this happened in the winter. Both the Marine Research Institute and a representative of NINA that I met – a well-known wild-tailor – say that this season is actually the best time for the salmon first to escape. I will anyway have it inside the mermaid, both winter, spring, summer and harvest. Yeah, I definitely need to look at that with camera demands. We're going to look at everything and discuss with both directorate and nutrition how we can get even better. I think the most important thing is what's going on with the actors -- what's sitting between people's ears. Awareness-raising is absolutely the most important thing. It's the industry that's good to use, and I hope they get even better at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1431	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-23.ana.ud1412e1443	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
