ParlaMint-DK_20170328130016	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 168 (Proposal for a law on the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities. Bill No. L 169 (Proposal for a law on the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (Europol)). Bruno Jerup (EL) and others: Bill No. L 170 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a digital frame number for bicycles). Jesper Petersen (S) and Dennis Flydtkjær (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on more resources and more years' work for SKAT's fields of action). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Christian Poll (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on public procurement of environmentally friendly textiles). Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 102 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on binding municipal referendums). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 50 (What can the Minister say about the possibilities for psoriasis patients to receive a foot-treatment allowance and will the Minister work to equate these patients with rheumatoid arthritis patients so that they can receive a subsidy for treatment through the public health insurance system?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130202	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 59 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 72 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 59 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 58 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 60 of Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130317	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 57 by Nicolai Wammen (S), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 57 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 55 by Mr Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and motion for a resolution No. V 56 by Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130453	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130517	The vote shall be taken [on the final adoption of the legislative proposal]. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130651	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130708	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Education. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130716	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130718	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. voted 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 6 (ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130801	Does anyone wish to speak? It can be quiet in the hall while you go out. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130836	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130933	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 30 March 2017. It's first, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328130953	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, we have called this question debate for a number of reasons, both because there has been a major debate over a number of years on the issue of indexing the children's cheque, but also, of course, on profit principles. And now there has been a proposal for a revised Regulation 883, which we thought it was appropriate for the parties of the Danish Parliament to have an opportunity to discuss with each other, and we have made a call which reads like this: Will the Minister outline the status of the Liberal Alliance, the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party's promise to establish income principles for children and young people for EU citizens, cf. the joint action •Danish welfare in Europe, the status of introducing an indexing of child and youth benefits for EU citizens and the status of negotiations on this in the context of Regulation 883, as well as what concrete steps has been taken by the government to ensure an agreement on income/indexation? And we are very much looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328131059	Then there is a reply from the Minister for Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328131109	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the two authors for taking the initiative to discuss the important issue of indexing child and youth benefits, which is certainly very much at the heart of the government. I very much appreciate the opportunity to give a status on the government's work on the proposal to amend Regulation 883. As can be seen from the government base, the government's position on the issue of welfare services in Europe is very clear. The government supports the free movement of workers. Freedom of movement is a cornerstone of the internal market and one of the prerequisites for the growth and employment that is so important for Denmark. However, the European Union should not be allowed to go and I do not emphasise the rules relating to freedom of movement must be based on common sense and fairness. We want a European Union where people are looking where jobs are available and not where better social services are available. Therefore, the government also takes the view that welfare benefits should, as far as possible, remain in Denmark and go to those who work, live and contribute in Denmark for a longer period. The government base continues the line that the three current government parties, together with the Danish People's Party, presented before the elections in the joint agreement on Danish welfare in Europe. The line also indicates from the land and proximity note sent to the EUU on 1 February on the proposal to amend Regulation 883 on the coordination of social security systems in the EU that the government is strongly critical of several parts of the European Commission's proposals, for example: the lack of opportunity to index child and youth benefits. It is a prerequisite for popular support for freedom of movement, and hence also for the internal market, that the rules of the people are seen as fair and fair. On the Danish side, we have been working for a long time to ensure that the current set of rules is applied and adapted to the development of EU cooperation. The European Union has become larger and today has greater differences between welfare levels and welfare models than in the past. It is only natural that this is also reflected in the rules. The Government is already critical of several of the existing provisions of the current regulation. I am therefore also pleased that the Commission has now made a proposal in December to revise the rules in a number of areas. Fortunately, we can see that in a number of areas these are proposals that support the Danish wish for more fair, modern and therefore more reasonable rules. At the same time, however, we must note that the Commission's proposal on other essential points has not listened to Denmark. It is disappointing that the European Commission has failed to make use of the opportunity to correct imbalances in the existing regulatory framework by, for example: to allow Member States to index child benefit sent out of the country. It is absolutely essential that the rules prevent inappropriate use, so that there is no imbalance between the Member States. There must be no incentive to speculate on relatively higher benefits and to put unnecessary pressure on social security in some Member States. The rules go too far when children living in another country can receive child benefit at Danish level. That simply does not seem reasonable. As you know, indexation of child and youth benefits, among other things. Following Danish action, part of the agreement reached by the European Council on 19 February last year on a new regime for Great Britain in the EU. It was also part of the agreement on Danish welfare in Europe that we supported Britain in the negotiations on a new regime for them. The discussions prior to Britain's decision to leave the EU clearly show that there are no Treaty matters preventing the indexing of child benefit. As I understand it, the Commission itself uses to differentiate certain benefits for its own staff from where they serve. So it is also administratively possible. As far as I am concerned, it is absolutely crucial that the European Union provides room for different welfare models and that EU rules in the social area are seen as fair. It is not a question of large sums of money, but it is a matter of principle and certainly also of political importance. The Government will therefore continue to work with determination to change the proposal so that Danish children's money should not be given to foreigners living abroad if the cost of living in the country concerned is lower. This will not necessarily be an easy task. Many, including the Commission and several of the new EU countries, are opposed. But it is also a fact that many have not yet taken a position, and there is certainly movement in the debate in Europe. Finally, let me take this opportunity to say a few words about where we are in the negotiations on the Commission's proposal. As I also informed you at the meeting of the European Committee of Parliament on 24 February, the Commission put forward its proposal for the revision of the regulation in December. So the negotiations on the proposal have only just begun. For the first time, I was given the opportunity to exchange views on the proposal with my fellow ministers at the EPSCO meeting on 3 March. Here I made it very clear that Denmark is dissatisfied with the fact that the proposal does not contain the possibility of indexation and that the government will work in a targeted manner to allow the indexing of family benefits to be adapted to the cost of living in the Member State in which the child resides. It was undoubtedly the first of many discussions. The Council meeting left the impression that the Member States are divided on the issue of indexation and that the negotiations are likely to be lengthy. Denmark is probably the most advanced country in the first instance in the desire to introduce a system for indexing child and young people's benefits. In presenting the Commission's proposal in December, it was uncertain whether other countries would follow suit. But since then we have been able to see that there is a positive movement in a large number of countries. Thus, at the Council meeting on 3 March, my colleagues from Austria, Ireland and Germany said clearly to the Commissioner that they want the possibility of indexing child family benefits according to the cost of living in the child's country of residence to be included in the negotiations. This is a very positive development. In the course of the negotiations, we will work closely with like-minded countries in trying to convince several countries of the sense of changing the rules. We will work closely together also within the government that this matter must, if it is to be said, be given priority in order to ensure Danish interests in the best possible way. Overall, I hope that it is clear that in the forthcoming negotiations the government is working with determination to change the proposal so that it will be better able to escape with the wishes of the government and, for that matter, with the wishes expressed by a broad majority of this Parliament in the context of the discussions that we have, among other things, expressed. has been in the Parliament's Committee on Europe. In addition to the actual negotiating meetings of the Council, the government is constantly talking with both the Commission and bilaterally with other countries about our wishes and arguing and working for support for our views. Of course, we are also talking to the European Parliamentarians. I appreciate the interest shown by the Social Democratic Party in the government's work in ensuring the right and fairness of EU rules on the coordination of social security systems. As I have said, the government itself also believes that this is a work that is very important, and we must, of course, keep Parliament informed about the matter in the future. I therefore also wrote on 22 December, immediately after the proposal was tabled, to the circle behind the European political agreement and to the conciliation circle behind the •A safer benefit system and informed all the conciliation parties that the proposal had been tabled. As you know, we have also been invited to examine the proposal on 5 April, and here we can also clarify some of the other parts of the proposal which are not the subject of the discussion here in the Danish Parliament today. However, I would like to stress that I certainly attach the utmost importance to the fact that there is a continuous debate on the momentum of the negotiations on 883, because it has a great deal of political attention in Denmark, but certainly also because we have an independent political interest in the fact that all parties in the Folketing are well and therefore well informed in relation to any progress that may be made and, above all, in order to give an estimate of how the temporal aspect will be in the negotiations that I expect to be lengthy, on Regulation 883.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132055	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132116	Thank you again for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As I explained during the motivation for this question, it has been our wish to use this opportunity in part to have a slightly broader debate on Regulation 883 and the principles of coordination of social security systems in the European Union, but also to hear the government and the rest of the Folketing on how to look at this matter. This is especially so in view of the fact that the current government and the support party in 2015 prior to the election of the Parliament joined forces on the issue of Danish welfare in Europe and that the whole debate at that time in the Danish Parliament was very much marked by the fact that one should say it nicely that one took very lightly how it would be possible to actually introduce indexation, etc. Among other things, you write. in the paper, which states as a programme boost that efforts will be made to review the EU rules on welfare benefits for migrant workers as soon as possible. The audit shall include, inter alia: The aim is to provide greater opportunities for making profit principles, to limit the exportability of welfare services and to allow welfare benefits to be indexed to the cost of living in the country where the benefit is received. And this is the status of these programme boosts that we would like to have a debate on. There is no doubt in social democratic terms that freedom of movement contributes to growth and prosperity in Denmark. At the same time, there is no doubt that the current rules are not up to date. Since Regulation 883 entered into force, the number of EU citizens residing in a Member State other than their country of origin has increased by more than 60%. In Denmark, the number of non-Danish EU citizens has more than doubled. It places great demands on us as a country to have a proper protection against cheating on social services that can undermine the whole foundation of our welfare societies. There are still very, very large differences in living standards in the various EU countries. About half of EU citizens moving to Denmark come from Member States where the minimum wage is at least five times less than the full Danish unemployment benefits. For some, the Danish unemployment benefit is more than ten times the pay they can get in their country of origin. What is important to us here is that we will not accept if Europeans come here only for the purpose of receiving Danish welfare benefits or, incidentally, abusing the Danish welfare society. It kills the support for the political project called the European Union if, as Danes, we see that the social model we have spent so many years building is undermined by EU rules. The critics of this debate will argue that it is blown out of proportion and that there really is no problem. Critics are, in a sense, right to say that today it is not an insurmountable cost to the Treasury, but the principles of Regulation 883 need to be made more up-to-date for two different reasons. Firstly, taking due care when we know that in the future our labour market will undergo an even greater change and will experience an even greater migration of labour. And secondly, and perhaps most importantly, for reasons of fairness. In these years, it is more important than ever that EU rules reflect common sense and feel reasonable for citizens who pay their taxes, cash contributions, etc. for a lifetime. If they feel that the rules are not fair, they will undermine support for the European Union and the principle of the free movement of workers. In this way, the debate on the children's check is about right and fairness. Finally, before I say that I look forward to a good debate, I should like to read out the text of a proposal for the adoption by the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party at least so far. And it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Parliament believes that EU rules must be based on common sense and fairness. The Danish Parliament notes with dissatisfaction that the European Commission has not included indexing of child and youth benefits in its proposal to amend Regulation 883/2004, and the proposal to amend the regulation involves further inappropriateness as an extension of the period of export of benefits to other countries. The Folketing instructs the government to work to create support for the possibility of indexing child and youth benefits. Parliament notes that the Government will keep the parties voting for the proposal informed of the negotiations on the proposal for revision of Regulation 883/04 on an ongoing basis. • V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132532	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132535	When I asked for the floor, it was just to express my pleasure at the understanding of the Social Democratic Party that it should pay to work, that it is important that there is a noticeable difference between what you receive in passive support and what you get by going to work. Perhaps that understanding could also spread to the domestic political debate. That would be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132558	Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132559	Well, that kind of always makes me happy when sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is happy. I would like to say, however, that we have never, in fact, ever expressed a lack of understanding that working should be worthwhile. However, we have had a debate with the Left Party and with other bourgeois parties many times about whether it is further marginal tax cuts that are actually motivating people to go out and take a job or whether they are other things. And then we have had a debate about whether it is really true that there are a lot of people who do not want to work if there is work to be done at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132633	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132634	It would also be strange if you had a working party that did not agree with the Left that it is important that it pays to work. I do not think I need to say anything further, apart from perhaps just one word: a ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132649	Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132651	The Left's view that working should be worthwhile is well known. We disagree with the Left and a number of the other bourgeois parties that the only way to get people to take a job is to cut their benefits and, for that matter, to make even harder demands on them. We also believe that there are other ways. If there is work to be done, it turns out that people actually want to work, and if there are opportunities for further training and retraining, so that people can take the jobs that are, it helps.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132725	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132729	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur, also for having raised this question debate. This is, of course, a very important debate, which I believe we will have several times in this Chamber, and that is certainly necessary. The rapporteur puts it that way, at least, and I think many people will hear it as if foreign workers are coming here to put the trunk in the Danish treasury and not for a perhaps more obvious reason, namely that they want to have a job where they can earn more than they can at home in Poland or Romania. My view now is that this is the last reason why they are coming. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. The rapporteur says that we must have a safeguard against this type of abuse, and then I just ask: what are some EU rules that need to be changed before the rapporteur can say that we now have the protection that the Social Democratic Party wants? Should it be understood that if we get the children's cheque indexed and the Commission's proposal that you can take the daily allowance back for up to 6 months and settle for 3 months, then we are home safe, and then we have no more problems with EU rules in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132834	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132836	Thank you for the question. If the rapporteur has heard my speech in this way, i.e. as a warning against foreign workers coming to Denmark to take up work, I would say that it was not meant to be that way. I have no objection to people coming to Denmark and taking a job if they work on contractual terms and pay the tax they have to pay. However, it is clear that some of the examples we have seen, for example, where there has been speculation in the export of welfare services and where this has exceeded some reasonable considerations, we have a problem with. On the second part of the rapporteur's question, we do not think so. We are preoccupied with the fact that we had a major debate in connection with the Foreign Minister's statement last week about the development of EU cooperation ■ to achieve a better balance in the principles of the free movement of workers against respect for employees' salaries, rights, conditions, etc., because it is a clear matter for the Social Democratic Party, and it is not enough to index the children's cheques or for that matter • the other thing that the rapporteur mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132944	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328132945	Thank you. But then it is just that I ask: what are these rules, apart from the fact that you want to have an indexing of the children's cheque, what can also be, with Enhedslisten's eyes, if I may say, the second best solution to that problem? We can agree on the other. But what are some rules that need to be changed in order to achieve a better balance? I can ask the same question, but in a different way and with a different approach: is it that the rapporteur actually agrees with the bourgeois parties in the presentation that was made and which is also mentioned in the question, to ensure the Danish welfare in Europe? Is it the case that the rapporteur actually agrees with the bourgeois parties in that presentation and that is why a joint proposal for adoption has also been put together today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133032	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133034	No, we are not one to agree with everything that is stated in that paper. We agree with the need to index the children's check. We think that much of the criticism that came from the then opposition parties was unreasonable in relation to what opportunities we as a government had to actually try to change it, and that is also what we think this government is about to true right now. However, we would like to stand together on this adoption because it creates a joint effort to get the fight to change the rules down in the European Union, so that, in the light of some reasonable considerations, we make it impossible for certain welfare benefits to be exported.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133114	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133118	Thank you. In connection with the discussion that work should be worthwhile, I understand that the Socialists also believe that consumers have a responsibility for which companies they choose to use in order to keep wages up to a certain level. In the past, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen called it a mess that the Prime Minister had entered a Ryanair flight. I'd like to ask if it was a mess that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen got into a plane from, I think it was called Wizz Air, here in connection with a football match the other day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133150	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133152	I think it must be up to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to judge whether it was a mess or not. After all, I chose to make that connection in order to avoid flying Ryanair, and I really think that, apart from the fact that I personally should perhaps have been much clearer about what conditions Wizz Air is flying under, it really also underlines the race towards the bottom, which is in the international and, in particular, the European aviation industry, where there is a lack of common EU regulation. We are working for this in the European Union. We are working to prevent companies from doing regulatory shopping, we are working to avoid hiring their employees on zero-hour contracts, and we are also working to ensure that there are fair conditions of competition between all companies. I have nothing against low-cost companies. I just want them to have and fly on collective pay and working conditions, and that has not changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133247	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133249	I don't think it's a mess. I mean, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen can use such a plane. I myself also use Ryanair, just as I have used Uber and other companies against which the Socialists are opposed. I'm just wondering why you can call it a mess when someone else does a certain act while you don't want to apologize for it when you do it yourself, so I just want to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, if he will apologize to the Prime Minister for the fact that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen called it a mess when the Prime Minister used a Ryanair flight when Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen did exactly the same thing here a week ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133319	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133321	I don't know if it's so useful to give a lot of excuses. I also think there was the fact that Ryanair was in fact and had been selected for a labour dispute with the Danish trade union movement, for example, and that it happened just after. Having said that, however, I would like to say that I think it is very clear in the media too. And I also think it is very clear that I myself am more than just sorry about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133352	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133355	Thank you. So from one question and then to a more fundamental political question which is about today's question debate. In principle, if a citizen from another EU country comes to Denmark, gets a job, pays taxes and thus contributes to society, the rapporteur then believes that that person is also right on equal terms with others who live in our society, pay taxes in our society, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133426	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133428	Yes, I mean that in principle with the very big thing, but that there are, of course, a number of the welfare schemes that we have made in Denmark, which are in all possible ways more comprehensive, more generous, taking into account some other things than you see in a large number of other EU countries. I believe that it goes beyond what I would call the principles of fairness if it is possible for foreign workers to come here, pay their taxes, get the children's cheques, the children's allowance and young people's allowance, then send it back to the country where they come from, where it is, you have a different level of expenditure for, for example, the cost of having children, the cost of sending children to day care centres, etc., and that is why we are in favour of indexing the children's cheque.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133516	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133518	But does the rapporteur not also see that there is a challenge in coming as a citizen from another country, France, for example, to get a job and pay your taxes, but that your children live in France, so that you do not use a doctor, do not use a school, do not use all the other parts of our welfare society, and then we go in and think that this is the quite wide-ranging and biggest problem? We have discussed this in the past in connection with B 48 and a number of times in the Committee on European Affairs, and here again we have a major debate on it as if it were one of the most pressing issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133553	At the same time, however, the citizens still have the right to take advantage of these things, in other words our various welfare benefits, and they are also free to take their children to Denmark under the principles of the free movement of workers. And in this respect, I would not mind if they had a child's check to pay for the children's subsistence. I think that this should be given a great deal of attention, and in fact I think that the rapporteur and I agree with that, perhaps just with different starting points. When we are in favour of indexing the children's cheque, it is really an attempt to defend the principle of the free movement of workers, because if it goes beyond general considerations of fairness, I think it will be seen that support falls within the population. And I think that would actually be really, really harmful, both for our economy, but indeed also for our ability to move freely and take a job in those countries where the work may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133652	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur at this stage. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328133702	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen for asking this question. It is always interesting to have a question where we discuss the children's check. To make it quite clear, Dansk Folkeparti does not believe that you should be able to send the children's cheque out of Denmark. It is for the children and parents who are in Denmark for the expenses they have in Denmark. Having said that, we think it appropriate that, if you are forced to send out the children's check, and you are a little bit because of EU rules, it should also reflect what purchasing power is in the country where they receive it. Because it should be the case that for example. a Bulgarian who works in Denmark and has a wife and children at home in Bulgaria, it is Bulgaria that pays the child contribution. It is not the Bulgarian who works in Denmark that must have the children's check and send it home. If you have a child between 0 and 2 years of age, you are paid DKK 17.880 here in Denmark. Every three months as a children's check, and if it is to be indexed according to purchasing power, that would be like sending only 6,180 DKK. Bulgaria every three months. But today 17,880 kroner will be sent. to Bulgaria every three months or it's a year, I don't even know that. I'm sorry, I'm not allowed to swear, I'm sorry, President. But if you take the example of the 17,880 kr. Why should they send so much money home to Bulgaria and actually benefit from not having the children here in Denmark and getting a large children's check for maintenance that can be sent home to Bulgaria? We do not think that is right and proper. It must be the case that, if we are to send the money out of the country, it is indexed according to purchasing power. The same applies to almost all Eastern European countries that are part of the European Union. In general, we also believe that it should apply to all EU countries that the children's cheques should be indexed, and in this respect we can see that there has been an increase. I mentioned these DKK 17,880, and at 2017 level it is DKK 17,964. This means that you can see an increase and an improvement in conditions, namely that the more you earn in Denmark, the greater the check you can send home. We have also seen examples of an employer who makes payments to his employees saying: You may not get that much in pay, but we will help you have the children's cheque sent home; it is tax-free and it means a lot. It is not right and proper that this should be the case. As far as the regulation is concerned, the Minister from the platform has said that there is support from Germany and I understand that there is also from Austria to make an indexing of the children's cheque. Then it has to be that you really go in and do it, and I would have liked the Minister to have said: well, let us make legislation on this in Denmark and try to get it approved by the European Court of Justice; instead of the Minister saying that we may not do so and that we may have to wait until we may have agreed to index it. Then go and make legislation, and then take a test case and see what the EU says about it, to get clean lines. I think that is actually right and proper, but the Minister can answer that later when he comes up here, so why not test that possibility. Because apparently there will be a large majority in favour of this if the Minister comes up with a bill to index child pay. There's no problem with that. In the Danish People's Party we add votes, and I understand the Social Democracy does, so the majority is at home. Why don't you try the case and see what happens? In this way, it is also putting more pressure on the European Union that there is a case here that means a lot to Denmark, and it must of course be put in place when the Minister comes down to the European Union. I think it is a good thing that, after all, there is no refusal from the government to index the children's cheque in advance. I have to say that, of course, we support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. Then I should like to apologize for saying at the beginning that the DKK 17.880. was for 3 months when it is for 1 year. It is in order to avoid misunderstandings. However, we support the proposal for adoption and hope that the Minister is ready to take a little harder action and put more pressure on the European Union by trying to make legislation and then with it in his hand see if it cannot have an effect on the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134233	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134237	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I thought that was a fresh idea, we're on the Enhedslisten. After all, we believe that indexing the children's cheque is the second best solution when we cannot get what is actually in Danish legislation. We are in favour of this, so I can only urge that we perhaps talk about a small text. Because I think that some of what can boost the EU system shows Brexit is that the countries are starting to decide for themselves. Then there's a little push on the system, so we're on it from the Enhedslisten side. What I want to ask you is that I believe the Danish People's Party is also involved in Danish Welfare in Europe, i.e. this one-and-a-half-page agreement, which was signed a few years ago, and where among other things. • In Denmark we will: Introduce profit principles where possible based on a complete mapping of Danish welfare benefits to which other EU citizens may be entitled without any longer stay or employment in Denmark. It is therefore a desire or a requirement to introduce profit principles. How's it going?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134344	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134345	Well, last week, an agreement was reached on profit principles for six years, so that goes in the right direction. But that, sir. Finn Sørensen refers to the fact that this principle is for third-country nationals. It is going in the right direction that it has been extended to six years, and we would also like to see there being profit principles for EU citizens. Of course, you have to remember that there is a difference between a family who comes up here and settles with children and everything, because then the money will not be sent out of the country. Then they get the money for the consumption there is. But I think it would be fair enough also to look at profit principles for those who come to Denmark and settle down. How this is going to work and whether we can make an agreement for EU citizens too, I cannot say at this stage. But I'll take sir. Finn Sørensen's offer to try to make a resolution on indexing child pay. Let's just talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134501	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134502	Thank you. We will then have to work on that. The rapporteur himself said so, in other words, in relation to the principle of income that has been introduced recently and tightened up and done so. This has been done in many other areas by this government, and it has all been on third-country nationals. What I was asking was the ambition to introduce profit principles for migrant workers. And that's what I'm asking you. How's it going? And when the rapporteur cannot answer that, it is because nothing is happening in this area. So I ask, why is nothing happening in this field? Why has the blue majority, as is now the case, not implemented profit principles for migrant workers from EU and EEA countries, as was said to be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134548	Now I was not in the negotiations, but I would guess that it is because the Danish People's Party cannot convince the government that the principles for EU citizens should be introduced. I guess that's what I'm gonna guess. However, I do not know how the debate is going in that area. It is probably our EU rapporteur that we need to get on the ground there to know how things are going. But we still have a desire to introduce profit principles, there are no changes there. But that requires a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134621	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134624	Thank you. These are, in fact, very fundamental political issues that we are discussing here today, precisely whether, if you pay taxes in Denmark, you are entitled to the welfare benefits that we have. So I go on a little thought journey and say, if I buy the principle: now we are playing that we have an income for the migrant worker; a person has lived here for six years and paid tax month after month, while his children are still living in France or Germany. How long should we have earned in order to be allowed to take part in the welfare benefits that we have as part of our system and to which the citizens pay taxes and to which the citizens actually contribute and do not make so much use, as the children do not go to school, go to the doctor, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134716	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134717	Well, now it is the case that the children will probably go to school and to a doctor in the country where they live, and that is the country that will have to pay the children's check if they have that scheme. It should not be Denmark's problem that someone works in Denmark and then has a wife and children to live at home. We are opposed to the children's cheque being sent to the country from which you come, whether it be Bulgaria or France, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned earlier. It must be the country itself that pays to the children who live in their country. Just because you work in another country doesn't mean you should have a child's check sent home. We do not think so at all. There must be payment in the country where the children live and it must come from the country in which the children live.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134809	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134810	This isn't just about work. This is about contributing to society by paying tax every month of the salary you get. So does this mean that the rapporteur believes that, although it is a taxpayer in Denmark, one who contributes to the Danish society is another country and the other country's taxpayers who are responsible for the children? I mean, it's so staggered who's gonna be responsible for these kids' money. Is it reasonable for the taxpayers of France to pay to the children who live in France, even though the society to which the taxpayer contributes is Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134847	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134849	Now it can be difficult if you do not remember all the rules, but we do have a common agreement with, among others. France on taxation. That's what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist that we don't, and that's so okay.I'm not gonna make myself smart here. But in principle you have to earn from the salary you earn and the child's cheque you earn is paid in Denmark. If you bring the family and you bring the children with you in Denmark, you have the right to have it, but it should not be Denmark that should send a child's check to another country. If it is Bulgaria that I mentioned here, it must be Bulgaria that pays the children's cheques to the children who live there at home in their own country. It is not intended to benefit from social benefits here. We are therefore opposed to sending the check out of Denmark, and we would also like to have profit principles. And then Bulgaria or France must pay child checks to the children they have in that country so that they can benefit from their health care. I'm sure they already do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328134953	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135005	Thank you. The Left is, has always been, and will always be, strong supporters of the free movement of workers, because freedom of movement is one of the cornerstones of the internal market. It is an essential prerequisite for Denmark's growth and prosperity. And it's not just about growth and prosperity... money. It is also about Danes who, out of necessity, go to another country to find work, have the opportunity. Around the crisis there were quite a lot of Jutlandian craftsmen who took work in Germany. The order book at home in Denmark was empty, so Germany is close. It is cheaper to get there than, for example, to Copenhagen, and there were quite a lot of Jutlanders who worked in Germany. But it may also be the desire that drives the work, the opportunity to get work in Brussels, Barcelona or Berlin, not because you have to, but because you want to try hard with it for a few years. We think that is very, very positive. And even if the dream of Europe never comes true and you never get over the domestic duck pond, we believe that just the fact that you have the opportunity is quite, quite important. But the free movement of workers is precisely about the free movement of workers and not about the free movement of aid recipients. It is a question of having the opportunity to find work and provide for yourself in another EU country than where you live. For this reason, it has also been the wish of the Left for some time now that we should be able to index the children's cheque for EU citizens who come to Denmark as migrant workers and therefore send the child benefit home to their children who are staying in their country of origin. It is simply neither right nor proper for a foreign worker to be able to send child benefit home to a country where the cost of living and the price level are considerably lower than in Denmark, unless this indexation occurs. It is therefore much cheaper to have children in Romania than it is to have children in Denmark. It is true, then, that the number of foreign nationals sending the children's cheque home to their country of origin is not so alarmingly high if we look at the challenges of the Treasury. It is not the case that when we change the rules for children's cheques, it will result in a billion-dollar saving in the Danish Treasury which will enable us to do everything possible. We're talking about a million-dollar problem, not a billion-dollar problem. But the only thing that matters is not how much money it is about, because it is also about fairness and fairness. It is about creating an EU cooperation where there is room for different welfare models and where there is room for rules that are seen as fair for all the peoples of Europe, including, of course, first and foremost the Danish people. I think it is worth noting that the issue of indexing child and young people's benefits is not only a debate here in Denmark. This was one of the things that was included in the agreement negotiated by the United Kingdom prior to Brexit. And if it had been remain instead of leave, we would have had this indexation option here in Denmark as well. So there is nothing contrary to the Treaty or fundamentally impossible by introducing the indexation that the Left wants. The agreement before Brexit clearly shows this. So not all countries look the same on this question. The Eastern European countries have a different view than we have, and that is no wonder. So the government has to fight. The government must fight a hard fight and it will be a slow and laborious process, but we have a hope that it will succeed and we will come to the other end of a victory. I am sure that our minister and also our skilled officials are working very hard to meet the government's ambitions for a more reasonable framework for the children's check. See, this weekend European cooperation turned a sharp corner. It was 60 years ago that the Treaty of Rome was signed, and on that occasion I and several others were spreading out about how good it is that we have the European Union and that, if we did not have the European Union, we should hurry to get it invented. Of course, as pro-Europeans, we must also be able to take a critical view of those aspects of cooperation that do not work. There is nothing weird about that, we do so in all other political contexts: Parliament, the municipal council, the regional council, so why should we not also do so in the European Union and change the things that do not work properly for something better? For it is simply a prerequisite for continuing popular support for free movement and the internal market that we have rules that the Danes feel and experience as fair and fair. That is why I really hope that everyone, including those who unfortunately cannot support the proposal for adoption here today, will work together to resolve this problem so that we can ensure the continued support for European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135515	Thank you. Then there are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135520	Thank you. Indeed, as the rapporteur says, there is every reason to wish the European Union project and, for that matter, also the free movement of workers happy birthday, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen does. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is in his speech as he often is, and I think that is very, very nice and very excited about the whole EU project. And we also share the whole objective of solving this problem. But Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen does not admit that the demands that were made during the last period of government, after Denmark received a recommendation from the Commission on the principle of profit, that one could simply break EU law, were both irresponsible and wrong in terms of historical spectacles at that time. Jan E. Jørgensen is on the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135611	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135612	I don't want to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135620	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135621	Why, then, does the rapporteur not want to deal with this? He was in the Folketing during the period. There was a presentation, "Danish welfare in Europe', which claimed that it was only possible to introduce the principle of income. It was a demand from the current Prime Minister that Denmark could simply break EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135644	But I can quote my party colleague, the Minister for the Environment and Food, and say: 'Well, I just don't want to do that.'
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135654	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135657	Excuse me, but this is just too thin. I'm trying to ask you another way. In 2014, when we had a Social Democratic government, there was a majority that instructed the government to administer according to the income principle in the case of Danish child pay. The principle was contrary to Union law. That is why the government did at the time that it was not possible to follow the decision because it did not want to make legislation that went against EU law. Now I have to ask the rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the Left, the Left, who is the head of the government: will the Left and will the government make legislation that goes against EU law? It's just saying yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135735	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135739	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135742	It was much clearer than that answer, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen got. That also means that the Left would do well when they were in opposition, but they will not do so now that they are in government. Social democracy is often told by the Left that when they are an opposition party they are one and when they are in government they are another party. In other words, the rapporteur must agree with me that when the Left is in opposition, one wants to legislate against EU law, but one does not want to do so when one is in government. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135812	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135813	The short answer is no. The longer answer is no, not at all. For at that time there was a different assessment of whether or not it was in keeping with EU law. You can then see in the unbearable light of hindsight that that assessment was wrong. Anyway, that's the way it is. After all, it was not because the Left deliberately ordered someone to break EU law at the time. I think the Social Democrats are aware of this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135842	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135844	Thank you. Does this mean that the Left is prepared to apologize to the previous government and to the previous majority of the parliament? Because at that time the Thorning Government was prepared to overthrow the Thorning Government because the Thorning Government did not want to administer the children's check in accordance with the legislation adopted by the VK Government, and which, after all, introduced rather strict profit principles in order to be entitled to child checks. That was when they were ready to overthrow the Thorning government. So either you have to apologize now because you were so high in the hat at the time, or you have to be prepared to overthrow the current government, because it administers completely in the same way as the Thorning Government, which is contrary to the current law on profit principles. So would the rapporteur please choose between the two options?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135939	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328135940	I heard it as three options. It was also an opportunity that I could help overthrow the current government. I don't think that's gonna surprise you, sir. Finn Sørensen, when I say I'm not ready for that. On the question of whether to apologize, it was Mr. Rasmus Jarlov also mentioned earlier I do not think that this is surprising. Finn Sørensen, when I say we're not ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140006	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140007	Well then, what you are saying is not really connected, because in 2014 the blue parties were ready to overthrow the Thorning government because it did not manage the children's check in accordance with the law introduced by the VK government. But the current government is doing exactly the same. Why, then, are we not prepared to overthrow the current government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140034	I understand what Mr. Kim has to say. Finn Sørensen says. I do. That is quite clear, and I believe that Mr Beazley's report is a good one. Finn Sørensen understands why I am not ready to overthrow a government with my own party colleague in the lead as Prime Minister. That would be a hell of a weird sight.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140053	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140104	Thank you. If we are to solve a problem, we need to find the basic reason why the problem is there, and the root cause of the problems we are discussing here are some provisions of the EU Treaty, in particular provisions relating to the rules of the internal market. Because these are the rules that mean that we have been deprived of the opportunity to decide for ourselves who should have access to the welfare benefits we have in this country and whether these welfare benefits should be able to be taken out of the country. These rules also mean that we have been deprived of some important tools to ensure that the workers who come here work here on equal terms, i.e. the problem we usually call social dumping. And there is the whole story of the children's check after all the classic example of the first part of the welfare benefits. Because the original Danish law on the children's cheque says loud and clear that if you are taxable in this country and the children are staying here, you have the right to have a child's check. Then there were a few exceptions to the possibility of taking it out of the country, for example. if the children were to study, some very reasonable principles that the Danish Parliament has agreed on for years. The European Union has just decided otherwise. For the EU has decided that if you obtain the status of a migrant worker and you can do that with 10 hours of work a week for a few weeks, you are entitled to the full child's check and you also have the right to take it out of the country. It is the European Union that has decided this, not the Danish Parliament, and it is contrary to the legislation on the children's cheque that we adopted many, many years ago in this country. Then the VK government introduced some profit principles, but it would not respect the principle of aggregation, which says that if there are profit principles for a benefit, the periods spent by the migrant worker in other EU countries should be taken into account. This would not be respected by the VK government, despite the fact that it was reasonably clear that it was contrary to EU rules. Then the Thorning government came to, and I do not know whether they are more or less EU-loyal, but they certainly did not dare to administer in violation of EU rules, so they aligned themselves with the principles of profit and aggregation of periods, with the result that they came to administer in violation of the legislation made by the VK government, a basis on which the blue parties then threatened to overthrow the Thorning government. Then it happened that a majority ordered the Thorning Government to comply with what was in the legislative text, and Enhedslisten was part of that majority. It was not because we agreed with the legislative text, but because we believe that Danish law should be higher than EU law, and the Thorning Government would still not, unless a legislative proposal was adopted. Then Enhedslisten put forward a bill that exactly described the principles that were in Danish legislation on the children's check from the start. No one else would vote for that. Yes, I believe that the Danish People's Party voted in favour of it, but the others did not, some because it was contrary to EU rules, and others because they absolutely wanted some profit principles. Then the Thorning government continued to administer in violation of this legislation adopted by the VK government, and so does the current government, despite threatening to overthrow the Thorning government on exactly that basis. What does all this show? It shows, of course, that the root of the evil is some parties that cannot quite find out whether they want to challenge EU law or what they want, and that is a problem in itself. But the basic problem is that it is some others who have laid down the rules for which we administer the children's check, and I think that should be borne in mind. Then there is the matter of indexing the children's cheque, and yes, that is the second best solution if we cannot have those principles. But that does not solve the problem, because the rules on welfare benefits apply to all of them. As far as social dumping is concerned, we have mentioned this many times, but the Court has prevented us from demanding that posted companies should fully comply with Danish agreements and make a conflict in order to get through it. We do not have the opportunity to ensure that migrant workers live up to exactly the same pay and working conditions when they enter the country, a simple and reasonable thing that we use in relation to workers from third countries, namely to demand a work and residence permit on which there is a contract of employment as a basis. Even such a modest demand must not be made for the European Union. So will it not be enough to say in the further discussion that it is some EU rules that prevent us from deciding for ourselves in this relationship, and they are the ones that are causing the problems? Therefore, I would like to read out a small proposal for adoption which reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that EU rules prevent the Danish Parliament from determining the rules for access by migrant workers to Danish welfare benefits and daily allowances, and that EU rules deprive us of the necessary tools to ensure equal conditions for both foreign and Danish workers. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to use the negotiations for a revision of Regulation 883 to raise the demand to the other Heads of Government for a Danish derogation in this area. • V 62).
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140634	It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Amager.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140642	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. The rapporteur comes up with a call for all the parties of the Folketing just to realise and accept that the reason for all this morass and all these hardships and all sorts of other things is that EU law prevents it. I'd like to acknowledge that. That is what has been the starting point of social democracy all the way through. We have thus admitted that there have been challenges in relation to EU law, while at the same time recognising, as this system has been established, that in many respects EU law takes precedence over Danish law. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen not only admit that it has been the position of the Social Democratic Party all the time and that it is actually over on the other side of the House that we have to look at the changes in attitudes that have occurred over recent years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140740	I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur has recognised this, and I think that in itself is a step forward when we look at the Social Democrats' arguments in this area, which I have been following for a very long time, for good reasons also more than the questioner. So it is gratifying that we have come so far that we find that it is the EU rules that are the problem in this area. Then I just miss some greater ambition in terms of getting us some more self-determination here in the Danish Parliament over the rules. That is my point to the Social Democratic Party and to the proposal we have put forward for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140818	Well, those ambitions are discussed by the rapporteur and I quite often, and I would like to keep on discussing that. But what distinguishes the Enhedslisten from the Social Democratic Party is precisely that the Social Democrats do not want Denmark to resign from the European Union, and so we wholeheartedly support the principle of the free movement of workers with the challenges it also presents. But I think we share the ambition that we should not compromise on collective pay and working conditions and employees' rights, etc. In a broader sense, this is the whole issue we have been trying to raise in this question debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140857	If the questioner had listened a little, he would have heard that there was no mention of withdrawal from the EU in the proposal for adoption we made. It was a proposal that we should have an exception to the provisions of the Treaty in these areas, and although there is no agreement in the Danish Parliament on the concrete solutions, I am nevertheless very unhappy that there are some things we cannot decide for ourselves. However, if it is to be understood in this way that the Social Democratic Party is in the process of a shift, so that we can have a more offensive partner in our efforts to change EU rules in this area, then I will look forward to, for example. that the Social Democrats will be quite clear that they will, of course, support the demand for a social protocol and that, in the situation where Mrs Mette Frederiksen or another social democrat becomes Prime Minister, we make that demand to the other Heads of Government of the European Union. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328140954	Time's well gone. There are also no further brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141004	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Social Democrats for raising this question debate, which is actually, I think, a very important debate. In the Liberal Alliance, we strongly support the principle of the free movement of workers. The freedom to settle in another European country, to take a job, to live and to learn about life outside the borders of one's own country, is an absolute benefit for every European citizen. We must safeguard that freedom, not only for the sake of the individual, but also because it is a very great advantage for our companies that they can recruit employees across European borders without too much effort. However, the right to take a job in another country should not automatically be the same as the right to raise the same welfare check in other European countries. There must be room for diversity within the framework of European cooperation, and there is a great difference in how we have arranged our welfare services, from north to south, east and west in Europe and that is how it should be. When it is experienced that e.g. Children's cheques circulate across national borders, challenge Europe's cohesion, and I am concerned that in the long term it can challenge support for the very principle of the free movement of workers. That is why we need to reform the rules. There is a need to separate the right to take work in another country from the right to receive cash welfare benefits in another country if we want to ensure the free movement of workers, and we do so in the Liberal Alliance. That is why we also believe that the Folketing should support the government in its efforts to negotiate Regulation 883 where we will be able to index the children's cheque to the cost level in each country. Frankly, it is simply taking stock of reality, because the reality is that there is a huge difference in the cost of living in individual European countries, and of course the payments must reflect that. If the government succeeds in negotiating Regulation 883 in that direction, such as: Liberal Alliance, but also our colleagues in the blue bloc and in other parties agree, I am sure that some of the political wind that is in Europe, about the free movement of labour itself, will decrease. This would be a good step on the way to reformed, future-proof European cooperation. Perhaps it can also dismantle parts of the attempts of national populist movements to destabilise work, and that is what is needed. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the debate with my good colleague in the Left. Jan E. Jørgensen, on the previous position of the blue parties in this matter. It was argued as something crazy that in 2014 you were ready to overthrow a Social Democratic government, and it is just right for no one to be in doubt: we have been ready to overthrow a Social Democratic government in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, and we will also be forward-looking, just so there is no doubt about it. If you just have to be serious for a moment: there is a difference between the situation then and now. At that time, the situation was that there was this regulation, 883, which was not under discussion in Brussels. It is today. And it is true that we were some, including myself and my party and others, who were shouting loudly and perhaps too loud, but we were shouting loudly and so that we have now opened a debate on these rules. This was also the case when it was, as it were, put at the forefront of Britain's debate on leaving. And it is clear that if, by shouting loudly, one were to open up a dialogue to change things, it would be strange if we went out and broke EU law. It is also just to say that we can tease each other that you mean something different when you sit in government than you did before, but there is just another negotiating situation now than there was then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141358	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141405	There's no difference. The criticism made by the bourgeois parties was that the Thorning government would not follow the text of the legislation of the VK government on the children's cheque, namely the income requirement for entitlement to the children's check, in which the legislation of the VK government excludes what EU law says, namely that you can introduce all the profit principles you want, but you just have to accept the principle of aggregation, that is, the periods that the citizen has spent in other EU countries. But the situation is exactly the same now. The legal text has not been amended and the present government has from day one also been named Lars Løkke Rasussen I, or whatever the first government was also administered in violation of it. So there's no difference. And then it is quite natural that we should ask whether there has been a change of attitude in the blue parties, that is to say that it was right that we should not manage as we should, because we should not do so for the European Union or where we stand? Well, it's fair to answer it, otherwise it's just such a nonsense. Then you threaten and scold because you're not in government yourself. And then when you sit there, you do exactly the same thing, and suddenly it's right to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141531	But it is perfectly reasonable to answer it, and I would very much like to do so. Sir. Finn Sørensen is quite right that today, as in 2014, EU law is administered according to the current principle of profit, not according to the then VK government. That is absolutely right. I agree with that. It would be weird to question the facts. But what is the difference, and what I said is the difference, is that today there is a debate in Brussels on this regulation. That is what the Minister for Employment said in his reply, namely that these rules are in fact being negotiated. Even if it is because the blue parties have shouted aloud in Denmark alone, I do not think so, and I think that would be too full, but there are negotiations on this regulation, and that is the whole difference. I also believe that some of what has opened up the negotiations is that in the negotiations with Great Britain on a new agreement for Britain, we had to open it up on the basis of political pressure. Now there is a negotiating situation, and that is, of course, a different position, even for Denmark, than when there is no open debate. That's what's new. However, I do not dispute that EU law is currently being administered. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141640	Thank you. It was always something. It would not be admitted at the time that it was contrary to EU law to change a way of administering the law. If it was administered, as the VK government had written the law, it was not, according to the blue parties, but one then recognizes that it will be. I would just like to say that it has nothing to do with the argument put forward at the time. It was a very fundamental argument that law is law and law must be kept. That is also why the Enhedslisten voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the Conservatives, because we agree that the adopted law must be respected, regardless of what the European Union thinks. That was an entirely fundamental argument, and otherwise we could not have threatened to overthrow a government if it were not such a fundamental issue as that. So it just doesn't add up, I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141733	We could, of course, take a longer historical debate about why who said what and with what motive and on what errand then. What is at least the position of the Liberal Alliance today, as it was then, is that we think we should be allowed to do, for example. to introduce profit principles. That is what we thought at the time. But I also think it would suit Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten to acknowledge that there is another negotiating room in Europe today about these rules than was left in 2014. That's kind of just what we're taking cutlery off. Our attitude has not changed a comma.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141809	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141811	Thank you. Just to start with, I would like to ask: would the rapporteur not acknowledge that the new negotiating room that has been created is much more due to the discussions that were in connection with and ahead of the British vote • what later turned out to be an exit, but which was hoped would not trigger an exit • more than it was about the resolution that the bourgeois parties joined together back in 2014? Could we not start by hearing the rapporteur's assessment of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141844	I think I have said this twice now: that, of course, the political pressure put on Europe during Cameron's negotiations on a new agreement for Britain also played a role. Of course it has had an impact. I do not think that we should ignore the importance of this when it is a debate that takes place very much in different Member States, including Denmark, but that the situation created by Britain's vote put it here completely at the forefront, I will not run away at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328141911	I am actually very pleased that the rapporteur admits this. I am also sorry if I missed the very clear point in the first place. There's something else I'd like to ask you. What we had major problems with the European Union, because we thus shared the view that it should be possible to index the children's cheque, and that we should fight for our system to be adapted to the EU rules in force, and indeed to be irresponsible at that time, was the call for us to break with EU law, when we are talking so hotly about both on Saturday and at all possible other times, that we should respect EU law and that we should respect the EU system, the free movement of workers and all the elements that the rapporteur himself included in his rapporteur's speech. That is what I want to hear the rapporteur's assessment of. Well, doesn't she agree that it was irresponsible, seen in the clear light of hindsight?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142003	I don't know if it was irresponsible. I would like to say that we went a long way in the debate at the time, but I think that was also needed, and I think that there are actually a whole range of areas in relation to the European political debate. Some people also need to say very loudly and clearly that this is a problem. Then one can always enter into some semantic discussion about whether there should have been arguments for one way or another. The fact is that there were some of us who raised the debate years ago and that there is now a place where there are real political negotiations in Europe to change these rules. I think we should both be happy about that because I know that this is also something that is at the heart of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142043	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142053	Thank you. We've been here discussing this before. I went down to my hidings when we were going to the debate today and found my rapporteur's speech from B 48 last year, which was also about these things. I would actually just like to read a small quote from that speech, because sometimes you have to pat yourself on the shoulder and say that it was actually very wisely written. So it comes here: instead of supporting simplistic myth formation, I think we should look at the challenges we really face. Instead of suspicious Europeans who want to come up here and work, we should ensure that the rules are as good as possible, so that we avoid social dumping, for example, and ensure that foreign companies do not undercut Danish companies on their own. If we want to maintain a strong internal market, it is crucial that we address those challenges, but at the same time also show our support for binding cooperation instead of going back to it as if it were a menu. It is very appropriate for what I would like to say in that debate today. It is about something very fundamental when we talk, for example, about indexing child pay. There is the principle that if you are a national of Denmark, this is where you get such a benefit. And if you're in another country, it's there. I think that is actually very simple. Another part is for us to look sometimes at the real problems rather than get upset about an agenda that may not • which you see when you go down in the facts and look at all the answers to questions that have been about the matter • is the most urgent thing when we talk about making free movement work. And there we take great note of what the Commission has also announced that it would be totally insane to do this. Then I would like to comment on the proposal for adoption which Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen presented. At the end it is written that the Folketing notes that the government will keep the parties voting in favour of the proposal informed of the negotiations for the revision of Regulation 883/2004 on an ongoing basis. I think it would be nice if the Minister would like to keep all the parties of the Folketing, who, whether they agree or not, are actually interested in seeing the direction in which these negotiations are going. On behalf of the Radical Left, which unfortunately cannot be here today, and the alternative, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Parliament believes that it is most fair that migrant workers can receive child benefit when the migrant worker, on an equal footing with national citizens, pays tax on his salary and thus contributes to society where he works. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament notes that indexing the children's cheque would be too bureaucratic a measure and therefore considers that the government should not work to get an indexing of the child's check included in the revision of EU rules in this area. • V 63).
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142404	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. She is not there, that is right, and that is what we have been told. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142423	There's not so much money in this, but it's also about so much other stuff. It's about fairness and the fact that the workers have to experience justice. It is not the case that wage earners from Eastern Europe come to, among other things. Denmark to take advantage of our arrangements. I think that the debate on welfare tourism sometimes comes down to the idea that it is almost for the purpose of wage-earners from low-wage countries. We do not see any evidence of this, but the result is somewhat the same. Because when the objective is that there should be fair competition for jobs between wage earners and fair competition for orders between firms, it is clear to anyone who can make a bit of a calculation that among other things. children's money will take the toll of the wage pressure on wage-earners coming from low-wage countries. The SF can support the proposal for adoption put forward by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142538	Thank you. And there are no brief comments here either, so we shall proceed immediately to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and he is called Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142548	That's what I do. We are very much in line with what the other bourgeois parties have said, and that is why I am not going to make a very long speech. It has been a relatively long debate on something that we are incredibly agreed on in the Folketing. It's cozy enough, of course, but I'll be relatively brief. We are also very pleased that the labour force in Europe can move around so that the resources of society can be used to the best possible extent; that those who can offer their labour somewhere in Europe where it is needed can do so and that companies and workers can find each other for the benefit of producing things where they are best at it. We do not like the idea of competing in Europe on who can offer the best social benefits, and we therefore strongly support the attempt to put some brakes on the possibility that there is, in order to take advantage of the fact that there are very high social benefits in Denmark. This will prevent us from attracting people to Denmark, not because we have any relevant work to do, but because we have a welfare system that is very generous in relation to other European countries. Any action that can help prevent this type of competition will be supported. And that is why we very much hope that Denmark can succeed in getting through this indexing of children's money, so that if you are resident in Denmark and pay child support to children who are in Romania, for example, it will be a smaller benefit they receive than if the children live in Denmark. So we support the government. I must say, then, that I am not so optimistic as to be able to get it through, because I think you can sense that there are other countries around where you do not agree with this approach. But we have to do what we can and the Conservative People's Party wants the government to put as much effort into getting this through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142748	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142754	Thank you. I am not going to ask the rapporteur to apologize for anything or anything, but I would like to hear about something. Having heard both the rapporteur's speech here today, when he says that the Conservative People's Party is not very optimistic about the fact that it is actually possible to make these changes, while the Conservative People's Party back in 2014, after the Commission had made its recommendation to Denmark, was part of the resolution asking the then Thorning-led government to break EU law, will the rapporteur, in the clear light of hindsight today, admit that it was perhaps both a mistake and perhaps even legally irresponsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142846	It's from a time when I wasn't in the Folketing, so I don't have to be very clever about all the details of the discussion that was then. I simply find it difficult to deal with it, because I do not remember where it was exactly criticised. We have a desire to index child support, we want the government to fight as much as possible to get it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142911	We in the Social Democratic Party are all in favour of this, and that is why we are united in a joint text for adoption. I think the rapporteur of the Left was aware of the debate at the time, but he refused to reply and quoted one of the ministers who had said the same thing, and I can also understand that the Conservative rapporteur may not refuse to answer, but at least cannot answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142939	That is a very fair interpretation of it. I don't feel I can answer that, because I wasn't part of those discussions then, so I have to. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has the advantage of getting answers to another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142950	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328142954	It is fair that the rapporteur cannot answer anything that happened at the time, but the rapporteur has been elected rapporteur for a party that sits in government and is now the rapporteur here. That is why I am going to ask a question, and I expect the rapporteur to be able to answer that question. Will Conservatives in government agree to do some things in this area, which goes in and violates EU law, in other words goes against EU law? Do you want to do that under this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143023	I can answer my party's position on that question, and it is clear that this is not the case for us to break EU law. It will cause a lot of trouble, and I think that is only done if it is very, very large and, in principle, important matters for Denmark; it could, for example, be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. However, the starting point is, of course, that we need to comply with EU legislation. If there are clear legal answers, and we must have that first, that we cannot move forward with this, then of course we have a problem in terms of what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143105	So that means you don't want to. The government will not do anything that can go in and violate EU law or EU law. In other words, the rapporteur will also agree with me that the Conservative People's Party in the opposition will well go in and break EU law.They imposed on the then government to do this in 2014 but the Conservative People's Party in government will not. That's kind of what I hear. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143132	I have to say the same thing as I said before that I do not remember the details of that discussion from 2014 well enough to answer it. In fact, I only realize now, when I hear the two Socialist questioners here, that it is apparently the purpose of this question debate today, namely to mess around in what was said in 2014. I actually thought that the purpose of this was that we could agree on how we should behave today, but it is now clear to me that this is actually a teasing question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143202	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143205	Thank you. Now it cannot be my purpose to ask the question, because I have not been involved in calling this question debate. I'll ask in a slightly different way. Would it be contrary to EU law if the current government were to begin to administer in accordance with the applicable legal text on children's checks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143226	You need a legal expert to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143233	I cannot really understand that, because it was obviously not necessary in 2014 when the problem was discussed that the then government would not administer in accordance with the legislative text. So what happened? Has it happened that the Conservative People's Party has been in doubt that the argument put forward at the time was not really correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143257	Well, I am very sorry that I cannot answer questions about the 2014 discussion here, but I simply cannot. Because I have prepared for what I have to deal with today, and that is what the question says about what we want the Danish Government to negotiate now. So I have not read out the criticisms made by the previous government three years ago, so we have to take that another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143324	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. And then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143334	Thank you. Let me start by thanking you for the debate that has taken place in the Chamber today on an important political issue, which has also taken the character of many different things, you might say, corners, in relation to what is the theme, namely indexing child and young people's benefits. I am pleased that there is very broad support for the proposal for adoption that has now been put forward. I think it is important that there is such a large and broad majority in the Danish Parliament who are working precisely to secure the line that I have devoted a great deal of effort to explain now in connection with the debates that have been held in the Danish Parliament today. It is also important to say that this government wants to ensure that the European Union does not move towards a social union in which common standards become an isolated objective in itself. We are concerned that we have freedom of movement, we are concerned that jobs can be created and we are concerned that we can work together on the internal market, but we are also very concerned that we in Denmark should have the opportunity to have our own welfare model. And that's exactly why we're fighting this fight, too, which we've spent some time discussing today. Is it that easy or not? There is no doubt that this is going to be a hard and long-term battle that is potentially going to take many years. I do not think we can expect to be able to conclude the discussion here during 2017. I would expect us to enter 2018 and perhaps later before we are able to reach a political agreement. I also very much agree with this in order to make a few comments, for example. That, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said that this is important. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also said earlier from a political discussion, and that it is not necessarily what overturns the Danish economy at this time, but it is what is right and proper; we have discussed this in the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs before. It is absolutely essential that we also have that position on European cooperation. If you take a different view, I believe that you are actually helping to make it more difficult to secure broad support for strong European cooperation. I note, of course, that other rapporteurs stress the fact that the negotiations that are taking place are going to have a hard time, and I can also say to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, who is in the Chamber, but in the slightly farther part of the Chamber, in other words on the right, so that he is not so easy to see in the Chamber that the Parliamentary Committee on Europe is of course kept informed of how the momentum is in this matter. It's not like I'm not gonna do it. It has to be said that part of today's debate has also been with Mr Tugendhat. Finn Sørensen. After all, it is the always mystic rapporteur from the Enhedslisten who has searched every corner of this discussion. You have to take your hat off for that. But I also hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen, that a draft law called L 7. It was adopted in the second session of 2014-2015, just after the accession of the then V government, and this ensures, as the draft law on the reintroduction of the principle of income tax on the right to family allowances and children's and young people's allowances for refugees, etc., that EU law is applied in relation to EU citizens. That is what the Left Government notes in the draft law's observations. So everything that has been Mr. Finn Sørensen's discussion today is, in fact, already valid. So it has to be said that Mr. Finn Sørensen may not have been fully aware of what was stated in that bill, why the whole argument put forward by Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen has fallen to the ground. But it doesn't necessarily have to come, sir. Finn Sørensen to the detriment of only the rapporteur will promise me to read that bill and then we can have a discussion based on what it says there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143747	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143753	Thank you. In view of the fact that the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, thought this was a teasing question, I would like to start by saying that it is not. When the question was asked at the time, it was intended to have a wider discussion on Regulation No. 883. We have subsequently had that, which I would like to sign for, and I would also like to sign for the line taken by the Minister in the Committee on European Affairs at the end of February and, in general, for the willingness shown by the Minister to bring together some of Parliament's parties on this important issue. Perhaps what I would just like to ask you is one of the things we could not get an answer to, from neither Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen or Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Will the Minister today, in the clear light of hindsight, recognise that it was a mistake back in 2014 to demand that the then government violated EU law with the proposal that had been put forward when the Left was in opposition at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143903	I am not, in fact, going to stand and botany myself and apologize for what you mean politically. For the Left, this was a crucial and important matter at the time. We thought at the time that the then government could have done more to push the Commission too. If you are going to go down in a historical discussion, you have to say that with the agreement that was with the UK, it was recognised that the whole question of indexation or not was something that could be done, and that was the whole discussion we had at that time. So, no, I'm not really going to apologize for what happened historically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328143951	I didn't ask the Minister to apologize for anything either. We have discussed this a few times today. There is no reason for this; the debate is not necessarily going to get much further. Since we are a number of parties that are also united around this, which many of us have expressed as important issues, we must in some way agree on what a responsible approach to some of these EU issues is, whether you are in government or opposition. That is more what we were curious about, and what my question was about, namely whether the Minister does not recognize it today as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144026	At the times of life when I have and have had the pleasure of having the ministerial responsibility, I am endeavouring to ensure both good and close cooperation with the Folketing, but also to reach out to a dialogue, and that is exactly what has been the reason for this debate. I would also like to stress that I think it has actually been a fruitful discussion, given that this is a very, very important political discussion in relation to the whole of European cooperation. It has not filled much today in this discussion we have had in the Folketing. It has been some other parts that have been discussed. However, in terms of ensuring support for strong European cooperation and, above all, strong popular support, this is a quite relevant discussion. It has to be said that this is also what we have had years ago with changing governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144115	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144119	I am personally delighted that the Minister is taking the floor, for the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jan E. Jørgensen, and the rapporteur for the Conservatives, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, might as well not go to the platform because they didn't know very much or didn't want to speak. I know the Minister so well that I know the Minister would like to do so. And I also recognise that the Minister actually has some good positions in this area and actually is fighting for these things on which we agree with the Minister and the government. But I have to ask you something, because it's also part of it. Well, we're fighting for these things that we've been talking about today, and we have to do that together. It is also good that we have a joint proposal for adoption. But I also have to ask: do we want to see this government break some rules that go against EU law? Do you want to see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144208	So, first of all, I think that we should actually sign up for a very good rapporteur's speech by Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen not only today, but in general terms, and for that matter also from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. There is no reason to say that what was said there was not wise. However, if the question arises as to whether the government intends to break the rules on which we are bound in relation to our EU membership, I can say: No, we are, of course, complying with the rules that apply to membership of the European Union. Otherwise, there was no reason to be a member of the European Union either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144244	So that means that, just as we have one social democracy in opposition and another social democracy in government, as I hear the Liberals say, we also have a Left who, in opposition, believes that we should break EU law but who, when they are in government, believes that we should not do so. In other words, on this point we also have one Left in opposition and another Left in government. Isn't that right? That's what I can deduce from this answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144304	No, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is now quite delighted and starts wandering around the Chamber restlessly, I would say that the matter is quite simply that the previous government did not dare to go to the Commission at all and demand that the whole question of indexation be looked at. Now we can see that it can be done; that is what was the model in relation to the UK. So there is reason to note that the Social Democrats generally mean one when they are in opposition, and sometimes something more sensible when they are in government, but that of course the Left has a good attitude that goes back, both when you are in opposition and when you are in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144335	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144337	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. I welcome the Minister's confirmation that it is all the parties of the Folketing that will be informed of how this matter is proceeding. In any case, that is also sensible by the Minister, because we are arguing about many things and discussing many things, but in relation to just some of the specific issues we are discussing in connection with Regulation 883, as several have noted, there is, of course, a broad majority in the Folketing, among others. In connection with indexing the children's cheques with greater or less enthusiasm, there is support for it. So I guess it's nice to have the whole of the hinterland with as much as you can get it. I have to extend it safely to the viewers a little fatigue discussion about what happened in 2014. However, it can be said that the Minister has set the point here by referring to L 7 by referring to the fact that it was evidently necessary to write in L 7 that EU legislation was respected, namely precisely on the point that was not respected when the VK government made its legislative proposal, so that periods from other countries had to be counted in order to determine whether the principle of profit had been respected. And by doing so, the Minister recognizes that the VK government was wrong. That's just what I wanted to make clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144459	Well, you have to admire sir. Finn Sørensen for an enormous fidelity and indeed sometimes also a depth of how he politically attacks a case. The worse it is then to experience that Mr. Finn Sørensen, against better knowledge, has put questions to colleagues here in the Assembly Hall, where Mr. Finn Sørensen has pretended that something has been different from what was the case, for Mr. Finn Sørensen was well aware of the fact that L 7 had been adopted; it does not come as a surprise now, and Mr. Finn Sørensen looks all the way down to the detail of L 7. And I do not think that is fair to those colleagues here in the Folketing who may not have just been aware of L 7. But the truth is, yes, in L 7, we say that we are, of course, dealing with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144542	Yes, but it also recognizes that the VK government was wrong. Can't we just get a confirmation of the little question so we can get it out of the world? Because that was a rather heated discussion at the time. And it is clear that when you actually threaten a government and yell at its parliamentary basis, and I don't know what, it might be very good just to clean it up. So would the Minister not just acknowledge that the blue parties were wrong and that the VK government was wrong on the issue of child cheque legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144617	I don't need to stand by and be to some devotion to the pope and confess my sins and say that we were wrong. We are fully committed to what we did at the time. We thought it was necessary to fight that battle. The VK government made a very good bill back in 2010 or 2011, as I remember. Then there has been a discussion about what EU law says and what EU law does not say, and we then chose to make L 7. And we must then just note today that Mr. Finn Sørensen has been well aware that L 7 has existed, but of course has pretended in questions to the rapporteurs in this Chamber today that L 7 has not been adopted, so to speak. I think that is a little too bad for the debate, because when Mr. Finn Sørensen has known the answer, there is no reason to ask any questions, because you know the answer in advance. But I'm not gonna interfere with that. Sir. Finn Sørensen must ask all the questions he wants. I'm really glad he's interested in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144709	Sir. Thomas Jensen, Silkeborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144715	Thank you, President. After all, the Minister mentions that the former VK government in 2010-2011 put forward a bill, and it was in the tax minister's area, and it was the current Minister for Employment who was the tax minister at that time. I would just like to ask the Minister whether, in his role as tax minister back in 2010-2011, the EU asked whether it was legal in relation to EU law that this principle was introduced on the child's cheque.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144743	What I did in 2010 as the tax minister and what considerations there were, I believe, I have to say to Mr. Thomas Jensen, who also followed the debate at the time, has to explain in writing. Then I am sure that every nuance will be included in that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144800	Then I can help the memory a little on the way, but we can also take it in writing afterwards. It was in fact the case that in reply to Mr. Nick Hækkerup said the then tax minister did not have to ask the EU if this was legal, but simply introduced it here in Denmark without even knowing if you went into anything that could cause problems. It later caused problems, and it was then another government that had to try to repair the damage. But I just think it's part of history that the VK government didn't, at the time, do a proper piece of legislation on this recovery principle on the children's cheque.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144836	The governments of which I have been a member have always endeavoured to make good legislation. In fact, I think all ministers do that, even social democratic ministers. But how the law came into being and what considerations there were, I would like to explain in writing. It is also a matter that has been the subject of major political discussion, public access to documents has flown around in the chain, and that is only fine. I can elaborate on that in a written reply. I think that will be useful to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144904	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. Thanks for the effort. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the three proposals for adoption will not take place until Thursday 30 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144924	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328144940	Thank you. Last week, the draft law discussed by the business rapporteurs was over 1,000 pages. This week we are down to 461 pages. Since 2009, when the current payment law was adopted, there has been major technological progress in the field of IT, which has made it possible to develop new online and mobile payment solutions that were not envisaged 8 years ago. Many new payment services, therefore, do not fall into, or fall only to a lesser extent, the scope of the law we have today. The overall aim of the proposed law is then to ensure that the regulatory framework for the provision of electronic payment services remains up-to-date and reflects technological developments. The new players now to be covered by the law are the so-called third party providers, i.e. payment service providers which are different from the payment service provider with whom you as a consumer have your account. With the proposal, the Minister is trying to ensure adequate consumer protection in relation to the activities of these third-party providers, and I will come back to that. In fact, for me and the Social Democrats, what attracts the most attention is the relaxation of the two Danish special rules. Firstly, the Minister is proposing a softening of the special rule on the obligations of business to receive cash. The minister suggests that a business is obliged to receive cash payments from the period from kl. 6 a.m. until 6 a.m. 10:00. Businesses located in areas where there may be an increased risk of robbery associated with the receipt of cash are only required to receive cash from kl. 6 a.m. until 6 a.m. 8:00. And it is the Minister of Industry who designates the areas. We are largely in favour of this relaxation, but we would like to ask the Minister to qualify the proposed periods on the basis of criminal statistics so that we ensure that the law works by preventing the likelihood of a robbery. We can, for example. read in the consultation answers that, for example, HORESTA believes that one misses a little in relation to the times. Then there are some business types where there must be an opportunity to pay with cash around the clock. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister of Business can here think of pharmacies and 24-hour dentists and other vital recipients of payment. But the question is whether it should not be a shell statement, so certain types of business are obliged to receive cash around the clock; that it is not just something that he can do, but something that he must do as a store owner. The second relaxation of a Danish special rule proposed by the Minister is the ban on using consumer payment information about what a consumer has bought, where it has been bought and what it costs. I believe that we must balance consumer protection and the opportunities for growth in the fintech sector, as in the capital, for example. is located within Copenhagen FinTech. It would be good, of course, if Danish fintech companies were to be able to take the lead in the development of products that can compete with other fintech industries in our neighbouring countries, but this should not be at the expense of the consumer's safety, in relation to where and with whom his personal data ends. The proposal is quite specific that third party players can only use payment information about what a consumer has bought, where it has been purchased and what it has cost to develop a number of services in specific areas. That is, for example, the case. consumer overview, it's budgeting, categorization and comparison of consumption, advice on consumption, consumption patterns and unusual transactions; it's payment reminders, marketing, advice, electronic receipt solutions, discount and loyalty programs, automatic reporting of donations to charity to public authorities. With the listed services that payment services can offer to the consumer, it is possible for you as a consumer to have a better overview of your economy and to have products that are better suited to your needs, for example. just moved in with the boyfriend and both have a streaming service, it may be that you can settle for one and thus save money. However, I also see some problems in the points on marketing, advice and discount and loyalty programmes, and that is one of the issues that I would like to have a greater insight into during committee reading. It is a step in the right direction that the payment service should not use information for discriminatory pricing for products targeted at the payer, but how do we ensure that one hundred percent? We also need to follow up on this during the committee procedure. Then there's also this one with the mapping of consumption patterns and this one with the person-to-person segmentation, and here we'll have to look into how exactly we'll get it properly in. On the whole, I would say that we in the Socialist Group are sceptical. We cannot say yes or no here today. We would like to look at what our neighbouring countries will do in these areas of payment services. It's only Denmark that has this special rule, but how do they do it in Sweden, Norway and Finland? Perhaps we can learn more from that. I would also like to say that during the Committee's examination of the 461 pages, I would also like to add, as I did last week, that we will have a very technical review of the draft law so that all rapporteurs know exactly what this bill means. After all, we are entering new land where, with this bill, if we adopt it, we are sending consumers into something new. That is why it would be very good if we all knew exactly what we would accept if we said yes to it. So far, however, the Social Democratic Party has neither the support nor the opposition to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328145513	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328145520	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign for the proposed bill from the government, draft law on payments. After all, this is a legislative proposal to replace the law on payment services and electronic money. For a long time, we have seen that payment patterns and technical possibilities change. Just think about MobilePay etc., because then we can see that payment patterns change quite quickly and that there are more and more intelligent solutions. Then, of course, we must ensure that there is also intelligent legislation that addresses the challenges that may be, for the benefit of both citizens and businesses. If you look at the overall legislative proposal, you can see that, as I said, it must ensure that there is a modern framework for the provision of electronic payment services. There are a number of regulatory mechanisms which the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party we would like to attach a little extra attention to some elements. On the one hand, there is that, as Mr. Thomas Jensen mentioned, in relation to pharmacy sales, etc., that there is an authorisation. There, too, the Danish People's Party would like there to be a shell authorisation, I would have liked to have said to the Minister, so that we will, of course, ensure that in places where you can buy vital medicines at the pharmacy and over-the-counter medicines etc., it must be such that people can pay for their medicines without being denied the delivery of the goods because they do not have electronic debit cards in their pockets. Then I also think it is important that we follow some of the recommendations that have been made, among other things. from the Elders Case, where you say that you really are in favour of the proposal itself, you think it is sensible but you also want to ensure that there is a revision of the law after two years. It is also something that the Danish People's Party would very much like to bring. We have also noted that the Consumer Council Think has also said that in this way they are taking part in the changes that are taking place in relation to payment data, etc., but that we must of course do so with care in view of the fact that it must still be so that it is clear, as it is made clear, that it is still the case for the individual consumer that it is possible to choose, that it is an active choice to make, whether or not one's payment data can be used in connection with other purchases, etc. If the individual consumer does not want to be connected to the registration of their purchases, they must, of course, be able to cut themselves off from this. This is what we in the Danish People's Party want to place a great deal of emphasis on. Then, with the bill, there has also been a change that we have chosen to go along with, in relation to this desire that has been going on for many years in terms of cash-free periods in shops. We think it makes sense to amend the regulation so that there will be this opportunity to have cash-free shops from 1 p.m. 10:00 till 10:00. 6:00 in the morning. We believe in the Danish People's Party that it will be few shops that will do so. And if you look at the Swedish information, you can see that it is actually not very many shops that have wanted it here and done it. It's a little different from area to area. But we believe that it is fair enough to have the opportunity to do so. But we also think that we should look at the fact that there are other technological solutions which can be at least as attractive to the individual store owner. We can, for example. see that many shops choose to invest in these ATMs, where you pay with cash, and then you can get your change out in a machine à sous machine. This then means that the employee who is in the local convenience store, or whatever it may be, is not in touch with money and has no opportunity to hand over money to robbers. It also provides security for employees, and that means that if there are some people with bad intentions, they will also know that they cannot get any money from the store. We also know that many companies and many shops could benefit from investing in these new DNA spray systems, so that you can make sure that if you get a robbery in your store, you can spray some spray on the thief or the robber, and that is something that is very difficult to get off, I should say, and that means that you really have an even better opportunity to investigate and come after the criminals who have committed, for example, armed robbery against a 24-hour kiosk. So there are some places where we can see that things can get better. But we also have to, I think, fairly say in the Danish People's Party that we would very much like the technological solutions to be adopted as far as possible. Basically, we can support the bill, but, as I said, with regard to the "can't' task in relation to pharmacy sales and medicines purchases, I think that we need to make a change, and then, of course, we also need to ensure that there is a review of the law after two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150019	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150025	Thank you for your speech, and also thank you for bringing it up with these closed cash systems, where you put a note or a coin in, and then you get what you need back. Both in relation to the hijacking argument that we have often heard here, it will certainly be a safeguard against robbery, but it will also ensure that some of the elderly or vulnerable citizens or people who simply do not have the opportunity to have a debit card for various reasons do not feel that we are so busy digitising in here that they are being hijacked. So just to understand the rapporteur's position quite clearly: does the rapporteur agree that we in the committee will be bored out, if it could not be a road instead? PROSA, the trade union, has also said that these systems do not have to be very expensive, because I think we all have an interest in helping very small businesses. But there are a number of different considerations that balance here, for example. the fact that not everyone wants credit cards. So is it correct that the rapporteur thinks that we should look at this in committee and that it might be an amendment to the overall proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150145	No, that's not how it's supposed to be. It must be understood that we support the changes that exist, both in relation to the clock. 22-6 and also in relation to kl. 20-6 places where crime is high. The two parts we support from the Danish People's Party. What I am just saying is that if you look at the experience that has come from other countries, among other things. Sweden, you can see that it is not nearly all shops that have wanted to proceed so drastically. In fact, they have just wanted to take advantage of some of the electronic solutions that exist. There we are just saying that we would very much like electronic solutions to be able to gain access to these areas, where people will find, for example, that it will not be possible to pay with cash for a period of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150232	If the rapporteur in his speech emphasizes that there are some vulnerable citizens, for example. I do not understand why people who do not want to use this are still supporting the fact that, for a period of time, cash cannot be used when there are other solutions, i.e. these closed cash systems where physical money can be put in. Why not just pursue the trail which both means that there can be no risk of robberies and at the same time gives a right to the elderly, to the vulnerable and to others who feel deprived of electronic and digital development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150321-2	Yes, but all the experience shows that those who use to go into a store and shop after kl. 22 e.g., typically people who pay with an electronic transfer. And then I would say that not all stores can afford to invest in these DNA spray systems, which cost quite a lot of money. The same goes for investing in these automatic systems, because a certain size of the store is needed to make it profitable for a company. It must of course be up to the individual company to assess how they will do it, but I'm just saying that when we now open up the possibility that some shops, by the way with the blessing of the Elder cause, can be cashless during these periods of the day, I just think that at the same time we should also fairly mention the electronic solutions, the technical solutions that are there, which can also take hold with shoplifting and with robbery of Danish stores.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150416	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150420	Following on from what the previous questioner said, I would like to say that I am also a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is not more concerned about the consequences of this for many of our older citizens, because it is not the case that, because you are older, you never act at odd times, because there are many reasons why you need it. Is it not the case that, if you give this opportunity to shops, you are taking away an incentive, you might say, to invest in some of the technologies that the rapporteur himself has mentioned, and thus we risk putting older Danes in a situation where they find it harder to have access to cash purchases if they so wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150503	I do not recognise that premise. Now Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself the word incentive, and if, as a businessman, you want to have a large turnover in your store, it might well be that some of them would actually rather take advantage of the opportunity to make use of some of the electronic solutions and thereby get a higher turnover in their stores also after kl. 8:00 or after 8:00. 22, and they will be able to do so in this way if, for example, they invest in these hand-free ATMs, in which a large number of our service stations have already invested. There will probably be more who will do it, and the more who invest in it, the cheaper it will be, of course, also to drive them. So I do not share that concern. And I also think that, after all, this is one of the reasons why the Elders case in the hearing answers is positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150555	Yes, but the Elders Case also raises a warning flag about exactly this element of the bill at least as I read the hearing response. It is true that there may be an incentive to do this in order to get more traders, but the problem of investing precisely on this kind of incentive structure is that the less purchasing-powerful audience is among other things. some of our folk pensionists, who are some of the people in Denmark who have the lowest incomes, maybe they are not the ones that you think about in business first when you think about turnover. It is a bit as we have seen in the mail, that is, the moment it is to be commercial, we do not get it delivered out in the areas of Denmark where it is not really worthwhile, and it is perhaps one of the differences that is on Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti. I think you have a belief that the market is doing this, while in reality it often turns out that it doesn't hold true and that it is hurting some of the weak people in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150649	Yes, you can have an opinion on that, but I do not think this is going to affect the weak in society, I have to say. I mean, this is a pragmatic solution, such as... to deal with some of the challenges we have in Denmark, for example, we have further between the patrols that drive out in our rural areas, etc. There are many places in Denmark where you experience that there is longer between preventive work, police and case investigation. There were, for example, a case in South Jutland not so long ago, where in six months you had two armed robberies against a merchant. If it really is the development in Denmark, among other things. Because of globalisation and foreigners coming to Denmark, East Europeans coming and enriching themselves in Denmark, and everything else, yes, we also have to accept that there must be legislation that takes care of it. Among other things, a store owner is allowed to impose restrictions to make it less attractive to rob his store. I think that is quite fair and entirely legitimate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150748	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150751	I am listening to the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, and I was actually wondering what the previous rapporteurs had to say about the rapporteur's remarks in this area. But now I have heard them, and I really would like to ask one last general question. Because when we discuss IT policy and digitalisation in general here at Christiansborg, the Danish People's Party often advocates the same thing as we are in the Alternative, namely that it should preferably be a choice. I mean, we're in on digitisation, but we want it to be a choice, and we want it to be an improvement. It is not enough that it simply brings savings. So in this respect, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, in the work of the committee, where it must then be, is working to ensure that it becomes an active choice for the individual, whether you want to pay with digital means of payment or with cash. Because I can see that we must at least make some adjustments, or perhaps some special arrangements, so that it is actually an active choice. Otherwise, there will be a choice on behalf of the citizens here, so there will be places where you cannot pay with cash, and that is not exactly the case in the debate where we usually agree otherwise, i.e. in terms of IT policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328150851	I think I actually said it quite clearly: we support the fact that shopkeepers are being given the opportunity to introduce a period of 24 hours in which you cannot pay with cash in their shops, especially where you can see that there has been an increasing number of armed robbery. But can then discuss why it has become the case in Denmark that there are more and more armed robberies or why shopkeepers feel powerless against criminals. There may be several reasons for this, I acknowledge that. I just think that if we look at this bill, we can see that it gives such a healthy balance between the two premises. I also believe that this is one of the reasons why, among other things, we have not yet reached a decision. The Elders case follows it and supports it. And I think it should also be remembered that, as I said before, we just want there to be a review of this law to see how things have turned out. If someone hasn't been able to buy their goods in the stores, then of course we'll have to look at it. However, it is a paragraph and it is also clearly described in the draft law, moreover in relation to some of the other sub-elements of electronic payment service, that it will continue to apply, that there is a ban on the use of payment data, etc., if the individual consumer says that it does not want one's payments to be registered. So consumers still have that opportunity, just as they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151006	I actually understand that this doesn't necessarily have to affect the elderly. It may well be that all sorts of other groups may be affected, so it is not to say that it is only the elderly who are exposed here late in the evening. I have seen some figures that showed that in percentage terms it is actually infinitely few who act at that time. That is quite a matter of principle when I ask about it. However, I take this forward with the rapporteur in terms of IT policy, because it is usually the clear view of the Danish People's Party that it should be an active choice whether or not to participate in the digitalisation process, and there we should at least have a political memory of having a hand under the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151039	Well, I agree with that. After all, we must ensure that the digital strategy that exists also benefits consumers, and I think it is here too. But things are evolving, and that is why I am saying that with this bill we have had to say that with the change in the economic situation and conditions in Denmark in relation to the fight against crime, there are therefore a number of places where you have been challenged, among other things. in small retailers, 24-hour shops, 24-hour shops, service stations, etc. I think it is perfectly legitimate that we are trying to introduce legislation that both takes care of ensuring that people can come in and pay for their goods, but also ensures that those who are employed in those places and who experience these robberies are given a greater level of protection. The alternative to using that word is that shops close down those places, and this is even more damaging to consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151132	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and welcome to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151142	I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has both taken the chair in the Finance Committee and sat down in the Prime Minister's chair, but that Enhedslisten should be Denmark's third largest party we will hopefully never experience. So I am pleased to take the floor as rapporteur for the Left on the legislative proposal that we are now considering. After all, it mainly implements EU directives on payments aimed at ensuring better competition, creating a wider choice of payment solutions. Some elements may call for more attention than others. The debate has already shown this, but I would just like to stress that it is important that we have a high level of consumer safety. It follows from the directive that the liability of consumers to a number of these payment schemes is reduced from DKr 1 100. to DKK 375 and that there will be a ban on the overturning of card fees to consumers on a number of payment cards where this is possible today. Basically, payment solutions are increasingly being offered across borders and from an increasing number of players. There is a high degree of innovation in this area. This is positive and there are many of these players who are taking advantage of the great potential of data to create innovative payment solutions that are adapted to the individual needs of consumers. They are also solutions that are sought by Danish consumers, who are among the most digital in Europe. The two points which call for special attention are, of course, elements relating to Danish special rules, and these are among others. the possibility of consent being given as a consumer to the processing of your payment data when using a payment card, and that is basically also more equal compared to, for example, trading on the web, where cookies and others can collect some of the same information. The proposal therefore provides for the possibility, as a consumer, of using this data for a number of specific purposes, after express consent, and my Socialist colleague has already explained it: that is, among other things. to ensure a consumer overview, budget planning, reminder of bills, and that you can be informed whether you pay more than the average for different services. As I said, these are solutions which require the consumer's consent and which will allow the consumer to gain better tools and greater insight into his own economy. Most of the services provided by the bill are already offered in other countries, such as our neighbouring Sweden, where there is no ban on the use of payment data. This is something that has also been brought up in connection with the government's implementation committee, where there was a desire for a more liberal approach, because it will allow Danish companies to develop the digital and innovative solutions of the future, and of course also the opportunity to support a emerging fintech industry in Denmark. There has been an explicit desire to ensure more liberal rules so that new fintech instruments and tools and ideas can be developed in Denmark and that this is not something that should happen in our neighbouring countries. The second part of the bill, which has probably attracted the greatest attention, is the possibility of no longer being obligated to receive cash in the period from 22 to 06 or from 20 to 06 in areas of crime. In fact, I think that is quite a sensible proposal. I think it was last summer that a recommendation came from a working group that had looked at this. There was a split, but there was the greatest support for what I think was called model 2 at the time, namely that as a business owner or shop owner you could choose for yourself whether to receive cash. It is clear that there is a security aspect during this period. There is also the fact that cash is actually relatively more expensive to handle, and if we can make it safer for companies and stores and we can also make sure that their costs fall, then I think it makes real sense. In relation to the debate that has taken place, I cannot fail to point out that 15 years ago it was not possible as a consumer to act at that time. Because that prevented the closing law from going out and shopping at all, and then it is a little strange to hear a discussion about whether you should use your credit card if you have to go out and act at a slightly wrong time. One could turn the debate around and say that when we had been liberalised in the past, the message from some parties was that there was so much time to act, so it was quite unnecessary that one should be allowed to act when it suits oneself, but that is how so many things happen in here. I agree that it is quite reasonable for the Minister to be able to say that there are certain benefits where you have to be able to pay in cash daily pharmacists, the dentist's assistant has been mentioned as examples. I think that makes very good sense, but that we are giving the opportunity for a store to decide for itself whether it will receive cash in the late evening and night hours, I think that is basically a good idea, and that is why we naturally support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151706	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. No one was praying for a brief comment, so we move on to the fourth largest party, namely the Enhedslisten. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328151726	After all, we must be careful to predict, especially about the future, I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Left. However, the reason for this proposal is that there have been a number of electronic payment platforms that are not properly regulated at the moment. It must be put in order, and that is basically sensible. When there are new ways of paying and new forms of international cooperation on this, there must of course also be regulation of it. However, there are a number of concerns about the proposal, which contains a number of different elements. Some of these payment surrogates, which are also dealt with in the proposal, will not be subject to the same registration obligations. It is reasonable, therefore, that the provider should not have collected as much information about the user by means of a travel card as it seems to be immediately reasonable, especially since it apparently does not weaken consumer protection. It seems that the same rules apply to other payment cards. So that is one of the positive aspects of the proposal. What we find most problematic is what has been discussed, namely the question of opening up the possibility for traders to be more able to say no to cash payments at different times of the day, contrary to the demands we are making today, when the consumer has a right to be able to pay in cash. So we can say that consumers' rights are being weakened and business rights improved, and that is the balance that we often discuss in this House when we discuss business policy. It is a question of finding the right balance, and I have to note that concerns are therefore raised and that I have received a number of mails from citizens, but also from various interest groups, which point out that this can make it more difficult for older people and people with financial problems who do not use credit cards to be able to act at certain times of the day. It may be socially vulnerable, it may be homeless, and it may be others who do not have access to a payment card. I also find it interesting to read the security industry's hearing answer, because they say plainly that they do not think this works in terms of reducing the number of robberies. Instead of pointing to these closed payment systems for cash, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also said, it was a more effective path towards fewer robberies. Perhaps it should also be mentioned that the number of robberies is, of course, falling sharply, and that is why one can of course wonder at the timing of giving the traders the rights that they have not had before. It is probably very honest what the rapporteur on the Left says: that this cash business is expensive to deal with. That is certainly true, and that is certainly also the main reason why we want to give them the opportunity to spend less and less cash. But it is just the case that there is also a consideration to be given to those who are at the other end, namely the consumers, namely the citizens, and I have to say that in this case we will probably raise the flag of these groups on the Enhedslisten side. However, we will finally take a position on the proposal at committee stage, in which we will also go into some of the slightly more technical issues that the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned. For it is, of course, like much of what comes from the European Union, yet another of these quite technical and difficult-to-use legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152118	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments, so we turn to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who comes from our fifth largest party, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152137	Thank you for that, President. Technological developments are moving very quickly, and this also applies to payment services. There are constantly new products and services that make life easier for citizens, and that is certainly a good thing. MobilePay is one of the examples of a Danish invention that has incredible potential and has already been taken incredibly well. We can be proud of that. New technology means that existing services can be used in new ways and that you can put together different kinds of services for brand new products. That is the way prosperity is created. That is why it is of course also important that the legislation we have in this area is up to date and that new technologies can be applied. This bill implements the second payment directive. We believe that, overall, a good balance has been struck between consumer protection on the one hand and regulation on the other, ensuring competition, and that we have a diversity of services in this area. We are particularly pleased that the Danish special rules that have been so far here I am thinking about § 124 • being removed. I know positively that this means that Danish companies will stay in Denmark instead of going to, for example, Denmark. Sweden. So here is an example of taking due care and being a little visionary by removing Danish special rules. Then there is the whole question of cashless shops, and here there are certainly some disagreements in the Folketing. I think it should be up to the shops even if they want to take cash or not. If there is a demand in the market to pay with cash, that demand will be met. This was a way to differentiate between shops that chose not to accept cash. But now a small step is being taken in the right direction. There are some who believe that special consideration should be given, and this legislation will then do so. This is a major legislative proposal, so I am sure that there will be many questions that need to be answered. That is why more committee work is expected, but basically we think it is a good proposal, which we are of course voting in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152452	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152456	Thank you. It is a comprehensive legislative proposal: it is almost a standard comment now. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on the part that concerns credit ratings and the changes that will be made in this area. I have at least understood the draft law; that is also one of the things we must have bored out in the committee work, so what banks or lenders are allowed to include in relation to credit ratings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152525	What is absolutely essential, I think, is that in order to allow companies to join, for example. credit ratings and get the data that is needed, then, of course, consent must be given to it. I think that is very clear in the draft law. So I think as it is now, it's hit right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152556	But I may have misunderstood. But does the rapporteur not also see that there will now be some scope for expansion? Now I know that the rapporteur and I have had a discussion in the past about whether authorities can go into people's gardens. This is a violation of the individual's freedom, but the fact that you go all the way into the private sphere to see what people really spend their money on, and how they handle their economy, isn't it going too far instead of just looking at what people have of economic space when you have to make credit ratings? I am just thinking that perhaps it was a common liberal agenda that there are also limits to how much information needs to be provided in order to obtain a loan or credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152641	The starting point is that as long as you consent to your data being used, I think it is correct. There has been a discussion, as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby brought up in relation to what information, for example. about health data, etc. can use. Perhaps it is a relevant discussion to discuss in committee. But I think that consumer safety has been taken into account in this legislation, and I think that the right balance has been struck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152723	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328152732	Thank you. I am sure that I, like everyone else, will also be wiser during the committee procedure. It was not necessarily absolutely clear what we were going to say when we had a group meeting this morning, when we were livestreaming my position on this proposal. And it is also because I have allowed myself to really try to see if I could get closer to the proposal and say yes to it when we get that far. There are some hurdles for us and some of them have been mentioned, but there are essentially two distinctions that I am going with right now. And one is when I remember myself as an entrepreneur and my good acquaintance, who is also a fake entrepreneur: i.e. what limits they can face, what opportunities they want. I can see that many of their challenges will be met here, and I think we should look at them very, very positively in order to meet them. Conversely, there is also a direction called the cashless society, and in many ways it is really smart if it gets like this. But it just presents us with the challenge that I also discussed with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party before that it will not necessarily be a choice for the individual citizen or the individual company whether one wants to use one or other payment option. For there are some who simply cannot pay in the way that is the only one to be expected, and that is very, very dangerous. It is not just because it deprives us of some user-friendliness and something that could almost be a right, that is to say to be allowed to pay with its cash in the store that is now open. But it is also simply because one gets into something that could end up in a very, very massive profiling of the people and citizens who are in society, and it is not only critical if one has not given consent to this information being used, but it is also critical as long as we are just not good enough to store data. That is another perspective in that, that is, the question of why we should be a little anxious about just saying yes. Finally, there is also a slightly critical perspective. Because if you look at these shops that end up with cashless payment options, could you imagine that they were also run by, what it was for companies that would then be able to deliver these payment solutions? Could it be imagined that there was so much influence on these companies that it might at some point be almost impossible to operate from the place in question without agreeing to use only one or more of the payment solutions in question, but not cash, for example, because cash did not yield any dividends to the payment service providers who now wanted to enter the market? It is a worst case scenario, but we have seen it elsewhere where shopping rooms make it so difficult for smaller shops to run business that it is almost only the large chains that can be there for one reason or another. So this is an overall perspective that needs to be taken into account. So some data management and general weighting of citizens' opportunities and rights to favourable business conditions do not seem to me to be good against evil. It is simply a balance that we have to find, and it sounds like we all agree on that. At the moment we find it difficult to agree to it by the Alternative, but we will do everything in our committee to get there, because at least the directives need to be implemented and then we will have to see how far we can go along with the rest of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153052	The Radical Left is in favour of the negotiations on this bill, with a positive sign for both elements of the proposal. As far as the more relaxed rules for cash purchases are concerned, we basically have the view, which of course is something we would ask a little about, that the vast majority of Danes today have either a Visa/Dankort or access to MobilePay or can relatively easily get both. And we believe that, for the sake of safety and transparency, it makes sense to move further along this path in terms of digitalisation, and we do not really think this is such a threat to people's ability to buy, for example. medicines at pharmacies. But, of course, we have to check that people have access to either one or the other, i.e. what a residual group there is, if any. But Denmark is a pioneer country for digitalisation, and I think we can also be in relation to buying situations. The second part of the proposal is a difficult balance between two things that many have mentioned. On the one hand, there is consumer protection, so that you have to be able to own your own data, that you have to be the one who allows and does not allow it to be used or not. So consumer protection is a key value for us. On the other hand, it is clear that the registration of all these data offers opportunities, including for customers, not only for companies but also, in particular, for customers. That is why, as a starting point, we see that this is an excellent compromise which the Minister has reached here, where, instead of giving it all free in a huge chop, we have created a positive list of the options that are set out in the draft law now and which, as far as we can see, we see mostly as something that can benefit customers if it is properly managed. However, on the explicit premise that it requires authorisation of the customer himself for the use of the data and that the customer can get out of it at any time, and that one cannot be rejected as a customer if one does not want to provide its data. There are, of course, many devils in the detail of it, as Mr. Thomas Jensen has mentioned this, which we must have uncovered during the committee procedure, and we will of course make sure that is all right before we can press the green button. But it is my hope that we will end up pressing it because we think it is a legislative proposal that is pointing forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153331	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153344	My colleagues have already mentioned many of the things I think there is now agreement that we should have discussed in committee. One of the things that has been most attentive is the issue of cashless shops for a certain period of time, and in this respect I would like to ask the Minister some questions, but also some things that have been clarified in committee. Because this robbery argument has gone again several times, but at the same time we see more and more shops using these closed cash payment systems, and such a model will certainly not be a concern. Denmark is the world's most digitized country, and it's going really fast, and many of us think it's really smart with all these technologies, so we can handle transfers easily. But there are also a number of other considerations that need to be taken into account, and I think that both PROSA, IT Policy Association, Consumer Council Think and others have made some reasonable observations. On the one hand, there is all this data protection, tracking, monitoring and so on, but on the other hand there is also the argument that we still have citizens in this country who think that technological developments are going just as fast as they are, and that gives an insecurity which I also think we should respect because things have gone very, very fast. There are also vulnerable citizens who simply do not have the opportunity to participate, who do not have the opportunity to use cards in this way. There are older citizens, such as: My grandmother, who doesn't have a credit card, I think that should be her right, even though I think it would in many cases be smart if she had one. That is why we think it is a really bad idea, even when there are other options. I have heard from various organisations that the price of operating these closed cash processing systems has come down to a level so that even the smallest kiosk or trader can handle it financially. So if there are other options, I think that is something we should pursue in committee. Now I may be overinterpreting, but I think I also heard from DF that the most serious argument was this robbery argument, and it is not necessarily something that must stand in the way of us choosing other solutions which also put the consideration of both the elderly, the vulnerable and others who would like to use cash in the first place. We are pleased that data protection has been included in relation to what may be used by information about what you spend your money on and what you have standing in the bank. On the other hand, and I could hear that before when I asked Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is somewhat uncertain about what the knowledge of what we spend our money on can be used for, also in relation to credit ratings and banks and lenders' role. In any case, I think we need to clarify this confusion with the Minister, because if it is the case that you have to get right into the heart of our person, our privacy and that is what we are spending our money on, that is, if it is to count, I simply think that you have gone too far. It is quite fair that banks and creditors should be able to have an overall view of our economy in order to be able to give a loan that is realistic and responsible, that goes without saying, but that is a concern we have and which I hope the Minister can either dismiss or at least answer. So it's a slightly mixed bag of caramels, you might say. We may be rather sceptical about this proposal, but it may be that we can become wiser or find some new solutions in committee work, so I am not going to say either yes or no here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153812	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153819	Thank you. It's always reasonable to spend a little extra time to get to grips with things. I think we all have a lot of respect for that, but I just have to stress that it seems a little weird. SF was opposed to liberalising the closure law, and SF was opposed to the Danes having the freedom to act at odd times of the day, because it seemed SF was completely unnecessary. And so today we have to hear SF say that it is unreasonable that the self-employed person should be open between 1 p.m. Ten o'clock and ten o'clock. 6, because it is up to oneself to decide to say that, for the sake of the security of the staff, this is done solely by means of card payments, i.e. electronic payments. So, does SF think it works like the most logical clutch?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328153916	At any rate, I do not see the logical link between the things presented by the rapporteur, because there have been various arguments for some of the points raised by the rapporteur. In relation to the closure law, it was very much about the conditions of employees, i.e. when and how to work, but I do not think it makes sense to open that discussion again today. But now that we have a system where there are shops open at odds, we think that the fact that we still have physical money, after all, is a completely fundamental part of the infrastructure of our society. I can see that we are moving towards an increasingly cashless society. I am also just pointing out that I think it is a forced digitalisation of some citizens who say: we know that we are not so many left, but we would like to be able to use cash. The rapporteur mentions this garbage argument, and I said just from up here that if there are other solutions to it, then that argument does not really matter because you will actually achieve the same or better security by having cash systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154034	Yes, but when you used to think it was unreasonable that people should be able to shop when it suits themselves best, I think it's all turned a little upside down here. But there's probably a place where we look at things very differently because if the cost according to SF isn't that great, I can't understand why stores haven't already done it. It's because it's so that it's just that I can't understand why we've had other debates in here too, why the discussion about staff security doesn't weigh so much that SF says: that opportunity must be provided so that if you're insecure about handling cash, you can avoid it during the time that is beyond the time when most people have had an opportunity to shop in. Because I agree that, of course, you have to be able to manage with cash between 1 p.m. 6 a.m. and 6 a.m. 10:00 p.m. or between 9:00 p.m. 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. 8:00 a.m. during the day. It is a little strange that, when you talk a lot about protecting employees, you think you can ignore that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154145	I am not going to put words into the rapporteur's mouth. However, I would like to refer to what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen said earlier and, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Pelle Dragsted also said that the primary argument is that there is some money to save. It is perfectly legitimate to have that desire on the part of the business community, but we are politicians, so we have to weigh up the different considerations. And so we think it's a good solution if there's an opportunity to have this cash payment system that doesn't even require an employee behind the box, but doesn't require you to have a debit card; you can put the cash in and get your change back. There are more and more shops that have that, and if it could be the solution, I think it's a good idea. And that is just what I called for us to discuss in committee, i.e. whether it could be the best solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154241	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154251	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the provision of electronic payment services remains up-to-date and reflects technological developments in this area. As mentioned earlier, the bill is a very comprehensive legislative proposal. Among other things, it contains: some implementations of two EU directives, the Second Money Services Directive and the Second E-money Directive, as well as some other modernisations of legislation in the area of payments. I would just like to take a few elements that we have discussed a little earlier in this debate and give them a few words on the road anyway. The proposal provides for a relaxation of the cash rule so that companies are not obliged to receive cash between 22 and 06 and in special areas of robbery from 8 a.m. 20, and this is a proposal that I really like. I think it makes sense not to require traders to receive cash at night for two reasons. Firstly, the handling of cash, especially during the night hours, has some costs, and that is some costs that ultimately only customers can pay. The cost of handling cash is increasing as fewer and fewer cash is used, i.e. handling costs per person. Unity is rising dramatically in companies. The second and most important reason, of course, is the safety of the employees. The night hours are therefore the time when there is the greatest risk of assault and robbery, and this is often the case, for example. gas stations and kiosks exposed. I think it makes sense that we are now giving the opportunity to refuse to accept cash at night. At the same time, the draft law also provides that for example: very vital products are not covered by these rules. The second element of the legislative proposal, which I would like to highlight, is the strengthening of the possibility for entrepreneurs in the fintech sector through the facilitation of authorisations to provide payment services for small businesses. The consultation has then given rise to a slight change in some things, i.e. among others. The fact that in the past only consumer scrutiny could only be established is now also possible, with the express consent of the consumer, to use it for advice, marketing, budgeting, etc. In this context, it has also been added that it must not be used for price discrimination, which I also think is very sensible, because price discrimination is difficult for the consumer to understand, and at the same time it is also a requirement that the consumer should not be forced to accept the processing of his data, for example. to have a credit card, that is to say, a consumer protection. Then I do not think I will mention any more of the elements of the draft law, but merely state that we support the legislative proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154533	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154539	What worries me a little about the rapporteur's speech is re-emphasising the costs to businesses. Because it is obvious that there are costs of handling cash. We have heard over the last few years that there are shops, such as: wants to be completely free from even operating with cash. That is why I would just like to ask: is that what the rapporteur is prepared for? Now we're gonna open it up between 2:00 a.m. 20 and 06. But what next time? Now that it has this cost to businesses, is the rapporteur also prepared for us to go further? Is this just the start of a slippery slope, where we are going to find ourselves in a situation where people who do not have access to credit cards and there are people who no longer have access to the same opportunities as all of us in order to actually go down and buy into all the shops we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154628	I don't know if I'd call it a slippery slope. Well, this is an opportunity for some stores to say for a while that they won't receive cash. But we must remember that this is entirely voluntary for companies. If it has become so effective and so modern that you can now buy some very cheap ATMs, I am sure there are also some kiosks who will do it because it is simply a good business. What is being opened up here is a very short period of time, and one must assume that it is a relatively small group that has a strong need to act exactly at this time. So I don't think this is a slippery slope. On the contrary, an opportunity has now been opened for some companies which, for reasons of safety and cost, may withdraw in cash for a very limited period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154711	So the rapporteur will not support us in one year or in two years' time to make certain shops or general shops for other periods cashless? Well, this isn't just the first step, for example. older people no longer have to be able to pay with cash in Denmark? That is just because it was a little bit what I heard the rapporteur say, or at least a little between the lines: that there was less and less cash and the costs got bigger and bigger, and that is why we had to take this step. But is this just the first step, or is it the last step for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154742	I think this step is primarily for security reasons. But there are also some costs for companies. I think I mentioned that in my speech. It is clear that we are now doing this for a primary safety concern, and if there are companies that turn and say that they, for example, are doing so. also feel insecure in other periods, or that development means that there may be less need for cash, so we need to look at it continuously. It's an ongoing process. What we have seen in this legislation is quite specific in relation to the night hours, when we have to assume that relatively few people are affected by the bill. On the other hand, it is a great cost for traders to have to have all this handling during the night hours, where it is a relatively small target group.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154820	With that, we thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister as far as we can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328154827	Thank you for your many comments. I think that I would like to begin by saying that we are of course examining the proposal in a technical way, as has also been proposed by the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen is going to be able to get to the bottom and in depth of the proposal, and then, in connection with that discussion, we will get out whether there are any misunderstandings or some unfinished business. Addressed to DF's rapporteur, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, I would say that I also think it is a good idea that, in view of the complexity of the proposal here, we should carry out an evaluation after two years instead of the three years proposed; I think we should continue with that. In general, I would like to thank you for your comments. I think it is important to emphasise that, also in the light of the many elements and the discussions that have taken place here, the aim of the draft law is to create a modern framework for the provision of electronic payment services, which reflect technological developments in this area and benefit consumers. That is the starting point. There is increasing digitisation, and what we can at least see is that there is a rapid development in the payment market, where a lot of new opportunities have been created in a short time to offer new innovative products. But once again, the starting point must be that it should be in the interests of consumers. I think it is important that we support that the payment services market offers cheap, competitive products and secures payments so that Danish companies and consumers get the full benefit of technological development. If we then turn to some of the things that the proposal contains and that I regard as the most important, then we can see that it is the case that the proposal here implements the Second Payment Services Directive in the European Union, PSD2. This means, first of all, that the legislation as something new separately regulates so-called third party providers who, on behalf of the user, can access their account account and either initiate a payment • it is the so-called payment initiation services or provide the consumer with a payment and consumption overview, and that is account information services. The proposal also implements new security requirements for electronic payments as well as the directive's ban on charging fees to the user in order to pay with the most common payment cards. With the proposal, the Government also proposes to relax a number of Danish special rules. This will strengthen the competitiveness of Danish companies in the internal market, but also ensure that Danish consumers have access to new innovative services. Firstly, I would like to emphasise that the draft law creates new opportunities for Danish companies to offer new payment solutions to consumers. The proposal makes it possible to offer a number of services that the legislation today does not allow, so that consumers have more opportunities to gain a better overview of their consumption, more relevant advice and more relevant marketing. This will ensure better opportunities for Danish companies to create more innovation in the market, and here I am thinking not least of the growing fintech industry in Denmark. But again, it is important for me to emphasise that we must ensure a high level of consumer protection. All processing of data can only be done with the express consent of the consumer. Data cannot continue to be used to set discriminatory prices, and it must be possible to obtain, for example: dankort, without one being obliged to accept that one's payment data is used in e.g. loyalty programs. Secondly, I would also like to emphasise that we are now proposing to relax the so-called cash rule. There have been a couple of exchanges of views about this during the afternoon. However, this means quite specifically that shops and other recipients will no longer be obliged to receive cash between the hours. Ten o'clock and ten o'clock. 6. At the same time, we allow payment recipients in the most robbed areas to choose to refuse cash as early as 1 p.m. 20. The proposal is to give shops a better chance of securing against robbery, but it is also important to be aware that there are still groups in society that have a special need to use cash. That is why the proposal will continue to require broad access to cash and there will be shops such as: 24 hours a day, where you have to continue to pay in cash 24 hours a day. Finally, the legislative proposal also removes a number of administrative burdens from small suppliers, so that this will be easier for, for example, small operators. Fintech entrepreneurs to get started getting their products out to users. Overall, I believe that the bill creates the framework for a better and cheaper payment market in Denmark, not least for consumers. In dealing with the legislative proposal in committee, I will, of course, answer all the questions that arise. We shall then take the first steps in connection with the technical review, and then we will have to have an ongoing dialogue on how to cut the proposal in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155345	We therefore wish to thank the Minister for the time being. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155354	Thank you, sir. President. I have a question for the Minister about what the Minister also mentioned, namely about third party providers and the new opportunities that lie in it with these payment initiation services and account information services. Some are concerned about the situation that may arise if a consumer has not made reservations about his or her data being used for registration. If you now come and want to take out a life insurance policy or health insurance, or whatever it may be, there may be someone who has an interest in knowing whether people consume a lot of medicine or consume a lot of alcohol or sweets, or whatever. There are always risks to it. Does the Minister consider the law to be a law that clearly ensures that one's purchasing information will not be misused in such a health profile?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155500-2	First of all, it is the case that you have to give your express consent to the use of the information. With regard to third party providers, the proposed law gives users a legal right to use third party providers. This means that banks must not block third party providers' access to users' accounts or otherwise discriminate against them. With that, I think we are strengthening the competition. However, the draft law also provides that consumer protection rules apply mutatis mutandis to third party providers as to other providers. In this way, consumers are always equally well protected. Then there are also some safety requirements to be met. I do not believe that there is any reason for concern about the exchange of health data. The crux of the matter is also that one should give one's express consent if one wants to pass on this information. However, this is one of the issues we can raise during the committee procedure and during the technical examination if there are any gaps in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155606	Thank you. That's exactly what I'm interested in. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I am well aware that you have to give your consent. Once you have done so, there must be an opportunity to withdraw it again. That is also something we need to discuss. In this way, if people change their mind as to whether their data may be used or not to be used, they can, of course, easily get out of this registration via their debit card. But it just doesn't change so much that some are worried that there may be people who don't take that reservation. Now the minister's looking down. I can understand that. I would like to be sure that health information will not be used against the individual consumer, for example. See if the person buys a lot of alcohol. It might be that some in the insurance industry were interested in knowing whether it is an alcoholic who wants to buy a life insurance policy. Thus they could have an interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155710	Firstly, when you give your express consent, you are also told under which conditions you give your consent. It is not the case that a third party will be able to use information that may harm people healthily. This applies to the concrete example, as Mr. His Kristian Skibby mentions. Some may have been worried about it, but it will not be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155743	The next question is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155744	Thank you. Following on from Mr. I would also like to ask Hans Kristian Skibby's question about payment services. Fortunately, the draft law states that consent must be given by the consumer himself. It has to be done with NemID, it also says in several places in the bill. What I'm looking for a little more in the bill is where it says how to get out of it again. If you, as a consumer, come into such an agreement and find out that you do not actually want to have an agreement with a payment service, how do you get out of it? Perhaps the Minister from the platform could give us some insight into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155821	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155822	My political approach to this question will be that if you have given your express consent to enter, you must, of course, also have the same opportunity to come out again. The bill will ensure that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155835	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155838	That sounds good. I also think that there should be an opportunity for consumers to think about once a year. I would like to know if there was a function in this, so that once a year with NemID you had to confirm that you would actually like to have this agreement going. Has the Minister considered this in order to ensure that, as a consumer, these things are always reconsidered and what has been set in motion by payment services?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155912	This is not immediately possible in the draft law. But, of course, there is the possibility that you can get out if you want to. But that is something that must be discussed politically. The proposal provides for the express consent of the person concerned to come under different conditions, which are explicitly described. We are, of course, giving the opportunity to get out again. Of course. But it is not planned to say that it is a little rhetorical that you have to give it consent every year. But we must discuss it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155952	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328155956	I am glad that the Minister says that we must have a political debate on this, because that is what we have today at first reading. The minister downplays like this and says that this is not a problem and that we are just giving some third parties some rights. Joachim B. Olsen about earlier and also mentioned from the platform but then I want to ask if it opens a barn door at the same time, in relation to what this information can be used for, that is, advice, campaigns, all sorts of things. I know the Minister says that it is people who have given their own consent, but perhaps they have given their consent to get a good one, in other words to get an overview of their finances and see what they are spending on their various posts. There are plenty of good, helpful things that you can use your bank to get an overview of your economy. But if you have agreed to it or agreed to some other benefits, at the same time you agree to marketing, to campaigns aimed at you, to advice. And what's advice? Is it that your bank says you spend quite a lot of money on Hariboslik, or whatever else you spend your money on? I think that is hugely cross-border. And that's why I wanted to have that discussion about what it really is that this is being used for. I understand that it must not be used for discriminatory pricing. But if you say... well, now the President stands up, sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160130	There may be another question. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160134	I have to say that I think there are unnecessary worries, and I do not know who has so put that germ on people's heads. Because this is going to be fenced in, so you give your express consent. And for the benefit of the consumer, for example. some marketing campaigns targeted at the consumer. It's actually fine if it makes some cheap offers that you might want to accept or not. And then, of course, we give you the opportunity to get out of it if you don't want to be part of it. I have no problem with targeting campaigns or offers to the individual once they have given their express consent. It's up to you. One must one hundred percent even if one gives explicit consent or not we live in a free world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160224	Then the questioner gets another chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160227	Thank you, President. Well, I just think there's a reason why our watchdog, the Consumer Council Think, has also shouted guard in the gun, because it's a blank cheque of dimensions to say that people may be forced to get advice about your or that or what the minister considers a gift, namely targeted advertising and promotions. I think that is cross-border. And that was the discussion we originally had on something that the Minister wanted to introduce, namely what our data should be used for. It's one of the most private things you spend your money on. People can have all kinds of interests that they spend money on and that they may want to keep to themselves. That is one of the things that says the most about us as people, that is, what it is that says on the net bank, what it is that you spend your money on. I do not think that is in any way clear enough in this draft law, and I think it is an obligation to make people very aware of what they are saying yes to if, for example, they say yes to it. just want a consumer overview.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160337	I really do not see any cause for concern, because these third-party providers will, of course, be subject to the same IT security requirements, to the use of data and to the limitation of consumer responsibility as traditional payment service providers. So the rules are fenced in, and they're crystal clear. And if you don't want to be involved, you can either stop going into it and give your express consent, or you can get out of it if you want to. Again: It is up to the consumer himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160413	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160416	It is an exciting discussion I have also asked five questions which follow up on some of the things that have been said. Instead, I would like to ask about a slightly larger political question. I heard that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten was at work before and asked the Conservatives' rapporteur about it. I didn't have time to hear the whole answer, so I'm gonna pick this up, too. Is it the Minister's idea that this bill is actually a first step towards accepting a cashless society? It's hard to predict, but that's one of the reasons why I might get a little on my hind legs when there's such a proposal coming up here. I can actually go far along the way to this with from 22 to 06. I can see some criticisms, and it may also be that we choose to act on them, but this is after all a limited period, and you can then try to hold your hand under that one way or another. But the discussion about the cashless society will be a discussion that we will have really, very many times. As the Minister stands right now, is that really something that could be accepted? Because I miss the fact that there are technologies in place to enable the citizen to make non-personal purchases. Well, if it's with cards that can be tracked back to who it is, and you can see what they bought, we're a place where you can't go and use cash for whatever you want, without people watching it. So could the Minister imagine, and will the Minister at this stage support, that we were aiming for a cash-free society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160536	I see that we are not ready for the cashless society yet. The technologies are not present, we do not have all generations with us. When we make a digital transformation, it is also important to get people with that is the experience I have also made myself politically. But that does not mean that it cannot result in it. It can mean much more security, it can mean much more service to all Danes, and it is the cheapest form of transaction. The most expensive form of transaction is cash, so society will be able to save some money. But right now, that's not what I see in front of me. This proposal is about delimiting it from 8:00 a.m. 10:00 to 10:00. 6 p.m. and from 6 p.m. Twenty in areas where there is a great deal of crime. And then I think it's important to remember that this doesn't mean you can't take cash there, it just gives you an opportunity not to take cash. So if these are areas where there are many people who are not on the digital structure with cards etc., then those shops will probably, if they are normal market people, of course, take cash. If you can't pay in any other way, that store will take cash.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160655	I would like to say very briefly that I think it is very welcome, because that would make it easier to deal with such a proposal here without looking at it as dystopically as we might otherwise do. I often think in the debate that it is presented as if this is the only way to go, i.e. the cashless society of digitalisation. And there are so many technological challenges yet that we need to overcome before that can be done without creating a system of massive monitoring potential, so I am pleased with the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160724-2	In any case, I can say that it will not be in this Assembly that we are putting forward proposals for the cashless society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160732	The Minister for Economic Affairs has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160752	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328160819	Thank you very much. The purpose of this bill is to change the loan limit for leisure homes, which in practice will mean that leisure homes not used for rental will be able to be borrowed up to 75%. as mortgages against the current 60%. In the Social Democratic Party we recognise that this bill has some positive effects if it is implemented as it stands. We recognise that it will strengthen the tourism industry; we recognise that there will be increased economic activity in those parts of the country that are most remote from the large cities; and we recognise that a higher level of financing with mortgaged housing loans will make holiday home buyers with smaller fortunes better. But, as you know, everything else is not equal, and if we go back to 2005, when the VK government opened up loans in cooperative housing, it led to a huge gain for those living in the apartments, and this led to increased prices for those buying the apartments. But the consequence was also that many borrowed too much and that some cooperative housing associations had fewer values than the loans they took. After all, this is a problem that we are still struggling with today, 12 years after we adopted it. The freer lending legislation really led to short-term gains for those who owned a dwelling, but also to uncertainty about the loans in a number of properties. It is with the history as a backdrop that the Social Democrat today reads the consultation response from the National Bank that warns against changing the loan limit for leisure homes. Allow me to quote a part of the answer from the National Bank: the market for leisure homes is moving more volatile than the market for single-family houses, which applies both to price levels and to sales activity. This makes lending more risky for credit institutions. The proposal to increase the loan limit is a step in the wrong direction, as it reduces the security of mortgage bonds. These are serious words from such an important institution as the National Bank. We in the Social Democratic Party therefore believe that we should proceed to this bill with extreme caution. Under no circumstances can we risk the security of our mortgage system, with the consequence that costs and uncertainty are increasing for ordinary parcel house owners everywhere in Denmark. Although there is no financial crisis right now, no one is saying that we cannot again end up in the situation we were in just 10 years ago, when more than 30 financial institutions were closed or subject to other institutions. This was a major disadvantage for ordinary employees who ended up paying a large part of the bill. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have not done our job in relation to this bill either. We would like to see the consultation response from the National Bank deepened and we would like an assessment from the Systemic Risk Board and other actors to help us get a precise picture of the risks associated with the bill. Once we have more and more accurate assessments from that edge, we will finally decide whether we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161112	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161116	Thank you. If you look at the reports from Finance Denmark, which is now an association with the participation of among others. It can be seen that, as has to be said, the Realkredit Council is some of those who have the greatest interest in the fact that there is great, high confidence in the Danish mortgage system, were out to report positively on that proposal. The response from Finance Denmark is also positive, and I do not think I reveal too much by saying that there are also a number of Socialist mayors who have welcomed the proposal. So I hope that the Social Democratic Party will think carefully and hopefully be strengthened that some of those who are also helping to guard the credibility of our mortgage system have accepted this proposal in a positive way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161206	I think that was a comment, but thank you for it. I would say that, of course, we have noticed the positive consultation responses, and of course we have talked to those of our mayors, who are mayors in municipalities where there are many leisure houses. It is clear that there is a positive attitude from there. We have also read the Ministry's reply to the National Bank that this is a relatively small percentage, but nevertheless one has to say that, and I think the rapporteur will agree with me that when the National Bank raises a flag and says that this is something that is risky for our mortgage system, we must at least ensure that it is examined very thoroughly before proceeding with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161242	There are no more questions, so we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161254	If you look at the legislative proposal we have just dealt with and then what is under consideration now, you can see that there is at least some difference between the amount of case papers. That is at least one of the first findings to be made. However, in the Danish People's Party we would like to sign the bill that the government has now finally put forward to allow a higher mortgage rate in Danish leisure homes. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been saying for a long time that we would very much like to take part in watching. It should not end in outbidding policy, but we have actually said that we would like to participate in a loan of 80%, according to the rules that we have on the ordinary private housing market. But enough about it. What is in the proposal is an increase from 60%. 75 per cent, and we also believe that in the Danish People's Party this is of absolute benefit to Denmark and to the Danish homeowners. There are several different purposes to it, and it is also stated in the Minister's written submission that there are a number of purposes to it, and we are in fact in agreement with them in the Danish People's Party. We believe that precisely by ensuring a cheaper mortgage model for Danish leisure homes, it will provide more opportunities to invest in a leisure home. There are several who will be able to overcome the economic part of it without taking a risk. Secondly, it will also be the case that perhaps we can look forward to considering removing a number of the very mature houses we have back from the 1960s and also from the early 1970s, and that you can invest in building a new cottage on your summer cottage. Then there are also the many places where we can see that there is some backlog on the maintenance of existing leisure houses in Denmark. This is something that has been pointed out in many places, precisely in relation to the fact that at certain times of the year there are so many who want to rent Danish holiday homes that there have not been enough housing on the market. If we are to be able to attract Norwegian, Swedish and German as well as all sorts of other tourists to rent Danish leisure homes, they must also be of a certain standard. That's what you ask for. That is what the rest of us will require if we take advantage of leisure accommodation in other countries. It makes good sense that with this bill we make it cheaper and easier for people to invest in real estate, including in a summer house, to the delight of families. That is why we believe that this is a very good proposal. We can support it unconditionally, but I would like to say that at the same time we think that the government should consider something that we have also proposed in the Danish People's Party, namely that there should be the same funding conditions for campsites. We think it would be quite appropriate for the campsites to have the same opportunity to receive funding for their investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, so now it is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328161554	I have to say, I've been looking forward to today. Because I've been looking forward to dealing with this bill which, as I said, will increase the mortgage credit limit for summer homes for leisure purposes from 60 to 75%. Indeed, the proposal will make it cheaper to mortgage summer houses, since the interest rate on mortgage loans is quite significantly lower than, for example, a bank loan. Lower loan costs will allow more Danes to buy a summer house. It will be cheaper to borrow for major renovation projects, for example, and it will also be cheaper to finance new construction of the up to 6,000 summer houses that we are about to have on the market with the agreement on a modernised planning law. The proposal will thus support a summer cottage market that, unfortunately, is still a little underturned, and getting a little more momentum in the market will mean that we can get more cottages for rent, and it will also support tourism in Denmark and the coastal tourism that really means a lot in our rural municipalities. In recent times we have seen that in a number of areas there is actually a shortage of holiday homes during the high season, and it is a pity that accommodation is not provided for tourists who come to the country to enjoy Denmark. Last summer I presented this proposal for a higher lending limit, and since then the Left Government has only included it in the national tourism strategy from last autumn, and this is also reflected in the government basis of the VLAK government. Clarification by the European banking supervisory authorities in January removed the last barrier to the implementation of the proposal. So far, it has been considered that only full-year homes could be mortgaged up to 80%. with mortgage loans, but with the clarification from the European banking supervisory authorities it is now clear that it is also possible for summer houses. In the bill, we set a limit of 75%. and then, for example, lay down. a little extra security, as it is to be expected that homeowners will be more willing to pay in relation to their perennial residence. And that also matches a number of our neighbouring countries. Since I presented the proposal, I have received an incredible number of questions on the status of the proposal. Potential buyers are ready, because lower loan costs mean that they will now realize the dream of a summer house. The other day I spoke to an existing summer cottage, which was in front of a renovation of its summer cottage. And if the proposal here comes into being, the message was clear: then he would choose the big renovation project, and the craftsmen were already ready. The reports on the proposal have generally been very positive. I have also noted the consultation response of the National Bank, but I believe that if you look at it over time, price developments on the summerhouse market are significantly different from those on all-year houses and condos and others, who certainly also have an interest in the credibility of the Danish mortgage system, also backs up. This applies to Finance Denmark, Dansk Industri and Dansk Real estate association, which has been positive. This also applies to the Holiday Rental Association, and mayors from the parties in both the red and the blue block in the Folketing have also expressed a positive opinion. It may not be so often that we here in the Folketing can make legislation that is widely considered to benefit growth in Denmark and especially growth in our rural areas, without it being something that requires funding and must be combined with elements that may not always be equally nice. But we can actually do that with this proposal, and I therefore hope that we will have broad support for the proposal so that it can be ensured that the proposal comes into force on 1 May and that the impact of the proposal can be translated quickly to the benefit of growth in Denmark. For it is a good proposal that gives positive elements to areas of Denmark where, fortunately, we can now see that growth has come. This is the consequence of a number of initiatives under Left-wing governments, but there is therefore a need to continue to ensure positive developments, and this proposal here will clearly contribute to this. That is why, of course, we in the Left support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162019	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162023	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur has noted the comments made by the National Bank, and I think that is perhaps such a little laissez-faire, so the National Bank rarely speaks in as harsh terms as they do in the consultation answer to this bill, where they directly advise against this amendment. They also say that it can reduce the security of the Danish mortgage bonds. And then the rapporteur says that this is a proposal where there are only good elements and that there are no risks or negative elements associated with it. In other words, if we have a reduced confidence in mortgage bonds, I can tell the rapporteur and I think the rapporteur knows that it can have very, very negative consequences for all the Danes who already have increases in fees and what else we have are hard pressed. So I wonder why the Left can take so lightly the warning expressed by the National Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162124	But I think that if you look at the figures, there is nothing to suggest that prices should develop as differently as the National Bank indicates in a way. I must say that I am also impressed by the fact that other players who have at least the same interest in full confidence in the Danish mortgage system are positive. And I also believe that the Enhedslisten is aware that we on the Left would not have proposed this at the time if we had not been sure that this could be ensured within a mortgage system, which we otherwise across the party in the Folketing are doing the very best to protect. And I don't think we're gonna put that at risk with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162212	But it was the same thing, the Left and, unfortunately, many other parties in the Danish Parliament also said when they made up the long series of liberalisations through the '00s • flex loans, grace-free loans, the cooperative loans that the former rapporteur mentioned and which, according to the Rangvid report, were some of the main reasons why Denmark was so badly hit by the crisis. It's like memory is so short, so short. Well, you do it, of course, because you think it's uh, so good, and then you can borrow something more. But you forget the consequences that may be on the other end. And it annoys me that you don't have much more thought in relation to these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162247-2	Many people have expressed their views on the proposal. However, even if these three initiatives, if implemented, are overall in a positive direction, it is not a question of reversing the prospects for the summer house market. It will continue to be characterised by a high supply of housing for sale, and we therefore do not expect to see any major price increases in the summer house market in 2017. That's what Realkredit Denmark's chief economist said. And it is clear that we would not make a proposal if we were afraid that it would weaken the Danish mortgage system. But we are in a situation where we can see that the summer home market has been frozen for a very, very long time, and I therefore have the political approach to it, that if you can make it cheaper for the Danes to buy a summer house, if we can reduce the costs so that more people can realise the dream, so that we can do something that creates growth in our summerhouse areas, then I think it is really, really sensible. And that is our ambition with the proposal, in other words to ensure that our summer cottage areas get moving more, that more renovation projects are carried out and that more Danes can afford to buy a summer cottage. We basically think this is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162400	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur and move forward. That's exactly what Mr. Knox said. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162418	As has been shown, this bill is about increasing the lending rate for leisure accommodation from the current 60%. 75%. The Government's intention, therefore, is to get the trade in leisure homes going more, as they say, and as we have also heard the rapporteur justify it. In the Enhedslisten, we are very concerned about this proposal and are opposed to it. Firstly, we do not really understand the timing. It is true that there has been a period in which the summer house sales have been ill. It is probably very natural in a time of crisis that one of the areas where you will be able to see a reaction most quickly is such a thing as leisure homes. It's a luxury. In times when the Danes have had to keep a little on the money and have not known if the future was uncertain, it is one of the places where you hold back. But now we are on our way out of the crisis. We can already see that prices are rising. We may have several summer houses being converted, and therefore it is a little strange that the Left is sticking to this proposal, which was perhaps well timed 4-5 years ago, but which, to put it mildly, seems superfluous today. The second thing I want to say is really much, much worse. With this proposal, the government is repeating the sins of the past. We know from among other things. The Rangvid report and from many other researchers that one of the reasons why Denmark was so badly hit by the financial crisis compared to many other countries was the way we had liberalised our mortgage lending in the years up to. This long series of well-intentioned initiatives • interest-free loans, flex loans and other risk-bearing loans created a housing bubble that burst when the crisis hit. This meant that many, not least outside the big cities, became insolvent. And this meant that people, because they were under pressure, kept on the money with the result that the economic recovery in Denmark took much longer than in many of our neighbouring countries. If anyone has time, I think they should try to take a trip back to the '00s and read some of the rapporteur's speeches, as my former colleague Mr. Frank Aaen held down here in the hall when a majority carried out these risky forms of loans. He warned at that time that it would lead to bubbles that could pose a serious threat to financial stability and that it would be a really good business for those who owned a dwelling, but that it would be more expensive for those who were going to buy a home. We just have to conclude today that Mr. Frank Aaen was right. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the same parties should now be faced with similar mistakes which cost the Danes so dearly. I think we are tempted to say: have we even learned anything from the financial crisis? We don't need any more of that economy on steroids. We do not need more free value-based consumption. We need a stable economy. We do not need to repeat the mistakes that were made. It's the wrong way. It is not a debt economy that we must have. We need a productive economy that is in balance and where we do not take these risks that had such major consequences. It is also worth noting that the National Bank, in its consultation answer, clearly advises against the adoption of this proposal. It states that it will reduce the collateralisation of mortgage bonds in general. It's very serious. It is not just the cottage owners, but all homeowners who will be affected if the confidence in the Danish mortgage bonds falls. So the government is playing with fire here. I just think we should be fully aware of that. The government's argument is that it takes social considerations into account and that these new rules will make it easier for people who do not have so much money to buy a holiday home. This kind of thing must always be held up against the interests of financial stability. It's always nice to be able to borrow money cheaper. It just sometimes has some consequences at the other end for how our economy is connected. But I also believe that the argument does not stand in its own way. What happens when you raise the level of lending or, at the very least, lower the cost of borrowing is that it typically puts you at one in prices. People will be able to pay more, they will be able to afford to buy more expensive, and then the prices of the homes will rise, because then you can afford to buy a more expensive home or a more expensive leisure home. So it means to those who are going to buy a home that it doesn't make any difference. They can borrow something more, yes, up to a higher limit. But the amount they are going to borrow has, in turn, increased. It is, of course, a pleasure for those who have to sell their holiday home that they can then get a work-free and tax-free return, but I do not think there is the point of the proposal. So the Enhedslisten is voting against the proposal and I hope that the Social Democrats will stand firm on their scepticism this time. Social democracy also helped to achieve many of the liberalisations of the forms of loans that were implemented through the '00s with the consequences it had. I hope that lessons have been learnt from this at least on the left of the Parliamentary Chamber, because then it may be that we can clean up again when the government changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162946	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328162951	Thank you. I still remember that for about. Ten years ago, in connection with the financial crisis, Enhedslisten had a proposal in this Chamber that the state should buy all Danish foreclosures at parcel houses, and then those who lived in the parcel houses in question would have the money from the state, and then they would have to live for a reasonable rent, which they could now afford. I believe that this contrasts somewhat with what the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten says, where the rapporteur says that we should not build a debt economy. In fact, I think it is a debt economy when Enhedslisten seriously proposes that the state should buy Danish foreclosures from Danish homeowners and then let people stay for what they could now pay in the same homes. That's what Enhedslisten stood for 10 years ago. And I just want to ask: is it still gone Enhedslisten's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163050	I was not elected to the Folketing then, but I can put it this way that Enhedslisten's policy is at least that it is a problem when it is ordinary people who are affected by a crisis that they have had nothing to do with, and that is what happened after the financial crisis. Other countries, e.g. Iceland, the socialist government that was up there, actually took some steps to protect the property owners, among others. by stopping completely foreclosures for a period of several years, despite the fact that many could not afford to pay off their debt. So yes, we think that Denmark was too busy saving banks and was too little concerned with helping the many homeowners, especially in the outskirts, who were hard hit by the crisis that a completely speculative and irresponsible behaviour up at the top of Denmark had helped to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163142	But you have to admit that it is a debt economy that you build when you use state money to finance the purchase of Danish foreclosures. That's what Enhedslisten wanted back then. But I'd like to ask you something else. After all, with this bill, it will be possible to obtain a higher level of financing from mortgage banks, which is cheaper to borrow money from than from banks. Doesn't Enhedslisten have a tradition of being against loans and greedy people in suits and everything that sits in the banks and earns too much interest? With this bill, you actually want to move part of the loans away from the banks and into the mortgage banks. Why is it that Enhedslisten actually defends that debt should be over in the banks, where consumers have to pay a higher interest rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163226	In relation to the first, I would like to say that we think it would be good if the public sector stepped up more as a landlord. In the past, the City of Copenhagen had a large property company and access to many thousands of apartments. This meant that they could also be assigned, for example. people who had financial difficulties. This has been abandoned, and we think that is a pity. I think it was a sensible proposal at the time if someone could have been helped to stay in their homes by transforming them from owners into tenants until they might again have been able to buy their property. As far as the second question is concerned, as the rapporteur knows, it is true that, unfortunately, most mortgage credit institutions have been taken over by the banks, and that is one of them. That is why we see the enormous increases in the contribution rates. So it is the case that today it has all become a big mess too, unfortunately with the voice of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163317	The next question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163321	I assume, then, that it is also clear to Enhedslisten that it is of course cheaper for the individual to take a mortgage than a bank loan. I find it rather difficult to follow that logic that it is about making it as expensive as possible, as few people as possible have access to buy a holiday home. I read an announcement about this proposal, which highlighted that it could in fact also benefit tenants and shareholders who do not have a free value they can borrow in their existing permanent residence. There are probably many in the housing market in the metropolitan area, where the price of full-year residence has increased, who have been able to take an increased mortgage in their full-year house and thus freed money to buy a summer house. However, in those parts of the country where housing prices have remained relatively stable for a long time, that possibility is not available, nor is it for tenants and shareholders. Then it is strange that Enhedslisten stubbornly insists that they should be cut off from being able to acquire a summer house, because Enhedslisten will not support making it a little cheaper to borrow a summer house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163437	I would like to say two things. First of all, it's always nice if you can borrow cheaper. We can also set the mortgage rate up to 100%.; we can make even more far-reaching repayment-free loans; we can return to having only repayment-free loans; we can abolish the supervisory diamond and all the other things we have introduced after the financial crisis, because then it will be cheaper. However, this is at risk of having some consequences for financial stability, and that is what the National Bank warns against. That's the first thing. You know, you gotta keep things against each other. Secondly, I also believe that the rapporteur ignores the fact that when these changes are made, in other words new lending opportunities, there is a tendency for it to fall into prices very quickly. This means that prices are rising, and then the person who does not have much money to buy a holiday home is in the same way. But it is clear that anyone selling his summer house will be able to get a large tax-free return.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163535	It sounds as if Enhedslisten doesn't see any advice going on before you can get a loan offer and that your economy is being checked so you can't borrow for inappropriate purchases. Of course, there must be a link between one's economic situation and what one can borrow for. I think that should be fairly clear. Otherwise, I hope that the rapporteur will also be aware of the fact that, in my rapporteur's speech, when, at the same time as the modernised planning law that we are discussing here, we increase the number of holiday homes by 6 000, it will also have an impact, because that would mean that the offer of holiday homes will increase. When the price of lending the house you want to build becomes lower, then it has a positive effect on the individual, and if you have to take Enhedslisten's words at face value that this will put you into the price, you should remember that the supply is increasing as part of the planning agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163642	I fully acknowledge the latter. It is clear that if you increase the supply of cottages, it will have an effect on prices. Then there may be other things, environmental considerations and all sorts of other things in relation to the planning law I am not thoroughly aware of, there is another of my skilled fellow members of the parliament who are taking care of that. But I fully acknowledge that. On the other hand, the rapporteur said that I was not talking about the individual's financial situation. It was the social financial stability that I was talking about. I just have to say that I am surprised that you have that view when you have been in here during the period of the financial crisis that we have been through and you have read the Rangvid report and so on. These were exactly the same arguments used at the time, namely that it should be good for homeowners and that it should be easier and cheaper to borrow. It was also cheaper, but it had just some huge social consequences, which meant that Denmark was significantly harder hit by the financial crisis than many other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163737	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328163748	Thank you for that, President. This is the second good bill that I am helping to deal with today. That is something to be appreciated, because it is not always so lucky that there are two good legislative proposals in one day, but there are today, and this is certainly a good legislative proposal. The lending limit for leisure homes is raised from 60%. 75%. I think that is very sensible. We could've agreed, too, as sir. Hans Kristian Skibby mentioned setting it up to 80%, but this is definitely a step in the right direction. Many of the arguments that I am going to use have been taken into account, but perhaps I can clarify the answer to the question put earlier by Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen, that is, this is an equality that is taking place, between owners of housing, who have a free value and who will be able to use the free value to buy a leisure home, and tenants, because they do not have that option today. I think that's a good thing. If I have a free value in my house, I'll be able to go down to a mortgage house, and then I'll be able to use the free value to buy a leisure home. I think that is fair enough. But it is unreasonable that, if you are a tenant, you are at a disadvantage if you, for example, are at a disadvantage. lives in Copenhagen and wants a summer house to get to the countryside. There are people today who can really mortgage their holiday homes up to 100% because they happen to have some free value in their own homes. So it is in every possible way a good proposal that we are discussing today, I think. Then I'll address the National Bank's hearing response. I have the pleasure of sitting in the National Bank's Board of Governors myself, and I think that the National Bank has a rather strange approach to many things in these times. It is as if every time something happens, or if a political proposal comes forward, they are crying out: overheating the economy. They just do that all the time, and maybe they end up getting right sometime, but it doesn't make it very serious that you keep yelling: the wolf is coming. And right in this area, on such a small part of the housing market, I think it's very weird. I was very puzzled by their hearing response. But now, that's the way it is. However, in our view, this is a very, very good legislative proposal, which, of course, we wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164117	Thank you very much, there are a few brief comments. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164121	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Left also mentioned this, but now that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur was so polemical in relation to the National Bank's response to consultation, I almost have to ask about it. Because we have here an institution, the National Bank, which has a very deep knowledge of how such things work here. How can the rapporteur simply reject the concerns that have been expressed without further clarification and without further clarification, for example? How does the Systemic Risk Board, where the National Bank also has its place, relate to this? So, isn't it to make yourself smarter than a very, very highly specialized institution, which we should all have confidence in?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164207	Yes, we should have confidence in the National Bank, which is why I think it is a pity that they continue to say the same thing in a large number of areas. Well, they're talking about the risk of overheating in a situation where we have 1.6%. growth. When they make recommendations, it is that we must keep public spending low, pursue a strict fiscal policy, but they dare not go on to say: well, it would probably also be sensible to increase the supply of labour, etc. I don't think it seems that serious. I think it seems as if they are taking some political... yes, as if there is a little too much politics in their recommendations, and I think that is a pity, even for the debate to which they could contribute more constructively. I think it is quite out of the question to raise the loan limit from 60 to 75%. Perhaps this is about a guilty conscience that they did not issue warnings before the crisis, and then they just come with warnings all the time now. It's a bit to go to the other ditch, and I don't think that's serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164320	I just need to make sure I heard it right. Does the rapporteur think that in their recommendations the National Bank is political? That was the wording I heard, then, that it is not a professional assessment, but simply a political assessment? For then, at least something must be done, so it must be a proposal for a further assessment of the role of the National Bank. I would also like to ask: does the rapporteur not agree that in Denmark we were in a very exceptional situation in 2007 and 2008, when our banks actually collapsed before the American banks, and that our problems were significantly greater than in all other Nordic countries, and therefore we should also exercise extraordinary caution in relation to these things here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164404	Well, the fall in the housing market was before the financial crisis came. The fall started already in 2007, and the crisis came in 2008, so that that close link between price increases and the financial crisis doesn't quite hold up. The Rangvid report also stressed this, namely that many other countries also experienced housing bubbles. It was not something that only happened in Denmark. But if I may put it very briefly: yes, I think we might need a discussion about the National Bank sticking more to what they are set up in the world for, and not talking about everything else. I think they do too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164455	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164458	My fellow rapporteur is so quiet. I think what we're hearing here is terrifyingly frightening. In other words, we have a representative of a governing party who is standing and avoiding our central bank, calling it politically and saying that it has some strange views and that it has to fulfil its core task. Indeed, the core task is to look to financial stability and monetary stability in Denmark. That is their core task. I think what we're hearing here is gonna be a little tricky, like when Trump talks about a so-called judge when there's a verdict against him. I hope that when the Minister comes up here in a few moments, he will see whether he agrees with this very violent criticism of the National Bank. I think it is a dangerous undermining of an important financial institution, which is thus raising a warning flag here, of course, not for political reasons, but because they are concerned that this might threaten financial stability in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164607	That was a violent announcement, I thought. It is perfectly legitimate to discuss what the National Bank says. It's perfectly legitimate. There is a discussion between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, as well as discussions between the Ministry of Finance and the wise men, etc. Those discussions are going on all the time. When the National Bank makes some recommendations, or when they start talking about overheating and talk about it all the time in the situation we are in now, I am perfectly entitled to say that I think it is neither sensible nor right. It's not trumpish or anything else. I think they're spreading out too much. It is a position which I am perfectly entitled to have and which is also shared by others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164705	Well, I just have to say that we have a government party that believes that one of our most important financial monitoring institutions in Denmark, namely the National Bank, is political and shouts: the wolf is coming. In fact, I find that extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164723	Well, I'm not in the government. I sit in the Folketing and have the right to have opinions, including what the National Bank says. The minister sits in the government and has to explain what the government's position is. It is the division of power that is in Denmark. It's such a democracy ABC, sir. Pelle Dragsted. As a member of the National Bank's Board of Governors, I certainly have the right to deal with what the National Bank says. And after they have for a long time said that the wolf is coming or has talked about the risk of overheating in a situation where we have 1.6 per cent. I believe that growth is in line with what a large number of economists also believe it is not a professionally correct assessment. That's the way it is. There are discussions in these areas. They should be there, they shouldn't be held down by calling people who start them "trampy." I find that worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164826	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next one, sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328164835	Thank you. I have enjoyed the debate and it has proved to be very fundamental and indeed very significant in terms of what we want to do about political problems. In fact, I think I have come one step closer, which is why it is that in the alternative we are sometimes a little awkward about the consideration that may be both in the population and among colleagues and in the media that we have not really understood the figures, or that we have looked at our arithmetic models or thought that our criticism of one or the other is not really legitimate. Because just when we hear the excellent introduction of the Social Democrat Party, sir. Kaare Dybvads looked back at the relaxed lending that was in relation to e.g. The cooperatives in the '00s, and what it was all about there, and who it was that benefited greatly from the lending, therefore, those who already sat in the homes and then look at the bill that is here, then I could, as I probably could then, want to say: Well, let those who want to have a summer house and have the dream lived out, have a little more relaxed conditions. But that is not what we are talking about here. It is precisely to look at the National Bank's answer and look at what the wise men say when we talk about housing taxes. I mean, is this the moment we're about to relax? Because that is actually going quite sensibly. We have a home bubble that can blow up. We have seen them blow up before, and there was not necessarily a majority to say that we should be careful now. Well, the interesting thing here is to say, who are we taking care of? Is it some people's interests, or is it Denmark's interests? And I am not going to shoot the government or any particular parties in the shoes, that only a small part of the population is concerned. But I would just like to say in relation to the belief that we care about those who have the means to buy a cottage on these new conditions, even though you may be a little pressured financially, that they are not necessarily the ones who usually talk about when we talk about the need to be careful not to raise housing taxes, for example. When we talk about raising housing taxes in relation to those who could leave house and home, as has been said, I would say that these are the ones who are on the verge of being able to pay every month. Here it is said that if we do this, there are some who can use their free value to go out and spend on a dream, that is, a new home, a leisure home. And it is from this perspective that in the alternative we have to stand firm that, no, we cannot support this amendment of the law. We look back on history and listen very carefully to the advice of the National Bank that in a sensible upward market it might be more appropriate to save this opportunity for at a time when it is really needed, in other words when you want to kick the economy off. So I have to say that I do not think it is the welfare of society that we take care of here. I think it is some people's interests that we take care of, some people who want more of the good stuff, and I think that is good; we in the alternative do not feel sorry for that, but it is just too bad if it actually goes beyond the part of the social cake that should come to those who would like to have a little more, in order that they might also feel well. And that's where we end up here. Because when we also talk about planning law, and when we talk about thinning for several reasons of summer, I see it as such that it will probably end up being those who have good money that will benefit from this. And that's why I'm not so much for the thesis that we're helping some people who aren't so well-off to come out and get summer homes or summer homes. It may be a small part of it, but as Mr. Pelle Dragsted said just now, there's a market moving at the same time. So in the alternative, we are very sceptical about this bill and I cannot see us voting for it. It is not to stifle someone's dream of a summer house, but it is simply to deal with the potential overheating, as the National Bank also points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165238	There are two slightly contradictory considerations in the draft law before us here. On the one hand, there is the Government's desire to make it a little easier to borrow for the renovation, purchase and construction of holiday homes, which are typically located in the outlying areas, in the rural areas of Denmark, where there is also a tourism industry that can take place and where we know there is a lack of housing. We believe that this is actually a very laudable purpose on the part of the radicals. But on the other hand, the concern is whether this can lead to an overheating and whether it is the right time or whether you risk exposing this limited group of borrowers to some kind of risk and making a home bubble of what we have seen before. I do not want to hide the fact that I have, as a starting point, proposed this proposal for a positive reception in the radical group, because, after all, I think that the part of the mortgage represented by this kind of loan is so small a part of the total mortgage lending that I do not think it will pose the very great danger of a greater heatening. But on the other hand, contrary to what several other rapporteurs have said, I am always impressed by the fact that the National Bank is screaming in arms, and that is why I agree with the idea which, among other things, has been adopted. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said that we are using the committee procedure to ask us, for the sake of good order, for some other experts, but for our part, mostly to be reassured that we can vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Radical Left SF, sorry. We thanked the Radical Left and welcome the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165434	We have also discussed this proposal in our parliamentary group and can actually look both for and against from the outset, because as several have said, it is summer houses that are often located in rural municipalities, located in parts of the country, where there is a desire to get sales going and where there are also a number of challenges. In fact, we think this is quite important, even when we have seen that the development of the summer house sales has been stable, relatively low, since the crisis. On the other hand, there are also the objections raised by several of my colleagues from the centre-left that we have to think a lot about when we raise these mortgage lending limits, because you will use part of your free value if you have an owner's residence to finance a summer house, which then again comes up to a loan limit of 75%. Then we just put ourselves in a more vulnerable position compared to the time when interest rates are rising. Now we have had low interest rates for a long time, and then we may get into such a false security that it will remain that way, but there is nothing that can guarantee us that it will continue to be so. Then there is also the difference between a leisure area, a leisure home and a primary home, that once you start to risk what to say more of your economy compared to the second accommodation, it is a different situation. After all, our mortgage system is primarily to ensure that many people can get a home for relatively cheap money. When I say relative, it is of course because, in this case too, we have a continuous discussion on increasing contributions and fees, etc., but this is another discussion. That's why we tend to say no to this proposal. We believe that this is a massive increase. It's not just a few percent, it's 15 percentage points increase. We think it is a lot to put it so high both in relation to the safety of the individual owner and in relation to the economy as a whole. So I would also like to congratulate the Socialists on their initiative in saying: let us meet, let us get some more on the ground, let us hear the National Bank again. There are also other critical voices out, or at least some that call for caution, among others. Morten Chess, home economist. This does not necessarily mean that we cannot change anything, but at least we should not throw out the experience of the last ten years of bathing water and then just throw ourselves into something that could prove to be risky if interest rates just rise by a few percentage points again. So we'll get back to you. I hope that we can implement some of those initiatives and become a little wiser, and then we will have to take the discussion again at second reading. I think it could be very useful that at least those of us who have something new to say or repeat bring it up. Anyway, we're very skeptical about this bill from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165816	In doing so, we thank the Socialist People's Party and give the floor to Mr Conservative People's Party. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328165826	Thank you. As you know, the bill is about raising mortgage lending for leisure homes from 60%. This is, of course, a proposal which the Conservative People's Party can support. When you extend the loan limit to mortgage lending, you also make it cheaper to finance the purchase of cottage and renovation of existing cottage, but most importantly, I think, we also make it cheaper to build new cottages, and it runs completely with the ambitions that we have in the new planning law that we are currently dealing with. It has just been agreed that thousands of new holiday homes should be set up, summer homes which can now be built with cheaper funding and thus benefit tourism throughout the country. When I am particularly enthusiastic about this particular element of the bill, it is because it helps to strengthen tourism, which in many outermost regions may be the answer to converting to development. This has increased tourism, which in the future will be able to make a major contribution to reversing the negative developments in many areas, because tourism benefits the local community very widely. Increased tourism provides jobs both for the local craftsman, the restaurants and in the commercial and experience industries. Therefore, cottages also support the market for full-year residence and thus the general price formation on the housing market in those areas where it is otherwise really difficult. The proposal will also lead to more access to the summer house market, with the share to be financed in addition to mortgage loans being reduced. This will all the other things being equal lead to a summer house market that is more supported, especially in areas where there is a weak demand, and that again is probably likely, we must assume, precisely those areas where it is already very difficult to create jobs. So all in all, I think it is an excellent proposal, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170021	Mr President, there is a brief comment from the Socialist rapporteur. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170026	Thank you. Much of what the rapporteur says is true to that extent, but when the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur reads the consultation answer from the National Bank, which warns that this can create uncertainty about mortgage credit in Denmark, is it not something that worries the Conservative People's Party, which, in a broad sense, is going through the breach for houseowners around the country? At least that's what you see in their campaigns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170059	I have, of course, also read the consultation reply from the National Bank, and I have also followed the debate here today. But I want to say that it's not something that makes me shake my hand. We must remember that the proportion of mortgage lending on the summer house market is a very marginal part of the total mortgage market. That's 2.80%, I think it is. This means that it is a very small part of the mortgage market and that this small part is slightly increased, should have this great consequence, I simply cannot see for myself. There are also quite a few other economic experts who support the fact that this is of very marginal importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170139	This is, in fact, the same thing that we hear from the other two bourgeois rapporteurs who say, with reference to other economists, that this professionally-founded concern in the National Bank does not have to worry about here in the Folketing. Now I've been trying to look through the hearings and I don't know what kind of economists they are. I'm not quite sure. I almost have to know whether the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party agrees with what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said earlier, namely that the National Bank is too political and simply uses it here as an opportunity to conduct policy. Or what exactly is it that one disagrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170221	I don't have anything like that to put off at the National Bank in general, if that's what you're saying, sir. Kaare Dybvad is asking. What you have to remember is that it is not the case that you just let go and say that now you can just borrow freely. You still have to go through a credit rating like everyone else. This bill doesn't change that. What is new is that you will have access to cheaper funding if you are also granted credit. It's gonna support the market out locally. Now there are some new holiday homes, and I think it is fantastic if we can have those summer homes built and have an increased demand for holiday homes, because it will create growth and development throughout Denmark, because we know precisely that the tourism industry is one of the things that helps to support growth and development throughout Denmark. So it is true that this is a very small part of the mortgage market, and that is why I do not share the concern that this is what makes the mortgage market uncertain. I simply do not believe that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170315	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170322	Thank you. It concerns the matter here with the National Bank and what they generally warn about in relation to a concern for some sort of overheating of the economy. If you set up this loan limit, it will probably also mean that the homeowners who already have a summer house will have a significantly increased opportunity to borrow their free value. Is the rapporteur not concerned that with this we are going to breathe into such a loan-based consumption, which was exactly what preceded the financial crisis and the very, very negative derived effects it had on the economy? So, the Conservative People's Party is, after all, a party that has historically stood for, what can be said, the more productive part of the economy and perhaps not the more financial part. It may well be that you have become more engaged to that part in recent years, but I just want to ask: do you not have a concern that this could help trigger such a loan-based consumption that is unhealthy for our economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170430	I don't see how this changes anything compared to what the rules are today. After all, these are exactly the same rules that must be assessed, and that is to say, when you are granted a loan or funding through your bank, there are exactly the same rules today as there will be after this bill has been implemented. The new thing is that the type of loan you can get changes from a bank loan to a mortgage. But the credit clearance is completely unchanged. So you will have access to cheaper funding; your total financing package to finance a holiday home will be cheaper, but the credit rating you are going through is completely unchanged. So this law doesn't change who gets to borrow for what. What you can hope for is that someone can borrow cheaper, and then they can use some of it to perhaps modernise the summer houses. This can be hoped for, because it will create employment for example. I simply do not share the concerns expressed by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170528	There is probably the difference that if I have bought a house yesterday or before the bill is passed and have mortgaged it to the limit of what I can within the current rules, then the new rules will allow me to mortgage it further. I guess that's a difference from today. That's what's happening with this bill, and I guess that's what the National Bank is pointing out, in other words, that there's a risk of getting a home bubble and breathing into some loan-based consumption that's not positive, and certainly not in the current situation. Then we can discuss this with growth of 1.6 per cent, and that is, of course, because you may have the assumption that this is the level that growth is going to lie on in the future, and it is then thought that there may be an overheating at the same time as a growth of 1.6 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170621	The National Bank points out, among other things. that one of the risk elements of this is that the holiday home market should be more volatile than the general housing market. There's just no indication of that if you're looking at historical data. Maybe they're looking into some kind of math model, which gives it the output that this should be more volatile. But if you look at the figures back from 1992 or something like that, then there is no indication that there should be greater volatility in exactly the recreational market than there is in the general housing market, so there are some of the concerns that have been expressed, which I just do not share. In relation to credit ratings, I am quite convinced that that credit rating has not changed just because there is a new type of loan. After all, you still have to be rated at the same amount in your bank or obtain funding yourself if you cannot be rated at the amount that the new rule will allow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170714	We are grateful to the rapporteur, and the Minister for Industry will have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328170720	Thank you for your comments and for the majority in the Danish Parliament supporting the bill. As you know, the proposal extends the limit on mortgage lending for summer houses from 60%. 75%. This will lower the cost of financing the purchase of leisure homes, enabling more people to afford to buy a leisure home. In addition, it will make it cheaper to borrow for the construction of new summer houses, which is especially positive in the context of the government's initiative on several lands for holiday homes. In addition, cheaper loan options will help more people to afford to modernise and renovate holiday homes. The initiative will therefore be able to create a more active summer cottage market and help support summer cottage markets in areas with weaker demand. The extension of the loan limit applies to both mortgage and mortgage loans by mortgage banks. This ensures a level playing field. The extension also applies to loan financing for the issue of both regular mortgage bonds, covered mortgage bonds and covered bonds. That's what more people like. The Conservative rapporteur was in favour of an important initiative to support the leisure housing market and tourism in Denmark. Then there have been some discussions about what this means for the prices of summer houses and whether it will mean a new home bubble and other things. Well, I think you should put cold water in your blood here. The proposal can indeed offer higher prices for holiday homes. But this is an effect which will differ from one region to another, because certain areas are, after all, characterised by very low demand. This is among other things. These are areas which we would like to support with the proposal. In addition, the proposal will make it cheaper to borrow for the construction of new cottages, and this should be seen in the context of the government's initiative on more land for holiday homes. This will increase the supply of holiday homes and thus counteract higher prices. In addition, cheaper loan options will help to modernise and renovate existing holiday homes to a greater extent. What about the discussion about a home bubble? We do not consider that this proposal will increase the likelihood of a home bubble in the leisure home market. Because I think it is important to make it clear that bubbles usually occur in markets which have experienced a longer period of price increases. And even if the market is not fully followed, I think that people in this Chamber will also know that this is not the case for the leisure accommodation market. It hasn't been so steep up since 2008. Figures from the Realkredit Council show that prices at national level have remained broadly unchanged over the last five years. The demands of the banks and credit associations on the housing buyers' economy will not be relaxed with this bill, and the requirements of e.g. As a matter of fact, there is a natural limit to the increase in housing prices. So there is no basis for suspecting that this would lead to a home bubble, and the situation in this area is completely under control. This simply gives the summer home owners better opportunities to renovate their summer homes and also to get the market going, which you can both buy and sell summer houses to the delights of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171051	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171057	Thank you. And thank you, too, to the Minister. I think it's a little uneasy to sweep it all off the field. After all, it is the National Bank that has raised the flag in this hearing response. So I would just like to ask the Minister: is it the Minister's professional assessment that the prices of leisure homes are no more volatile than those of houses in which you live or condos?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171132	Yeah, they're a tiny bit more, it's a little more fragile. That's also why we don't set it up to 80%, but keep it up to 75%. After all, this proposal does not alter the possibility of borrowing for the part of the real estate market where prices are rising. We must keep in mind that this is about leisure homes, where prices have remained fairly stable over the past five years. It is therefore aimed at a completely different market, which is in a completely different gear, and it is a market characterised in certain areas by low demand, and we would like to support those areas. That is also why the Social Democratic Mayor of Odsherred, Thomas Adelskov, is very, very positive about the proposal, because it helps to support an area that needs growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171219	Thank you. I am very familiar with Thomas Adelskov's position on this matter here. And I also understand very well why, as mayor of a municipality where one in six leisure homes in the country are located, this proposal is positive. After all, it is also his duty to safeguard those interests. Nevertheless, what is the Minister's attitude towards the carelessness of the National Bank's response to the consultation which I think there has been in the debate here, and will the Minister take the initiative to get the Systemic Risk Board over here and make an assessment of whether the Council simply agrees that we are on the verge of what we can risk in relation to the mortgage?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171306	First of all, there is the fact that the Systemic Risk Board can always go in to assess it. They are always welcome to do so. As far as the National Bank is concerned, it is always in its right to give a hearing, which is why it is entitled to a hearing. There are many cases, and that is most of them, where the government is very much in agreement with the National Bank's assessments, but the National Bank is not a government, so the government reserves the right to have its own assessments. And in this case, we do not share the views of the National Bank. If you look at the facts, it turns out that data on price developments in holiday homes and owner-occupied dwellings do not, but we agree with the National Bank that average lay times have been higher for leisure homes compared to owner-occupied dwellings and this may indicate that owner-occupied dwellings are easier
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171405	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171409	Thank you, sir. President. I therefore have only one question, and it is in connection with the Minister's written submission that it says that the bill should be seen in the context of the Government's initiative on several lands for leisure homes. The same sentence also says the Minister in his speech in this Chamber, which is why I would just like to be absolutely sure that the Minister has not misunderstood anything, because it is not a government initiative. It is a planning agreement that has been concluded with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party. So is it not a misinterpretation on the part of the government and the Minister when they say that it is a government initiative and it is actually a political agreement with two other parties in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171455	Yes. So I also mentioned in my presentation up here from the platform that I will... What do you want me to say? Yes, it happened in the way that when a draft law agreement is concluded with the government, along with the DF and the Social Democratic Party, we might as well give credit to the conciliation parties as much as the government. So it is right to say that it is a punctual majority decision that we are giving the opportunity for a few more summer celebrations, but it is of course the government that has to make the proposal, with all the honour and respect that it is of course an agreement with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. That is not the government's proposal alone, it is with the two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171546	Should we interpret the fact that it will not be impossible in future to see the Minister say that it should be seen in the context of the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party's initiative on more lands for leisure homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171604	So, all semantics I am happy to leave to all sorts of others, but the real world is that we cannot reach an agreement on the law of plans without a majority for it, and the two parties that have secured the law of plans are the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party, and all honour and respect for it. That's the reality. Respect!
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171625	Yeah, we'll get to sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171629	I would really just like to know whether the Minister agrees with the opinion of the rapporteur, the second governing party, the Liberal Alliance, that the National Bank has a strange approach to the economy and acts politically when they speak as they do in the hearing response. Is this an attitude shared by the government or shared by the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171657	I do not generally distribute grades to those who are entitled to a hearing, and that is the National Bank. In most cases, we agree with the National Bank. But since it is not the case that we have to decide politically what the National Bank should have of opinions, nor is it the case that the National Bank is politicians, it is not always the case that we hit each other's positions. There is no doubt that when it comes to issues of housing taxation and the mortgage structure, there is a discrepancy between what the National Bank thinks and what the government thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171737	Does the Minister agree that the National Bank is not just any consultation party? We are not talking about an interest organisation such as the Realkredit Council or anyone else; we are talking about an institution in our people's government basically, which has as one of its core functions to monitor financial stability in Denmark. Therefore, should a hearing answer from that source not be something to which special consideration is given, and should we not be careful to accuse just such an institution of taking a political errand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171820	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171822	The National Bank has a clear special status in economic policy. Of course, there is also a very close dialogue between the government and the National Bank, and we often listen to the recommendations of the National Bank. But the National Bank is an autonomous size, and I think the National Bank would very much like it to be denied that everything they say should automatically lead to politics, because that would be like a technocrat regime in which the Governor of the National Bank suddenly became Minister of Business. I think the Director of the National Bank would very much like to have him cut off. By the way, I would like to, because I am pleased to be Minister for Business. I think that the political system should elect politicians and that the National Bank's board of directors should elect management, and then there must be respect for the corporate income tax that exists between the National Bank and the government. We take political decisions on the basis of the recommendations we receive from, among other things. National Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171920	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328171925	Thanks for the answers. I will, of course, take it further, but I also think that it might be interesting to hear the Minister's answer in relation to these three, four proposals, I think it is as the government has put it, to make the life of the summerhouse owners a little more colourful or pleasant. Is this a very leading question for those who have the most or least in Denmark? In fact, I think it is perfectly legitimate for someone to want to help someone who would like to have a holiday home, but is it for those who cannot afford to buy a holiday home today that this would be most attractive, or is it for those who actually have a quite reasonable economy and sit in something in advance and therefore can get something out of it? In fact, I think it is quite right that we take the political view that this is where we want to take action now and then give those who have a summer house and have the means today a little better conditions. We do not agree with the alternative is the right thing to do right now, but I miss a clear statement as to whether it is they who have less money and therefore cannot have a summer house today or whether it is they who actually have quite good funds to make the most of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172033	This proposal is for holiday home owners in general throughout Denmark and for potential holiday home owners who get the opportunity to buy a holiday home much easier, while for holiday home owners it means that you have the opportunity to renovate your accommodation. After all, one must be allowed to make one's own views as a minister, and although I do not have empirical coverage for it, my own intuition tells me that it is the least well-off, this is best for, because my own logic, intuition tells me that it is now easier to borrow at a summer house, as one does not need to have so much free capital next to it. After all, there is a difference between whether you have, regardless of where you are in the social groups. And my intuition tells me that more families now have the opportunity to buy a holiday home and that more families now have the opportunity to renovate their summer house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172127	I very much appreciate transparency, even if it is not something that can be said with complete factual certainty. We need to look at this in committee. For us in the alternative, it is at least essential to find out who it is that we are helping with this proposal, because we might be a little concerned if it were the wrong ones in this case in our view. I do not think we are going to be able to accept it, but if it turns out that something attractive is happening in the outskirts that are being talked about and that it goes to the right ones, it sounds interesting. But we're still away for a no thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172201	Compared with this discussion, there is no doubt that this proposal has been mostly opposed in the outskirts, because it offers much greater opportunity for the sale of summer houses and there will be better opportunities for the renovation of summer houses. On the basis of a distribution policy argument, I think it falls very well into the policy of the Alternative, but then you can be against it for all sorts of other reasons, but my intuition would tell me that, and then we will have to have a dialogue on it in committee if there are further questions on it and then we will have a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172239	In doing so, we thank the Minister for Industry. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170328172258	Despite the audience in the seats, there is still no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 29 March 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. That brings the sitting to a close.
