ParlaMint-DK_20170405130007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill no. L 186 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities and the Law on the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings and various other laws. Bill No. L 187 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Property Credit Companies and the Law on mortgage loans and mortgage bonds, etc.) Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 188 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better dental care). Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on strengthening justice in Greenland). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Bruno Jerup (EL) and others. have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the introduction of digital frame number for bicycles. B100. Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. I have to inform you that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S) takes it under no. 23 brought back questions to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130132	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130142	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130144	Thank you. The question to the Minister for Justice is as follows: Does the Minister believe that in the light of BT's access to the Copenhagen Police Department, which shows that 75% of the population of the country is affected by the crisis? of which they produced in the Magistrate's Guard in Copenhagen in 2016 were foreigners • that we in Denmark do enough to combat the extensive crime of foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130206	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130208	Thank you. I have a clear expectation that foreigners who are in this country will behave properly. Foreigners who commit crime during their stay in Denmark abuse the confidence of Danish society. Nor is there any doubt that the foreigners who come here to commit crime create great insecurity. That is why I am also very concerned that effective action is being taken against the criminal activities of this group. The police are fully aware of the problem. They are among other things. by developing a new strategy for action against travelling criminal groups. That strategy must include: increase knowledge of travelling criminal groups and their practices so that action can be taken as effectively as possible. The high percentage of foreigners in the judge's watch, as indicated in BT's article, can also be seen as an indication that the police are precisely focused on combating the crime committed by foreigners in that the number is so high. I would also like to mention the police's new automatic license plate recognition cameras, also known as ANPG. I have no doubt that ANPG is an example of how the police can use new technology to effectively address the insecurity-building crime committed by, among others, the police. foreigners. As we have also agreed with the Danish People's Party, the police expect to set up additional ANPG cameras at the Danish-German border during autumn 2017. In addition, the government has just introduced a ban on insecurity-building camps in public spaces. The police can now take effective action against, for example: foreigners staying in such camps. Both the government and the police are fully committed to combating the crime committed by foreigners, thereby combating the ensuing insecurity created by crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130355	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130357	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's reply. The reason why we are asking a little about the Minister's position on this matter is, of course, that we can see that, unfortunately, the figures do not go very well. The Minister himself mentions that this is not a completely new phenomenon, but that many initiatives have been launched. Of course, we also very much welcome this in the Danish People's Party. We have been involved in implementing all the austerity measures that have been put in place ourselves. But we must also take the situation as it is, and we can see there if we look at the figures from 2016 that it is still more than 75%. of those produced, which are of foreign origin. And if you look at those who are convicted, you can see that they are mainly from Poland, the Czech Republic, Somalia, Iraq, Lebanon and Pakistan. It is not all these countries that I recognise that there are European countries, which is why we have to assume that those who are then from other nations outside the European Union may typically be here as asylum seekers or for other purposes. But that does not change the fact that, of course, I am very interested in knowing what the Minister thinks in terms of whether we do enough. Then it can be said that if the Minister says that he thinks enough is being done, then I can quickly find something that has not been done. And if he thinks that we are not doing enough, I will of course ask the Minister what he will do. So that's the way it is. But these are some challenges that I think are insurmountable, given that we hardly really know what to do. One of the things one could do is that one could do much, much easier and better for the Danish authorities to enforce these rules, for example, against Eastern Europeans who come to Denmark, especially during the summer period, who claim freedom of movement within the EU and say that if they are here as tourists, they can be here for 3 months, and if they are looking for work, they can be here for 6 months. But they're not looking for jobs, they're just here for six months. Today we cannot register it unless we get it written in their passports. If, for example, they do: is produced in the judge's watch, it is registered that they are in Denmark a given date. But they are not registered the day they enter Denmark. I would like to ask the Minister if it would not be in the interests of the government that we should have it done in such a way that there will be registration on entry to Denmark, so that we know when they started their stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130618	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130619	Thank you. There were many things that were put forward on which it might actually be good to have a discussion. I mean, is it enough? I don't think we should ever be careful saying that we're going to come up with a situation where we're going to sit back and say that we're gonna do enough, that can't be done anymore. I always think we should be good at finding out what more needs to be done. That's why the police are working on a strategy for this, and even if some would say that it may sound a little long-haired, it's also about finding out what kind of travelling criminals there are and how we put in better. I believe that this thing with extra cameras, ANPG cameras, is going to make a huge difference compared to these people who are traveling around. In relation to what is said about the passport, there are just some challenges about Schengen and a permanent border control. This is a different discussion, but the questioner knows that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130706	Yes, but it is just the case that if there are third-country nationals who want to enter Denmark and who are unfamiliar, we can simply reject them at the airport, at the railway station or where they come in. If they have no money for their stay, we can expel them from Denmark immediately. The same does not apply when people come from other European countries such as Romania, Bulgaria or Poland. They can come up here and make their way through a whole summer without any particular risk of reprisals on the part of the Danish authorities. There we in the Danish People's Party have asked: would it not, however, be a good idea to change the rules governing it and the burden of proof as to when someone had entered Denmark was passed on to the individual?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130751	What I find extremely difficult about this is that within the European Union we have different degrees of nationality and that some people can come in while we have to keep an eye on others, and I think it is really difficult. I would actually rather go the other way, where we are more determined to find out what kind of people are coming and what they are doing here. Well, you do it with these camps in the parks, and you look at what's going on in the streets, including this aggressive begging, and I think we should try to find some solutions there. Because I fully agree with the questioner that it is sometimes crazy what people do, at least if you walk around the country's capital and where you think: it may happen that they say they are tourists, but we can at least look at their act that that is the only thing they are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130832	The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130834	It is true that we have just had motion for a resolution No. B 16 for discussion here in the Danish Parliament, a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which concerns the participation of EU citizens in documentation of legal residence in Denmark. And there we could note that the government, including the Conservative People's Party, could not support our resolution that it should be the individual EU citizen who should help to lift the burden of proof of when or how late one has entered Denmark. Today it is completely the other way around. There it is the authorities and the police who have to prove that, for example, they have been in Denmark for 3 months and that we can thus expel them. If you can't, you can't expel them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130911	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130912	That's also why I think that the Danish People's Party and the government in this field should keep on finding some really good solutions together. As the questioner rightly says, all the restrictions that have been made have been with the help of the Danish People's Party, and one will only meet an open door with me when it comes to looking at how we can give the police better tools or how we can tighten up this, and I would really, really like to do that. Now I hope that some of the things we have put in place here will work, and I actually think that this whole thing with the cameras, even though it may sound like a little bit, will have a huge impact, that is, the registration across borders, that we see vans out in the villa neighbourhoods and we see foreigners who are very aggressive. However, I am happy to take further discussions on this, because we have the same objective, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405130953	Thank you. There is a new question for the Minister of Justice, and it is by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131016	Thank you for that, President. I read out the question: can the Minister state his position on whether a city council should be given the opportunity to decide on television surveillance in the nightlife in particularly vulnerable places?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131030	I fully agree with the questioner that the question of how to ensure the best possible safety of citizens and avoid attacks in nightlife is extremely important. After all, we all need to be able to walk safely and safely when we go into the nightlife, and so must we when it's light. Both police and local authorities' access to television surveillance is regulated primarily by the rules of the Personal Data Act, which means that television surveillance in public places must be objective, necessary and proportionate. Municipalities can now conduct television surveillance to protect public property such as schools, day-care centres, town halls, buses and libraries from crime. Municipalities may also, following the involvement of the police, conduct television surveillance in order to promote security in public places close to an area watched by housing organisations on the basis of police permission. So television surveillance can certainly be a very useful tool in the fight against crime by the police and in promoting security. When we talk about combating crime, it is basically my view that it is important to stick to the fact that it is a police task and that it is the police that are best suited to assessing which measures make the most sense in the fight against crime. Among other things: That is why I think it is important that it is ultimately the police who decide whether to set up television cameras in public spaces in order to prevent and solve crime. The police today have the opportunity to set up cameras in selected locations if it can help against crime. This has been done in Virgin Ane Gade in Aalborg, to give an example. So the police and the municipalities that want television cameras to be put up in the nightlife should engage in dialogue with each other about the possibilities. I understand that such a dialogue has just begun in the municipalities where the issue has been raised recently. I think it is really important to get together locally and find the right solutions if there is insecurity in the nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131232	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131233	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned about ensuring security for the city's citizens. As the Minister for Justice is also aware, there has been an attack in Kolding Municipality in March, which is why there has been a great desire from the city council, but also from the shops, for surveillance. And I do not think that the answer given by the Minister in an article that I have here is a fair answer to the fact that the Minister will not help the municipalities with this. Will the Minister go in and change the Personal Data Act so that the City Council can assess it when there is a great desire for it among citizens of a municipality because it can prevent crime such as violence, rape and other things? If there is a great desire for it and a broad majority in the city council for it, what is there to prevent the Minister of Justice from allowing it to be done as a municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131332	I hope to understand that I can hardly answer this without touching on the second question, which has also been asked, because the two questions that have been asked are very, very similar. I understand what the questioner is saying, and I understand if there is an insecurity. I understand the frustration and that one can say in a municipality that it cannot be right that we cannot do this. I just think it is a problem if we say that it is not the police who, on the basis of a police opinion, should decide where to set up a camera, but that it is at any time the city council that can set up a camera where they want. I think it is problematic if we are to have different legal status in society or in our country, depending on the municipality in which we live. That's how much confidence I think we should have in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131417	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131420	Thank you. What if the police don't want cameras set up? I am aware that among other things. Kolding City Council has long since purchased cameras to set up. They just can't be allowed to set them up. Therefore, I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this, whether the Minister does not find it problematic when they have a huge desire in a city council and a local population to put cameras up in vulnerable places for prevention and to be able to catch the perpetrators of crime, rape and violence and other things, and then they cannot be allowed to do so. In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about catching the criminals who do the things. It's kind of weird that the police have to run around to some stores to look at their surveillance cameras when it could help that they had set up those surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131514	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131515	It will quickly be a very wide debate, because one thing is what happens outside the shops and what you can see there; another thing, of course, is the nightlife.Of course, it will be especially at discos and catering areas where you can imagine that there can be a special crime. I understand that, if there were any incidents, a municipality would say that they would actually like to do so. Then I just think that it will certainly require us to have a major debate in here about whether we are willing to say that what is actually the task of the police, namely that cameras are being set up, may be financed by the municipalities if the police are involved, but their budgets are not available here and now. That certainly requires a change of law. We must then discuss this issue, namely whether the municipality can buy itself for a police service. I think that's a difficult discussion, but I'd be happy to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131601	Then there's a co-questioner. It's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131606	Thank you. So, I think the Minister managed to sum up two things here, which should really be quite simple. Because there is, after all, a democratic discussion about how much we need to be monitored when we move in public space; that is one thing. The second point is how much police profession should be involved in relation to what needs to be monitored. I mean, and in the Danish People's Party we think that if you have a street in a municipality where you know there are a lot of things going on... it can be drug trafficking, it can be violence and fights during the night hours, it can be sexual abuse... it must be in the interests of democracy that a majority of the city council sitting at any time can say: we will not tolerate this, we will have watched this because we want to put an end to this. Then it is wrong to start pushing the police in front of you and to say that there is some sort of police judgement in a police circle and that we cannot discuss democratically what we should let monitor and what we should not let monitor. I think that is a problem. So I would like the Minister to deal with that. So I would just like to ask: are there any rules on the basis of this question that the Minister considers appropriate to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131715	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131716	I think it is only right to change the rules as soon as we have found a common solution to what needs to be changed, because that is what this is all about. And now I don't think the questioner should make me worse than I am. Well, I'd like to discuss it, but I'm just saying that I think there are some important discussions here. What should happen if a town council decides that there are some problems, and then the police say: it may be that you feel it or that you think it, but we do not think that there is a basis here for increased surveillance, because we do not think that there should be a police profession? This is the one discussion, i.e. whether to be able to do so. The second discussion is whether the municipality, if the police agree with it and we haven't had enough money set aside for them to do camera surveillance, should be able to buy it. I am just saying that it certainly requires that we sit down and discuss it a little more thoroughly. This is not something we can manage on Wednesday over dinner, because it will require far-reaching changes in the way we think about today. I'd like to discuss it, but we just have to agree with each other that it has some consequences. And we will have some discussions about whether you can buy yourself for a police service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131820	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131824	The last part of the answer I think is quite fair and real, i.e. to say that it is about resources. I can say that I do not think it is a big question of principle. If the municipality wants to buy it, that's fair enough, and then the municipality has to be able to. A greater balance is, in fact, not in my view. In other words, if a democratic majority in a city council believes that there is too much room for uncertainty in the night hours, then of course one should have the opportunity to take action against it. And that's where I'd like the police to help make our cities around us safe. It's not just in Kolding that this is happening. It also takes place in Haderslev, and it takes place in many provincial towns. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister because my time is running out: does the Minister believe that the rules we have today for shops and for shops monitoring the adjacent area for their business is too tight?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131910	It is always good to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131913	Thank you. On the subject of being able to buy a service, I would say that this is a debate we are discussing, among other things. must go with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, because of course it is about what a municipality can buy itself for. This is another discussion; I fully agree with that, and the questioner also agrees that this is the kind of thing we are going to discuss. No, I mean, we should look at the stores. I know that we have had a discussion about when to put out some pictures, and I have said at least in relation to that, that I think we should make it much easier for the shops to be able to share something with each other. And I also believe that the police should look at whether they can pay more attention to the fact that something is being put more quickly on a platform. This is another discussion, but there is quite a lot moving in that area, and I think we have a basis on which to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131953	Thank you. And then again, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405131959	Thank you. I think it is quite an interesting debate, since the Minister will confine himself to discussing it here. In the Danish People's Party, we want action, and it is paradoxical that several municipalities have television surveillance • it is there in Virgo Ane Gade and also in Esbjerg and Sønderborg • but then you cannot be allowed to do so in a particular municipality because the police don't think you should have it. If this can help prevent crime, violence, rape and assault, I think it is paradoxical that the Minister will not help to find a solution, in other words help to propose solutions to these challenges. It is a great wish of several mayors, among others. in the municipalities of South Jutland, as the Minister is also aware. So what exactly will the Minister do to help the municipalities that want this, but where the police put an end to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132103	Thank you. I don't think it's possible to say that I'm not going to do anything. I am trying to deal with this on a Wednesday issue which is oral, so it is limited how much information can be obtained in advance on these matters. I am just expressing my immediate opinion, that is, what I think, and I would like to discuss it so much, because I think it is worth a discussion. I do not think it is an indifferent discussion whether municipalities can buy themselves for police services. In fact, I think that is a very important discussion. Are there any municipalities that can and other municipalities that cannot? I think this is an important discussion. Then I think it is also an important discussion whether we can have different legal conditions around the municipalities. I would like to discuss this, because I agree with the challenge of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132151	Thank you. The question is over. But there is a new question for the Minister of Justice, and it is also by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132201	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132202	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable for a municipality to be prevented from setting up television surveillance in exposed places, even if there is a strong desire for it in the local area and a clear majority in the city council?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132215-2	Thank you. It will be very difficult for me to respond to something very new in relation to the discussion we have just had. I think, of course, that the question of how best to ensure the safety of citizens and avoid attacks in nightlife is extremely important. I would like to say that the police are already doing police work: is there a need for surveillance here? They can also do so at the request of a municipality which says that they think there is a problem of a mayor, a city council that says: Dear friends, dear police, here is simply a problem that we have to address. Then the county and the cops get together and find out what's up and down. And if there is a police professional reason to say that there is a need for surveillance here, then surveillance will be put in place. Then, of course, we can face that too, I have to say, the question of what it is for an economy, the overall police have what it costs and how much they can set up, because they do not have a lot of air in the frame. This is, of course, an independent discussion. We must also take this with each other here in the Folketing. But the principle is that it is the police who, like nod and say, can be monitored here for security reasons because I understand the questioner so that this is about security in the nightlife. And I assume that, when you have that surveillance, of course, it is both to be able to find out who has committed the crime, but also to ensure security. In fact, I would like to see the same thing, as the questioner and the co-questioner do, as far as I am concerned. I just want the state of law to be the same throughout the country, regardless of whether the city is called Kolding, Haderslev, Viborg, Brønderslev, Nyborg, or what it says it is the same set of rules that applies and that it is not a city council that has had a random political majority to sit and say: we have now decided that it is safer here than elsewhere. I think that is just a problem that we should, frankly, discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132418	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132419	Well, in the Danish People's Party we find it a problem when you have a municipality that has purchased cameras but cannot be allowed to set them up. That's a huge challenge. Then, of course, they address the Minister of Justice, and the answer they receive from the Minister, which is in the Jutland West Coast, is: • Mayor does not get help from the Minister. This can be seen from the answer to a written question that the Jutland West Coast has put to the Minister via the press service of the Ministry of Justice and I quote: Will the Minister for Justice consider allowing municipalities to video monitor freely available locations? The answer from the minister via the press service was: • I am very concerned about the unhappy case, and I hope all the best for the man who has been attacked. I understand that as a responsible politician in the municipality, we want to strengthen the fight against crime in the night after such a case. Then the minister refers to the fact that the police already have the opportunity to set up cameras in selected places, and the minister then says: "Therefore, it is also my message to the municipality that they must sit down with the police and look at how to put the best in Kolding in concrete terms and strengthen the security of the citizens of the city. However, there is a cry here from the mayor and the shops of a municipality, and the minister says nothing but to enter into a dialogue. After all, they have had that dialogue in the past, because it is not a new problem. That is why cameras were bought at the time, which one would like to be allowed to set up precisely to increase safety. What then puzzles me is the answer that we have received from the Minister to question 442: "Currently, police are conducting crime prevention television surveillance in a number of parts of the country. For example, the South and South Jutland Police have set up television surveillance around the restaurant environment in Esbjerg and Sønderborg respectively. Then what I would ask the Minister to say specifically is why you cannot do the same thing in Kolding Municipality, where you have purchased cameras that a local town council wants to set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132629	You can, too, if the police think it's right. After all, we are going to have a discussion about whether it is a city council that has to assess whether there needs to be surveillance to create security, prevent crime and solve crimes, or whether it is the police. I'm just saying that if it's a town council that's gonna decide that, first of all, in this country city council with a very different political majority, that could come up with some very funny things... it could be about a lot of other issues than this... and there's got to be a balance somewhere, I guess. Secondly, there is the question of how far we should go in terms of putting the police's judgment out of hand. I think there are some fundamental issues at stake here. I understand two hundred percent what the concern is, but is it the police or the city council that decides how to do this best?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132718	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132719	Now the Minister is also former mayor, so I think it might be that the Minister also has some experience from his period of mayorship in relation to this issue. I should like to ask, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, what specific action will the Minister take? Will the Minister call the Danish People's Party for negotiations on this in order to find a common solution? How do we solve the challenge so that we can help and secure the citizens of the city, whether it is Kolding, Haderslev or any other city that this is about? Will the Minister call for negotiations on this so that we can find a solution so that we do not have the same problem in a year's time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132800	I will always discuss with the Danish People's Party, and I hope that the questioner will be able to confirm this with his fellow questioner, when the Danish People's Party wants a discussion, always. Of course, the art is to figure out where this is going and how we can solve it. I think we're gonna need to get into a room and dive a little deeper into it. I think there are some questions of principle and I hope that there is also understanding for the rise. This is both the question of whether you can buy yourself for services, and we can then discuss that, but also whether it is the police or the city council that has to assess this kind of thing. It may well be that we need to talk about whether the rules are clear enough in relation to the requirements you can make. I'd like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132841	Thank you. Then there's an enquirer, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405132846	Are the rules clear enough? That is what the Minister was able to conclude. At any rate, the rules are too tight as they are today. They are both in this particular area which Mrs Karina Adsbøl and I have raised during Question Time. They are also when it comes to shops and shops' ability to monitor, for example, shops towards pedestrian streets. They are when it comes to people's ability to publish surveillance images. So this is, of course, a general picture of some rules, about which at best it has to be said that they are just obsolete. They have simply not followed the reality and the electronic digital development that has taken place in the rest of society over the last 10 to 20 years. I think that is a huge problem. I think we should look through all these rules, and then we should change them. Then I also have to say that we will have the same rules, even if we change the rules. There will be no 98 different legal systems because we have 98 different municipalities. There will be a common set of rules, but we will ensure that there is some freedom within those rules, because municipalities are different. The former Mayor of Viborg knows that Viborg is not the same as Copenhagen. That is a good thing, but it provides a basis on which to work, and that is what our rules must take into account. So my question is: would the Minister agree that in this area we are far too conservative in relation to our neighbouring countries and the countries with which we are traditionally compared, which have a completely different approach to video surveillance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133013	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133013-2	Can you be too conservative? I have no doubt. There were a number of comments, but I cannot give a proper answer to the last question, because it will require me to get some information. I simply cannot answer on a stand-by basis what is happening in other countries. But I'd like to be a part of the discussion. There's something basic about this. This is both what you can buy and what city councils are entitled to. If a mayor sees that something is not right here, or if you think there is something that creates insecurity, then of course you fight to put it right. So I just think that we need a discussion on where the cut is: is it the police who should have the last word or should they no longer have it? Then, of course, it is a discussion of it. I just think it raises some more general questions about what you are entitled to. We shall then have to discuss this, and I am very, very happy to discuss it. I'm just saying, it's not like just snapping your fingers and saying that we can just do this. For yes, there is a great difference between Viborg and Copenhagen in many ways. And I almost want to say thank you, because I appreciate that. But it could also be that this could spread to other areas...
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133126	Speaking time must be observed. This applies both to the minister and to the questioner. Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133130	I have great respect for the political work that is going on in our municipalities. Like the Minister, I am a former municipal politician, and what is going on in many municipalities is very good. But I would like to ask the Minister whether it might be an idea to look at how they dealt with this issue in the free municipalities in connection with the free municipalities, because there might be some experience of this. If there is not, could one then alternatively look at putting an attempt into our free municipalities to see if they would have a desire to do it differently if they had the rules to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133203	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133204	I always think that there should be an open-minded debate on what might be of free-community attempts. There I have to say that it will just require that there are ministers other than me in it. After all, it is not just me who is just sitting with the free municipalities and can decide what it should be. But you can always discuss what you think is reasonable to try. But I think you have to think about rolling this out with a fingertips, because there are some differences in some municipalities that I think you should look at before you just let go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133231	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133237	Thank you. There are currently some municipalities where crime prevention monitoring is carried out, but the same possibility does not exist in all municipalities, and the argument for that is that, as far as I understand, there is not enough violence. It simply does not happen enough, and that is why you cannot be allowed to put up a television camera. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: when will there be enough violence to allow video surveillance to be set up? How much violence should there be? How many thefts must there be in a city before you can put this up to protect the citizens? How many rapes should there be? Many municipalities are also currently ravaged by the fact that there are cars being destroyed. How much does it take for the police to decide that you can set up surveillance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133332	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133333	There is not a simple answer to that, and that is why it is the police who are in and assessing it. I think we should be very careful that it is we politicians here in the Folketing or the council members who have to assess when it is, because something very, very different could come out of it. Monitoring public space also seems to me to require a fundamental discussion and when to do so must also depend on whether it creates real security or whether it is just something we set up and then we say that it is safe. That's why I'm just saying that we also have to have faith somewhere that the police are handling this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133410	Trust is really good to have, but there's...
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133420	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, speaking time is over. Thank you. If it goes, it goes, but it didn't. The next question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133436	Thank you. When does the Minister think that it is reasonable for the government to notify Danish employees of how much the government wants to raise the pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133442	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133444	This is a wonderful question and, by the way, an issue which Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party colleagues have asked me several times down here, so I shall be brief by replying exactly the same as I have answered the previous questioners, so that we will present a proposal for this before the summer break. I will then, on the other hand, spend some time explaining why it is that we want to give priority to people who can stay longer on the labour market, also to stay longer on the labour market. It is the case that the retirement age is currently laid down in two agreements, one from 2006 and the other from 2011, where we say that, as they live longer, the Danes also gradually become longer in the labour market, so that the pension period you have, i.e. how many years you have as a pensioner, is fairly stable over time. The challenge is that life expectancy, i.e. how long we as Danes live, has evolved over time far more positively and far more favourable than was expected both in 2006 and in 2011, and this means that there will be an imbalance between generations in relation to the length of retirement. I can exemplify it. One could imagine a person who is, we should say 49 years of age and who has two children of 20 and 22 years of age respectively. According to the rules in force, the person who is 49 years old will be on a national pension for approx. 18 years in round numbers, slightly depending on when the year he or she was born, whereas the children will have a pension period of only 141⁄2 years, again slightly depending on exactly when the year he or she was born and when the various changes are going through. But there will be a bias. There will therefore be some generations who will have a much longer pension than others, and a greater part of the overall welfare that we have in Denmark will have to be reserved for exactly this type of welfare, i.e. pension payments, instead of other types of welfare, for example in the health, nursing home and children's area, and research and better education. That is why the discussion is: what is the priority given to the proportion of the common welfare costs to be paid to people's pensions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133653	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133654	I also think it is worth taking the discussion, and I know that this has been asked before, but it is also because there are quite a few of us who have been waiting for an answer to this. And it is not just us in the opposition who are impatient. There are especially many of these people I actually also talk to quite often, i.e. employees who have worked mostly since they were 16, 17, 18 years old. After all, not everyone sits on the school bench until they are 30 years old. Those people have worked hard for many years, and at some point they also become worn out. That is how it is when you work for a number of years and also often and often have a physically hard job, and that is why they have asked me several times: when do you come up with an answer to this? Because they're really worried about when they can retire and whether they can hold on to it, and they're saying that if they're going to do this job for so many years, they think it would be really hard to see themselves retire at an even higher age that this government is starting to talk about. When the Minister is talking about that bias, do I also have to ask: does the Minister also recognise that there is a bias in relation to those who the Minister is talking about and who may well be able to, that is, an imbalance between those who may not be worn out and those who are worn out? What about them? I know that, when you were in government before a parliamentary election, when there was a government only with the Left and you hadn't brought in the Liberal Alliance, who thought there had been a parliamentary election, there was a proposal for senior flexible jobs. That would then only guarantee 100 people, and there are, in fact, many more than those who are being worn out. So I would just like to ask again: does the Minister of Finance recognise that there is an imbalance between different professional groups and also between different people? In fact, there are some who are worn out and who need to leave before others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133842	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133843	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Leif Lahn Jensen talks to so many people, but if he had talked to his party colleague, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, he would have known that the government would make a move before the summer break. Because I have said that repeatedly in an answer to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht here in the hall. When it comes to the second part of the question, namely whether the worn out should be on the labour market, I do not think that if you are worn out you should be on the labour market, and it does not matter whether you are 42 years old, 52 years old, 62 years old or in another age group. Therefore, we must both ensure that there are good arrangements for people who are worn out to be retrained to do something else that does not make them worn out, or can be completely removed from the labour market, and then we must make further efforts to avoid people becoming worn out in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405133931	It may be that we have asked the Minister for Finance many times and that the Minister for Finance has given that answer many times, but that does not mean much to me. What matters to me is that these people are actually insecure. After all, it's been a while since the Left Government came up with these things and suggested it. It has actually been a very, very long time and a great deal could have been achieved already. But now that the Minister of Finance says so about the worn out people, and I am very much in agreement with that, I would like to hear what these arrangements are. Will you come back with some excuses for a little ridiculous schemes that only help 100 people? I was looking forward to it coming this summer, but do you really have something big that can help a lot of the people who are worn out? Is that what I should expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134013	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134015	When I mention that there has been an answer to the question of the time, it is just to stress that this is not something we have gone along with. It's not a revelation, it's no breaking news, there's no yellow beams coming on TV 2 News that I'm saying there's going to be a play before the summer break. It's actually something we've been pretty open about. In relation to what then comes of initiatives, including initiatives to ensure that people who are worn out can be helped further and possibly helped out of the labour market, I cannot reveal any details of the action until we are ready to present it together. We believe that it should be seen in a whole. I believe it is both important to look at the possibility for those who can work longer also to contribute longer in society and that there will be a greater balance in retirement age than the one we have today. But I also think it is important that we have a way for those who are worn out to get out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134102	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134103	But then I just have to ask you something. For now this government has been here for a few years, and it was also last year that a proposal was made on the 2025 plan. Why has it had to be so long as until summer? I think it's awfully long that these people should go and wait for this clarification or lack of the same thing and they've sort of been insecure in that time. Why have we had to wait so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134125	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134126	It is not, of course, a question I am pleased to have to answer, but it was because we did not have a majority in favour of the overall plan we put forward. We put forward an overall plan last autumn in the then V government, which was aimed at solving a large number of social problems, and then there was not a majority in the Folketing who agreed to contribute to it. This led us to rethink the government and, of course, the new government needs to take a position on a wide range of policy issues, including the extent to which the model to be put on the table should be different from the model that the then V government put on the table. And it takes a while to go through these things. That is why I am pleased to say that before we come to the summer we have put a proposal on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134208	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Finance from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134213	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134215	In view of the fact that it is known that the government does not have a majority in favour of the decision to increase the retirement age, will the Minister explain whether a majority has been obtained for this and if not, when is the intention to drop the idea of an increase in the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134231	What do you do as a politician if you do not have a majority in favour of your policy? Yeah, you negotiate. You argue. There are opportunities to be presented. And you see if there can be a majority behind the objective you have. Perhaps if we take up this discussion one step, I can say that I have two political objectives. I have a goal to secure a job offer that makes the Danish economy grow, that we become richer and more prosperous, and that we can afford to help more people, i.e. because the Danish economy is strong and in shape. This is what happens if you increase labour supply in Denmark; it is that you help to ensure that the Danish economy is strong, so we can afford the common welfare and individual well-being that we can get from better jobs, better wages, but also more tax revenues and thus a better economy in the public sector. The second thing I have as my goal is to have a greater balance... one could almost say justice... in terms of how we distribute welfare over generations. My example from before, when the 49-year-old father gets a much longer pension period than his children of 20 and 22 years old, is real; that is how the reality will be if there is no change in relation to what has been adopted today and the lifespan we know. Then there will be the bias that some groups have a significantly longer pension time than the one we give to our children and grandchildren. So I have a political objective of growth and labour supply, and I have a political objective of more justice. How I see achieving the objectives, i.e. the means to achieve them, I am ready to negotiate. I'm quite ready to negotiate on that. I am well aware that the government is a minority government, which means that we are putting forward some proposals, and then we are negotiating until we have a majority in order to achieve what can bring us towards our political objectives, which are growth, prosperity and justice, in terms of how to allocate pensions between generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134428	The Minister for Finance is right that there are two ways to do this. You can negotiate and try to obtain a majority, but you can also stop as number two and say: this is impossible, it is unreasonable, and then we stop that idea. 82% of the Danes do not want a higher retirement age, 57 per cent. of the Left's own voters do not want a higher retirement age, and I know that the Danish People's Party does not want it either. So that means that there is a large proportion of the Danish population who think it is unreasonable and that the majority in Christiansborg think it is unreasonable. So, although we have a finance minister and a government that thinks this is sensible, the government has obviously failed to convince their own voters, society, citizens or their own parliamentary basis about it. So I just have to ask again, when does this farce stop? When will the government and the finance minister find out that they are more or less alone in this and that they will not get a majority in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134526	Will the questioner promise that any proposal for which the Social Democratic Party does not have a majority in favour in advance will be dropped? No, right? After all, there are no political parties in a multiparty system like the Danish one who can act. In a multi-party system such as the Danish one, democracy is the way to put forward its proposal, to fight for its political priorities, the objectives one wants to achieve, and to discuss the means to achieve the objectives, and then to see what can be done. That is why I do not intend to abandon the objective of greater prosperity in Denmark, growth in GDP, better advice to meet the challenges we have, both in the common economy and in the private economy; those objectives I will continue to strive to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134612	Well, I would simply like to ask 'cause that is what the Minister for Finance has to do when you come up with a proposal: where is the majority for this? Who does the Minister of Finance expect to vote for this? Who's going to vote for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134627	Most possible parties. In the past, the Social Democratic Party has had the economic backbone to take responsibility when there were major economic challenges in society. We have taken over an economy from the then SR government, where there is still what economists call a hammock problem, which is that for a long period from around 2025 to 2055 we will have a deficit on state finances, that is to say that we will spend more money than we currently have. Even though there are economists talking right now about us going into a recovery, there are still deficits. We have then significantly reduced that deficit since we took over government power. We have made the deficit this year without one-off revenue and 10 billion. kr. less than what was expected when we made the budget just a few months ago. So we have managed to bring the deficit down, but we need to do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134723	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134724	The Social Democratic Party has, and we have shown this on several occasions, a financial backbone when we think it is sensible, and we do not think this proposal is appropriate. That is why I can ask the question again. If you want a majority in favour of this, you have to expect that and I would like to confirm that the Minister for Finance expects when he hears these signals; that is also what several people have said, probably also my own rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour and support a higher retirement age? They're the ones you have left. Is that what you expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134755	The economic policy of social democracy is more like a kitchen vendor's: doors and drawers, gates and drawers, gates and drawers. In fact, when you are in government, you know what it takes to pursue an economically responsible policy, and that is also why some initiatives were actually taken when the Social Democracy was in government. There was a reduction in the marginal tax, which was carried out by a reduction in corporate tax, which was extended to the work offer because, when Bjarne Corydon had the chair I have today, it was known that it was necessary and the right thing to do. As soon as you get into opposition, you run away from your policy; then you distance yourself from it until you come back and say that it is time to get back into government, and then you go in and introduce the rules, the reforms, the initiatives that are needed. I simply do not understand that a consistent line cannot be found for it, i.e. have the same policy, whether you are in government or in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134848	Thank you. The question is closed. Then I'll let you know that it's by mr. Simon Kollerup (S) under No. 16 questions put to the Minister for the Environment and Food (Question No. S 993), at the request of the author, has been converted into a written reply. This means that the agenda will be moved forward a little bit. Then it's a question for the Minister of Industry by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134914	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134916	Thank you. Will the Minister explain what rules and regulations he considers superfluous or harmful, cf. the government's work began to comb the regulation of the financial sector, as mentioned in FinansWatch on 30 March 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405134930	Both during and after the financial crisis, a number of significant tightenings have been implemented both in the regulation and in the supervision of the financial sector. I myself have done so as a minister, and the tightening-up has been achieved through broad political agreements and is generally sensible. This has contributed to the fact that today we have a healthy and robust financial sector in Denmark, as has been confirmed by the stress tests of the financial institutions in recent years. All the important areas have therefore been tightened up. In the years to come, however, we must expect that there will be even more new requirements for Danish credit institutions, among others. As a result of new international standards and new EU rules. It up-to-dates the need for us to stop and examine whether, in the light of the knowledge and experience we have now, we have also struck the right balance in regulation. Were there perhaps a number of nice to garden rules and not need to have rules? Or have any rules been implemented which prove not to have the intended effect or which are superfluous? I have as a general objective that it should be easier to be a company in Denmark. There must be less detailed regulation, and this also applies in the financial field. It is important that we create competitive framework conditions for the financial sector. It provides low prices for consumers and low prices for business. We must also bear in mind that the financial sector is essential for companies to be able to obtain funding for growth and employment, and with the overhaul I am now addressing, of the existing financial regulation, we can identify whether there is a reasonable balance between the economic burdens and the socio-economic benefits of regulation. At the same time, a specific study will examine whether the intended impact of the rules can be achieved in a less burdensome way than today. I do not have such preconceived views as to what rules might be dispensed with. The analysis must show this, and that is what the survey is supposed to help uncover.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135127	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135127-2	Thank you very much to the Minister. After all, I just got to hear the Minister for Finance's reply to my good friend and colleague Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, where he accused my party of being deeply irresponsible. I could do something similar, and that is also why I have asked the question, namely to learn a little more about what the government intends to do before I accuse the government of being irresponsible. We will get there, I promise, but there are a number of questions here. First of all, you'd almost think I'd been able to coordinate with Jesper Rangvid. He wrote a very readable chronicle yesterday in Berlingske, where he on top of the work the Minister has now set in motion, warns the government not to start introducing pendulum regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135238	We must be careful, even though it was perhaps a rather clever remark that we are not using direct indictment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135245	I fully agree that there needs to be a proper basis for decision-making, which is why I am also undertaking a proper analysis before we take decisions. The most important thing is that there is confidence and the necessary stability in the financial sector in Denmark. This is the one part of the foundation of the enterprise policy that I am leading towards the financial sector. But the second part is that we must make it easier to be a company in Denmark, and that also means that we must always look at whether, with a service review of the rules in the financial field, we can identify whether less administratively burdensome legislation can be simplified and drafted against them. We've started the work. Firstly, we would like an overall assessment of the level of administrative burdens and an estimate of the socio-economic gains. And then I will carry out a detailed review of the regulation in order to identify rules that are particularly burdensome for companies and that have not had the intended effect. As I mentioned earlier, I do not have such preconceived views about what can be deguled and what may not be. The analysis has to show this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135349	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135350	It is commendable, I think, that the Minister does not have a preconceived opinion. Without accusing the Minister of lying, I am not quite sure that I believe in it all the time that when the Minister stepped in, one of the first major reports was that we were not allowed to bully the banks. I think we all agree that it should be easy to be a company, but the fact is that there are some types of company which, if we do not regulate properly, can potentially cause quite considerable social damage. That is exactly what Jesper Rangvid responded to and warned of in his chronicle in Berlingske yesterday, and I did not hear the Minister reply to the criticism that Jesper Rangvid made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135431	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135432	I do not regard this as a criticism of the policy I am pursuing, on the contrary, because I would like to see a stable financial sector. I myself have been involved in implementing the regulation and introducing the supervisory tools needed to enable the financial sector to get through the challenges in full. So I almost see it as a backlap in relation to the policy we have been pursuing. But it is not in conflict with the fact that we are now stopping and considering how the line should be forward-looking. Have we struck the right balance between the costs of regulation and the gains? I have traditionally had a good dialogue with the Social Democratic Party about this, and I also hope that we will not over-regulate; that we will make it less burdensome to be a business if that is possible within the framework of ensuring financial stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135516	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135517	But we will certainly have a dialogue on this. I also believe that the Minister can be sure that the Social Democratic Party will not be interested in over-regulating anything, and we would also like to discuss the calibration of the rules that are there and so on. What is just important to us, and which is one of the things that the Minister also takes into account in his reply, is that there is not necessarily the prospect of a special election in the United States and, as the political climate is right now, that there are much more burdensome rules, either at EU level or as part of the Basel process. This is certainly an open discussion right now. And there is my question: are we not a round too early to prepare for deregulation now, when it is that we do not actually know whether there are new regulations on the international road?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135606	Here you go for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135607	It's very connected. There will certainly be new international regulation, according to reports from Basel, and let us see what is quite explicitly happening at EU level. At the same time, of course, we have to look at whether we have regulated too much at home, because it has been nice to have and not need to have, and there we have to do an analysis of it. I find it difficult to oppose an analysis of whether too much regulation has been made in the financial sector, because it is a growth engine for Danish society that we have banks that want to lend money to companies so that they can invest in jobs and innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135640	Thank you for that, and that concludes the question. There are new questions for the Minister of Industry by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135647	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135648	Thank you. Will the Minister explain whether the government will take into account the clear recommendation of the Rangvid report, which points out that great care should be taken to ease the tightening of financial regulation that is or is being implemented to ensure robust credit institutions even if pressure arises for such relief during a boom?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135712	I very much agree with that. And, as I said in answering my last question, the regulation implemented during and after the financial crisis has, of course, contributed to the fact that today we have a healthy and robust financial sector. That is why, as a minister, I myself have been the initiator of many of the regulatory proposals that have been made, and my party has been involved as a conciliation party in all of them. However, as I also said on the last issue, the review of the financial regulation that we are now setting in motion does not, of course, aim to undermine financial stability. It aims to see whether the financial sector can be made stronger so that they can borrow more money and invest in growth and production and innovation and jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135757	Thank you to the Minister for his reply and also thank you for pointing out that this recommendation is strong in the Minister's mind. In any case, we shall do our best to keep the Minister reminded of this very recommendation. Because there was a reason why the Rangvid report wrote as it was. In other words, this is exactly the situation we are in now in the Danish economy, where it has slowly begun to go well again. Perhaps some will even say that it is going quite quickly to go well again and thus increases the demands and desires of parts of the financial sector and perhaps others out there, in relation to the fact that you might now be able to relax some of the rules that we just after the financial crisis seemed reasonable in order to shield ourselves from further crises. I just think that's very, very important to keep carrying that. There is nothing wrong with doing any analysis work and again it is not about accusing the Minister of lying or because we do not trust him if it wasn't because you were left with the feeling of not having a hundred percent confidence that the analysis work is not being done with the conscious purpose that there are certain rules you want to get rid of. So I would like to ask: has the Minister had a dialogue with some credit institutions or the like, which points to some specific rules where there is an element of over-regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405135916	I think this is a very relevant question, because the intention is, of course, that we should have a thorough analysis to get a proper basis for decision-making. I do not have any specific proposals yet, because it is precisely necessary to examine whether, for example, we are going to have to look at them. the regulation implemented has overlapd and whether the purpose of the rules can be achieved in a less burdensome way. And if it can, I also find it difficult to imagine that social democracy will not also think it is a good idea. After all, the aim is to ensure that the costs of regulation are proportionate to the gains and that, in the light of the experience we have now, we also have the right balance in regulation. And there it is always underlying that the financial sector is of great importance for Denmark, also for growth, and therefore there must also be reasonable conditions for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140009	There is no doubt that the financial sector is not alone of great importance to Denmark. It has a vital importance, both in terms of people being able to lend to the companies and housing they want to invest in or buy, but also in the sense that, as we saw up to 2008 and 2009, if we do not have a very careful eye on how the financial sector behaves and what regulations cover the financial sector, then things can go very, very wrong. Then you can lose what amounts to a decade of prosperity, which was largely what we did in the course of the financial crisis. Then the Minister will only try to answer once again: is the Minister aware that there are some banks out there who have said that precisely this specific rule seems to them to be really overburdening them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140059	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140100	The most important thing for me is the analysis work and the analysis being done. Can we find regulation where there is overlap and which is so burdensome in relation to the effect that it can be effectively removed? If it does not upset the boat and financial stability and the agreements we have made, of course, then I do not think there is any reason to over-regulation the financial sector. But it has to do with the analysis work, and then we have to have a dialogue on it. My only purpose is to ensure that we still have calm on the boat so that financial stability is present, while at the same time looking at whether we can have a deregulation that removes overlap and makes life a little easier for the financial sector so that they can borrow some more money out for sensible investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140146	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140148	I am sorry to the Minister that I keep coming back to the same thing, but I think that what I am basically trying to ask is: fine enough with the analysis work, but can the Minister not mention some banks, credit institutions, whatever, who have asked for it here, so as to point out that here they are being over-regulated, that this is a barrier to the type of business they would like to run while we have in mind that most Danish banks are now barely a decade after the financial crisis? They even pay very, very large dividends to their shareholders, they also make very large stock buy-backs, that is to say, it does not look like a sector that is ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140233	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140234	No, but you don't have to feel bad to deregulate. In other words, if we can make the financial sector even stronger in Denmark and attract jobs to Denmark, it is, of course, like an industry that is important for us to have. It provides good jobs, it attracts talents, while at the same time giving us a market for investing in entrepreneurs and businesses and giving the Danes security, in relation to their housing economy being in order, by having some competition in the financial field. So the aim is not to find occupations that are in need, but to find occupations that are perhaps over-regulated and that we can find out through a closet and an analysis work whether we can deregulate, so that we provide better conditions of growth for that profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140314	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Industry. It's this time from sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140320	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140323	Thank you. What does the Minister mean by his statements, which are reproduced in FinansWatch on 21 March 2017, that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be given the opportunity to dismiss a member of the management of a financial institution if the bank does not comply with the money laundering regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140338	Thank you for the good and relevant question, because the case of Panama Papers shows that the banks' management over time has not had enough focus on ensuring that the money laundering rules are complied with. The latest case, which is based in Moldova, unfortunately points in the same direction. These cases of involvement of Danish banks in money laundering cases are totally unacceptable. There is therefore a need for us to make clear to the top management of the banks that the money laundering area must be taken seriously and that it has consequences if it does not happen. I have therefore proposed that the requirements for the suitability and integrity of management members be tightened up, so that infringements of the law on money laundering are subject to the responsibility of directors in accordance with these requirements. This makes it possible for the suitability of each member of the board or board of directors to be re-evaluated to a greater extent than at present in the event of a breach of the laundering rules. This means that, if necessary, a management member can be removed from his position. This should promote a greater focus on money laundering at the top level of corporate governance. At the same time, it may help to ensure that those responsible for money laundering below the organisations have a sufficient mandate to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140451	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140453	Thank you. I think that's good tactics. What is important for the social democracy is that we follow up the cases we have seen quickly and consistently. We have seen over a number of years that, despite the fact that we have a regulation in this area that is clear, Danish banks have not, unfortunately, been sufficiently consistent. So that's why this is some bars going in the right direction. The question is how hard we can go about it. There was a headline in Berlingske a few weeks ago saying: Should Danish bank managers now also be able to go to jail for this? In other words, what is the Minister's consideration when it comes to being able to go into management level? Is it the case that it is personal fines and possibly, even more far-reaching, prison sentences to the managements, or that they can be asked to resign? Or is it also possible to say at the same time that the bank itself has to be subject to greater fines, even if it can also be attributed responsibility to the bank manager? What is the Minister's thinking about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140604	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140605	Fortunately, we also have a good political dialogue with the conciliation parties about the fact that management responsibility can be invoked if the money laundering rules are broken. And then the FSA can remove a director or a board member from the post. I am also suggesting that there will be higher fines, significantly higher fines, so that banks will pay if they break the money laundering rules. If the director has then violated other financial legislation • it may be fraud or something like that it is a police matter which SØIK investigates, and then it is up to SØIK to check whether the charges should first be filed and then prosecuted against him. And then he can risk some kind of punishment if SØIK and the prosecution decide to prosecute him.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140700-2	Thank you. Now it is often the case in systems that we also know within the political system that if some cases arise, the senior management can sometimes send responsibility down into the system. And in principle, I think it is best to say that the senior management of a bank has the overall responsibility to ensure that middle managers and people down to the level of advisors do not participate in money laundering. How will the Minister in law ensure that, in a possible trial against a bank manager, responsibility can not simply be reduced with ease?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140740	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140742	Management responsibilities are management responsibilities. After all, there is a difference between accepting legal criminal liability by carrying out a deliberate act which SØIK chooses to prosecute first and then indictment, or whether it is a management responsibility which neglects its tasks in relation to the money laundering rules within the bank. If the FSA considers that it is so glaring and burdensome that one has neglected one's management responsibilities, even if it is some others, then it can be removed, because then it is the manager who is responsible. However, it must be up to the FSA to assess how closely the manager concerned has been involved in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140826	Thank you. The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140827	When we look at the fact that the management has this responsibility and that there may be a judgment, what is to be done in the future with regard to each bank manager? Do there have to be some instruments that make it even more difficult than today to take the opportunity in the future to join a board of directors or a board of directors or to carry out advisory tasks in the Danish financial world?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140854	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140856	Well, it will be a concrete assessment by the FSA. The FSA always has to assess the fact that this is the case today when it comes to the management positions and the management battles in the financial sector, that is to say, it needs to be assessed appropriately and honestly in relation to the individual management post. However, it is clear that if one has been convicted in the past or has been deprived of its function in the past, it will weigh heavily in the FSA's assessment of the person's reputation. Especially in relation to directors, I think it would be very difficult to maintain confidence in a person who has been deposed on the basis of infringements of the money laundering rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140937	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is by Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140944	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405140946	Does the Minister consider that it would be okay if, under the authority of the Minister, the Financial Supervisory Authority were to dismiss a member from the management of a financial institution and that he/she would subsequently receive some form of contractual redundancy payment or bonus scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141003	No, I don't think that's fair. I do not think it would be okay for a management member to receive a bonus or similar if the FSA has considered that the management member in question is not fit to contest his position. Financial sector managers, including financial institutions, are currently subject to a number of restrictive rules on their remuneration, including in particular: restrictions on bonuses and rules on redundancy payments. And these are the rules that have been agreed in the financial conciliation area with the political agreement on remuneration in the financial sector from 2010, which I myself, incidentally, made as Minister of Business. It is already the case today that a financial institution should reduce bonuses to management in a number of cases. This applies, for example, if the bonuses prove to be based on erroneous results and if the recipient is in bad faith, or in cases where the financial situation of a financial institution proves to be significantly impaired. Special rules also apply to redundancy payments to directors in the financial sector, including: that redundancy payments exceeding the total remuneration of the second year are subject to stricter payment requirements. Common to all bonuses and redundancy payments is that they must not reward missing results or wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141120	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141122	I think it is important that the banks recognise that they also have social responsibility. And some of what I think many Danes are feeling really, really bad about on top of the financial crisis is how we saw certain financial institutions that really helped to overthrow large parts of the Danish economy and overturn many families' finances, and then some bank managers who simply scored the checkout. And then they sit somewhere in Denmark today and have theirs on the dry, while there are still many people who are struggling with the aftermath of the financial crisis. That is why, of course, I think it is good that we have some rules for this in Denmark today. However, now that we are, hopefully, not going to have that long to enter into some concrete negotiations on how we can tighten this money laundering area, it is also important to know whether the Minister is positive about us going in and tightening the screw extra much in this area, so that we ensure that this cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141220	I would still like to tighten as much as possible, but my feeling is that the legislation in this area is working very well today. And as I mentioned before, it is not right for you to receive a bonus if you have broken the rules. So, of course, I think we should grow what the legislation is like today and look at it before we tighten up further. I therefore have the expectation that financial undertakings will, of course, comply with the rules, including on this point. If they don't, we'll have the FSA to keep an eye on it in the first place. That is why we have to cultivate, if there is not enough legal basis for action to be taken in relation to this complex, and that, of course, no bonus should be paid in such a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141312	Thank you. And that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141314	Thank you. Well, that sounds good, because I was somewhat sceptical when I heard the Minister expressing his intention to embrace the Danish banks and stop bullying the banks, as the Minister claimed they were. I now think that, in such a relationship between us in the political system and the banks, it is about the fact that, of course, we have a social responsibility as elected politicians, but it certainly also has a great influence on the economy of companies and citizens. So I am positive about that, if that is the case, that we can include this in the negotiations when we get there, and then look at whether the rules are good enough as they are today or whether we need to tighten them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141356	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141357	Thank you. I think it is a good idea for us to continue this discussion in the context of political negotiations and get rid of what the law allows today. I see that we have an adequate legal basis and that it makes sense, also because there must be self-regulation among financial companies. But that is something we must discuss politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141417	Thank you. Then the next question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and that is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141431	Thank you, President. When the Minister argues in a speech in the newspaper Jyllands-Posten on 31 March 2017 that the level of ambition in the social democracy's growth reform is not high enough, does the Minister not agree that the current government has not implemented growth initiatives that meet the government's objectives and that the Social Democracy has presented initiatives that will lift GDP significantly more than the proposals that the current government has been able to implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141502	Thank you for the question. It is the Government's ambition to pursue a policy that boosts employment by 55,000-60,000 and promises prosperity by 80 billion. kr. The government is approx. Four months old, and I would like to admit to the questioner that we have not implemented all the growth initiatives that enable us to achieve that objective. If there had been a government that had done so, it would probably have been Denmark's record first of all; secondly, there would probably have been almost a parliamentary election, because the jubilant masses would just rejoice at the growth and prosperity that would be in the country. The government is on the way with initiatives. In this spring there will be an updated 2025 plan, and the government will also come up with a number of other initiatives that will ensure that the growth objective is met. Among other things, it will: This is a withdrawal reform, so that those who can stay a little longer in the labour market. We want to reduce taxes and taxes on business and we want to reduce taxes on labour income. When you look at the Social Democrats' proposals for growth initiatives, I would like to sign up for the proposal. I would like to sign that there is some kind of admission that tax works and that tax matters. The social democracy initiative is just not ambitious enough, much more needs to be done to facilitate business conditions. The proposal is totally inadequate in terms of securing sufficient labour for the business community, and the Social Democrats' proposals cannot stem the risk of the recovery stalling due to a lack of hands. We are not even trying to do anything about raising employment in the longer term. So there are a great many shortcomings in the proposal and there are no ambitions to be made. But again I would like to sign that the Social Democratic Party has come up with the idea that tax is important, especially when you put it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141658	I can't believe it. Bearing in mind that the government that was ahead of the Left Government and then the VLAK government carried out one growth reform after another broadly in the Folketing and got the wheels going, and that a large number of the measures and ways of working that were being worked on, namely targeted initiatives in specific fields, in specific areas of business, are part of a strategy and principle that both the former government, Lars Løkke Rasmussen II, and the current government, Lars Løkke Rasmussen III, have carried on, it is good enough strong tobacco to have to stand here and listen to what I can strictly only perceive as a minister throwing stones while he himself lives in a glasshouse. Because the truth is that nothing has happened. There has been no call for anything just like negotiations on growth initiatives. That is why my obvious first question to the Minister may be: when is it really that the government is going to call for negotiations? Because it is quite clear that we Social Democrats have been in the working clothes; moreover, we have been doing so ever since the last parliamentary elections, and there is no doubt that we would very much like to take initiatives. Then we can discuss politically what we want and try to reach agreement. However, experience is that it is usually possible to reach a broad consensus on this in the Folketing. So just one comment: at the beginning of the reply, the Minister says that the government will increase employment by 55,000-60,000. I know it's the job offer the government wants to increase with that number.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141847	I understand, sir. Benny Engelbrecht's speech was such that it has gone away from the point of view of canceling labour supply reforms. I think that is very positive, and I would like to acknowledge that, in other words, the Social Democratic Party, as I understand it, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht's speech, now returning to the style of Social Democracy when they were in government last. At that time, as far as I am concerned, the Radical Left was the one who helped bring social democracy back on the narrow path of virtue, and one has then been a little less virtuous in terms of economic policy since the parliamentary elections. But if what I am hearing now is that social democracy is back to labour supply reform, then I can only sign. Unfortunately, what I have seen so far in the growth scenario that has come is a very, very high degree of optimism in relation to which initiatives can give what effects I haven't seen since Fair Change and Fair Solution, and since Bjarne Corydon later had to admit that one went back to common methods of calculation. I hope that we can now agree on labour supply reforms and common methods of calculation, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141952	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405141954	It seems to me that the Minister is unable to read or listen. It is quite clear from the proposals put forward by the Social Democrats that we want to face bottleneck challenges, for example. In particular, it is a question of getting the right labour force, the right labour supply for the tasks to be solved. The old-fashioned approach of looking at labour supply alone is not enough. Then the Minister has still not answered if it was not wrong for the Minister to say at the outset that employment would be increased. As far as I know, it is still the job offer with which the government has ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142032	It is not only the labour supply that the government wants to do something about. We would also like to do things that improve productivity, because we believe that we should go on two feet in politics, so that we have both labour supply reforms and do something about productivity. I just have to say that in the social democracy proposal there is a proposal to give companies an increased deduction of 130 per cent. for expenditure on research and development. That sounds very good, but according to the Social Democracy itself, the proposal will give a lasting boost in GDP of 121⁄2 billion. kr. That is where I say that I just haven't seen an optimism of that nature since the presentation of a Fair Solution and Fair Change. So I find it a little worrying that it is based on such optimistic assumptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142121	In any case, I must say that optimism, in relation to whether the present government ever stands here and spends its time throwing one stone after another at Social Democracy and has not yet answered whether there is actually an invitation to broad negotiations. As the Minister replies, it seems that the Minister only intends to continue throwing stones and, in this way, does not intend to produce any results at all. That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142159	Last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142200	Don't worry, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, who will be invited, also to the Social Democratic Party. We are, in fact, a government that wants to negotiate broadly with the And we have no reason to go on like this, it will be good, with or without the help of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142235	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Employment. It's from sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142245	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that a Romanian construction company in Aarhus should be given several orders from the Labour Inspectorate, but can continue to operate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142259	Thank you for the question. The short answer is no. But perhaps it should be accompanied by a deepening. It is totally unacceptable that a company in this way grossly disregards the safety of a construction site and repeatedly violates the law and also fails to correct it when it is ordered by the Labour Inspectorate. Safety must be in order, otherwise the various authorities will have to fight hard. Therefore, it was also agreed with the 2015 Working Environment Agreement to increase the fines, among others. in the case of repetition. At the same time, the Danish Labour Inspectorate initiates such cases with increased supervision, and I have been informed that since September 2016 the Danish Labour Inspectorate has visited the specific company 12 times on the same construction site and 33 decisions have been made. I have also been informed that the Danish Labour Inspectorate has called the company, the developer and the main contractor for a meeting during April to make it quite clear what the requirements of Danish legislation are. The Factory Inspectorate will follow the company closely and inform the Romanian authorities about the company's violations of health and safety legislation in Denmark. This is part of the cooperation resulting from the enforcement directive. However, it is also important to establish that the Factory Inspectorate cannot close down the company. As a starting point, I do not believe that this should be the task of the Factory Inspectorate either. The effect would be questionable because the company would subsequently only be able to establish itself under a new name or a new CVR number. Having said that, as you know, we need to look at how we can improve the overall working environment. That is why I have just taken the initiative in the Working Environment Committee, which the Danish People's Party is part of, that we should look at through a committee of experts how we can strengthen our working environment. In this respect, we will also be discussing whether the rules currently in force in relation to sanctions meet the needs that we believe are present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142447	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142449	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister agrees, as a starting point, that this is not acceptable, but it is still the case that the company is continuing, and even though the Danish Labour Inspectorate is following the company closely, as it says, the result is still gone, that this company is repeatedly violating one section of the health and safety legislation after another roughly, but continues to do so. So is the question whether sanctions are too low? Because no matter how you turn it around, a company that deliberately blows loudly and nicely on the rules, but gets to continue, well, you can say, the authorities are ineffective, I think. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142534	I'm thinking two things. First of all, I believe that we also need to take our own stock and ensure even better cooperation between the public authorities, between the Labour Inspectorate and, for example, between the Labour Inspectorate. Police. Secondly, I am quite open to discussing whether there is a need for further sanctions and further tightening up in relation to those who grossly neglect the working environment, which may have fatal consequences for those who work in the jobs which may be affected in this respect, but also for that matter for the environment that may be affected by a poor working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142611	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142612	Again, I would like to thank you for the words. To this day, this company is running, and in principle, they can be breaking the law right now. I shall not be able to say whether the company has actually paid the fines it has been given, but there is some danger that fines and all sorts of other claims will be parked in the company, which will then close and then create a new one. In short, is the signal of this story not the unfortunate fact that many other law-abiding companies may give up the belief that the system protects the legitimate business because you can see that the illegal business is simply allowed to run around with the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142651	It's a completely open door, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen is running in. That is also why I say that it is in the OSH circle, as the Danish People's Party is also a part, it makes sense to discuss whether further sanctions should be imposed, further tightening up compared to the type of companies involved in the case. In general, I think it is a bad thing to handle a single matter here in the Assembly, but in general we are experiencing problems of the kind outlined, and there is no doubt for me that further political initiatives need to be taken. But we will be discussing this in the working environment circle, and the happy message is that there is also the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142730	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142735	Thank you, President. In this respect, we know that this is one of the companies that is basically looking at what is happening. Dansk Folkeparti has previously suggested that companies that come to Denmark and work in this way should deposit a deposit of e.g.: 20,000 kroner, because then you were sure you'd covered the fine if they didn't want to pay. If the Minister is prepared to make a tightening-up, which is that if the Minister wants them to have free access to Denmark and work, one should be able to say that foreign companies must deposit a deposit of DKK 20,000. in the RUT register, and when they leave the country and they have lived up to all the demands they have to, will they, of course, get the money back? Would the Minister like to take a look at this? The minister just said it was an open door that was kicked in, but is there any chance that the minister will be involved in looking at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142830	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142832	The open door that was kicked in was in relation to another question. In general, however, the Danish People's Party kicks open doors in the field of employment. I am quite prepared to discuss further sanctions, but it must of course also be compatible with EU law, and I am not in a position to respond to that on a stand-by basis. However, I look forward to the discussions that we are going to have. I am not going to stand by and watch over companies that look great at the working environment and are repeatedly unable to comply with the legislation in force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142905	I am delighted if the Minister is open to that, because then we could take it at the next meeting we have in the Working Environment Committee and look at how we should tighten up. I do not see that it can hurt anything if we say that you have to deposit when you work in Denmark. And if you meet all the demands that have been made, you will, of course, get the money back when you leave the country. I don't see why anyone would mind. But I know that the Minister's party itself has been opposed to this at the time. So the question is whether there have been new notes and whether the Minister is ready to tighten up further on access to Denmark for these companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142945	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405142946	I am prepared to look at the possible solutions, which are also compatible with EU law. The best way to create these solutions will be to hold a debate which we will not be taking in the Assembly. We can do that in the conciliation circle. And it is quite clear that it is the OSH circle that often meets and where this theme is certainly also relevant to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143009	Thank you, and it's back to the main questioner, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143015	Thank you. Well, we got around on the various issues. I fully agree with the Minister that it is a bad thing to deal with matters in the Parliamentary Chamber. But the fact is that the real world is a jigsaw puzzle of all sorts of small cases, so when I raise a case like this, it is of course partly on the basis of the specific situation, on the basis of specific cases, and partly on the basis of what to say, a general future aim. I shall look forward to the discussions that the Minister for Employment will convene. I just need once and for all to get the Minister's confirmation that this is a form of social dumping at the angle that it is the working environment that you are competing on and that it is extremely important to stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143104	Fortunately, we come a long way and the issue revolves around many different themes. As ministers respond to everything that is being asked, I will also endeavour to do so. I agree one hundred percent with the Danish People's Party that one should have a very strong focus on ensuring that the working environment is respected. And I agree one hundred percent that it is not acceptable to see these repeated violations. Then the Danish People's Party wants me to do so myself, too, to see how it can be done more effectively than is the case today. There is the good news that we will be discussing this again in the Working Environment Association, and fortunately it is also part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143141	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. The next question has been put to the Minister for Employment, so that the Minister for Employment is in order, and that is what Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143158	Thank you, President. I read out the question: if the government's basis indicates an objective that the government will ask those who can to stay a little longer on the labour market, will the Minister, on that basis, explain when he thinks it is reasonable for a 45-year-old warehouse manager to expect to resign and retire?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143217	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143218	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that, as the Minister for Finance has already stated in this Chamber, the government will come up with a proposal to withdraw from the labour market later this spring. The Danes live longer and become healthier, and you should be happy about that; in fact, life expectancy has increased much faster than expected when we adopted the welfare agreement back in 2006 and thus the life expectancy of retirement age. The life expectancy of 60-year-olds has increased for both unskilled and those with short and long-term training, as has the employment rate. Therefore, the government, based on the previous government's 2025 plan, will come up with a new paper on withdrawal from the labour market for all Danes. However, I would like to emphasise that we already have good opportunities for withdrawal. For example, people who have been worn out after years of hard work in the labour market have. the possibility of a flexible job if their working capacity is substantially and permanently reduced. The worst affected, who are not able to have a meaningful link with the labour market at all, can be granted an early retirement pension. A particularly simple and rapid system has also been created in the form of a senior early retirement pension for persons with a long-term link with the labour market, which has a maximum of five years left in relation to the retirement age. As I said, I look forward to discussing the government's proposals later when we present it, and there will be plenty of opportunity to do what many would like to do, namely to discuss the extent of government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143342	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143343	Thank you for your answer. The reason why I have chosen to bring this issue to the Minister for Employment is that I recently visited a company called Abena in Aabenraa and there I met a number of employees and became aware that the Minister himself visited the company not so long ago in a different context to learn from the good experiences that the company has with the so-called Igu programmes. I was aware that there were some questions that the staff had and that they would actually have liked to put to the Minister. One of the questions is what I have brought with me today on behalf of Lars Jørgensen, who is 45 years old and who is a warehouse worker. This is because we are talking a lot about how long we should basically stay longer in the labour market, what is basically what the government's plans are; it is actually something that takes up an incredible amount for the ordinary employee, not only at Abena, but also in many other places. That is why this question is quite simple. Now the Minister cannot answer that, and it is of course a little too bad for Lars Jørgensen and his colleagues, but could the Minister at least give an indication of whether the Minister himself thinks it is reasonable to come, relatively long after we agreed in 2006 on the framework for what the withdrawal regime in Denmark should be like, and such wounds uncertainty about how long people who are in the middle of working life can expect to stay? After all, it is also about planning in relation to the individual's working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143537	It is quite true that I visited Abena in March, and I knew I didn't meet Lars Jørgensen, and therefore I didn't have the opportunity to discuss this theme of withdrawal with Lars Jørgensen either. But I can understand that, sir. Benny Engelbrecht has had the opportunity to do so. What I am glad about is that we can see that people live longer, both the unskilled and the skilled. It is really, really good that people have a longer life and how we are going to come up with an initiative in relation to withdrawal, one can be quite confident that we will be presenting here during the spring, and then I think it provides better basis for a discussion when all the elements of that initiative are known than at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143626	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143626-2	But does the Minister understand the uncertainty that this creates?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143634	Well, I am fully aware that there is a great deal of attention to the discussion about withdrawal. It is not least the questioner's own party that is very concerned about that question. The questioner's own party, as the Minister of Finance said earlier today, has one position when you sit in government and sometimes a slightly different attitude when you are in opposition. We have to take note of this, which is why I would like to say that I hope that the responsibility that has prevailed in the past for social democracy will also influence social democracy when we discuss how we can ensure the future of this society, so that we can also have a strong and stable welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143709	There's an enquirer on it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143713	I think it's quite fine that we have a minister, and I also asked the finance minister before that who wants to talk responsibility and everything else. At the same time, we have a colleague, Lars Sørensen, whom I myself have not personally met, but whom we would like to try to take seriously. I also have many former colleagues and have talked to many who are actually deeply concerned about when they can actually retire. I don't know if there's a lot of people in here at Christiansborg who can relate to it, but some have been working since they were 16-17 years old. These are unskilled people who, unfortunately, do not live as long as those who have an education. These are the people we're talking about. They are people who are worn out, people who have worked hard since they were very young, and there we have to challenge the government and the minister and hear the minister whether he does not recognise that these people are actually worried and that these people have a problem. The Minister may then come back with an automatic reply, as the former minister did, namely that there are some in opposition or in government, but I think that as a minister we should be dealing with creating insecurity for these people when they cannot really get an answer as to how long they should be in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143828	Now it would be far from me to give an automatic answer, so I will not do that at all to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. In relation to Lars Jørgensen, which I think the person is named • at Abena, there are, first and foremost, two things that it is important to emphasise. If it is the case that one gets worn out and does not have the opportunity to have a meaningful link with the labour market, then one can, among other things, do. receive an early retirement pension. So if it is the case that you do not have a working capacity, then there is already an opportunity today that those people who may have had a hard and long life in the labour market can be taken care of. In addition, I also think it is important that we take care of the fact that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's children and perhaps future grandchildren also have a strong and stable welfare society, where there is an economy to prioritise core welfare and ensure public spending, that there is a link between our spending and our income. That is why, of course, we also need to be aware that when we get to live longer and that is a joyful thing, we also need to ensure that there is a connection between how long you work and how long you are not in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143933	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405143934	But now it is not certain that my children and future grandchildren or the Minister's or those sitting in here, future children and grandchildren are actually going to become academics. They may become unskilled. It may also be that they become skilled, and so it may also be that they become worn out faster than others because they have a hard physical job. And that is why you just have to recognise that there is a group here that you have to help. Will one then make such a proposal, as was done in the 2025 plan, where the Left Government was a little lame, I think, proposed a senior flexible job scheme that could help 100 people? Is this the kind of little patchwork you want to bring back?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144006-2	Now I can tell Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that the former both talented and visionary V government never made petty proposals, and neither will we when we present a proposal for withdrawal. Then, of course, we will make a well-worked presentation, where we will also invite all the parties of the Folketing to a political discussion. I know, of course, that the Social Democrats, when they had the power of government, were very concerned that there should be coherence in the economy and, above all, that Mr Bjarne Corydon, the Minister for Finance, was very concerned at the fact that there was a link between public expenditure and the revenue that then came, and that responsibility, of course, also characterizes the social democracy to this day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144046	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144048	We are very concerned about the sustainability of the Danish economy, I can inform the Minister. I can also inform the Minister that so is there, and the Minister knows that, because it is also the government's view that there is sustainability in the Danish economy. What is the challenge is, of course, if you choose to give tax concessions, for example, for which there is not necessarily funding. If you do that, yes, then it may be that there will be problems in making the economy work together. So just for the record: Lars Jørgensen is a man who stays in good shape, and he intends to keep on for as long as he has to, but he would actually like to know how long it really is he has to plan to stay on the job market. I guess it's not too much to ask for a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144139	First of all, I am pleased to hear that Lars Jørgensen is an active and fresh man, who I must understand is 45 years old. And that is why it is not just tomorrow that Lars Jørgensen is retiring, no matter what may happen in the future. There may also be other governments after this. Even if this does not seem likely to happen, it cannot be ruled out that another government might come. That is why it can be said that this government is now being given the opportunity to discuss with the parties of the Folketing what must be done in relation to withdrawal, and I hope that the Social Democratic Party will, of course, exercise its political influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144211	Thank you, that was the end of Question 12, and so thank you to Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144229	Thank you. Would the Minister explain why the government believes it is important to anonymously state his local pizzaman if he is suspected of tax fraud or social security fraud when, at the same time, the government does not want anonymous representations from citizens who suspect the neighbour of exactly the same thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144244	Thank you for the question. I assume that what the questioner is asking is when and why I think as a Dane you should contact the authorities if you see illegal immigrants working in Denmark. And I see there's nodding. When I think this is important, it is because we have a labour market that is based on properness. We have a labour market where you have to treat your employees well, where you have to answer the tax that has to be paid and where there has to be order at all. And I think you have to attack this question from two sides. On the one hand, illegal immigrants are coming to Denmark, who have no right to be here, and on the other hand, some employers who support it are helping to undermine the labour market. And I know from my time as Minister for Employment that if you do not pay tax and VAT, that is, if there are problems with it, then there are usually also problems with the working environment and other things on these companies. That's why SKAT, the Labour Inspectorate and the police are raiding together. So that's one side of it. The other side of that is that we cannot allow a labour market and a business life, a business life, in Denmark, where there may be a situation, that on the one hand there is order in things that you treat your employees well, pay them the salary they need to have, and there is control of the working environment • while on the other side of the road they are completely flouting the rules we have, both on the working environment side, but also in relation to tax, VAT and other. This isn't fair competition. I don't really think that sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen disagrees with me on that point of view. And I would also like to say that this is not a question of pizzerias; this is a question of the fact that when there is no control of the labour market, you have to contact the authorities exactly as you should if there are other illegal practices you see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144511	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144513	I very much agree with everything the Minister says, but it was to get a little more substance in the discussion than anything about who likes pineapple on the pizza and what else has been running on social media. In other words, when the government has ruled out the possibility of notifying its neighbour, and Ventre's rapporteur, Marcus Knuth, is out to say that it is something else if you report a Dane, a neighbour, I would say that it could also be thought that you had a neighbor who had a black cleaning job done by an illegal immigrant. I fully agree with the Minister that this is a huge problem and that it completely undermines the Danish labour market. But why is it that the government has dropped the possibility of reporting a goose-eyed ethnic Dane, also for tax fraud? Because it could also be that there were Danes who cheated on this, i.e. not pizza bakers, but Danes who, for example. used foreign cleaning services.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144602	I think it would be an advantage if Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen was just looking at the substance of this: that we have a labour market where we can see massive underpayment is being made especially by some groups. These are people who do not have the right to be here, and that means they must be sent out of the country again. But massive underpayment is going on, and there are probably also problems with the working environment in a number of these companies, so it would be a good thing if you cared about it rather than whether there are pineapples on a pizza. In fact, I think it is a flickering debate. I would say that it is the case that you can call the authorities, whether it is the SKAT or others, in exactly the same way as you could today, before that line came into the SKAT, as I know it is, Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen is referring to here. It is not the case that you have cut the telephone lines to SKAT, so you always have the opportunity to contact the authorities if you see that something is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144700	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144701	I'm the one who didn't want to talk about pineapples on the pizzas. I'll tell you how it is on social media. When the minister puts up a cake, there's a lot of others taking pictures of a cake. And now we've seen a lot of people report their pizzerias about how good they are and stuff like that. The substance for me is that not correct? If I were to report a pizza man because I think there is some social fraud, some cheating or illegal immigration, then it also requires something to be done. I guess it's not just the public's duty to get something done about this, to get some supervision done, too. So I guess it's regrettable if those control bodies don't work and it's now up to the citizens to go around and report people. Because, of course, if you know something, you have to do it. But is the Minister satisfied with the work of the Labour Inspectorate and the government itself in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144745	I believe that this is the duty of all of us. I fully agree with Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen in that it is of course very, very much the task of the authorities, and that is why a raid is being carried out where both the SKAT, the police and the Labour Inspectorate are involved. And that's precisely because if there's a problem in one place, it's often somewhere else. In other words, if there is a problem with tax and VAT, there is also often the problem with the working environment. In fact, however, I believe that we, as citizens, also have a duty to ensure that this is done properly. It's like if I walk on the street and see that there's a drunk man getting in his car, I'll call the authorities and say, "You know what, I think there's something wrong." 'Cause he can take a man down right after.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144827	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144828	We don't disagree on that. Of course you have a duty if you experience something in society, that is, that there are some who cheat or that there is something that does not work. I just ask: can we be sure that the government also has initiatives so that something is done about this? Because it is not just citizens who have to report something. This suggests that it is a problem which is quite extensive. So, are there any funds being set aside? Will there be any action plans in relation to doing something about this, which is social dumping and fraud in relation to Danish society? So is there something coming from the government in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405144857	Well, I think we should look at it a little broadly. For example: I think it is important to divide companies into two groups. There are those who are deliberately cheating, and we must come after them, and I will not deny that you could also raise the fines in order to deliberately cheat. Then there is certainly also a group of companies that are not aware that they can employ illegal labour. For example: A tax card can be issued in Denmark even if you do not have a residence and work permit. I think that's one of the things you could look at if you could change that. You could also look at whether the authorities could be better at, for example. to inform a company that, for example, if they: If a foreign student has an employee who stops studying, then his working conditions, i.e. opportunities to work in the country, can change a lot. It is not certain that companies are necessarily aware of this. And that is why it might well be that the authorities should be better at providing information on this matter. So I'm actually willing to take a broad look at this, but I think it's important to divide companies into two. Those who deliberately cheat, we must come after so much. And those who do not deliberately cheat may well have to be better informed by the authorities about the realities of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145010	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Question 14 is for the Minister of Taxation, and that is what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145022	Thank you, President. The question is: who is the minister's particular concern when he writes on his Facebook page that he is fighting for the vendanges to be allowed to keep more of their hard-earned crowns?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145033	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145034	That's one of them. Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's constituents in Frederikshavn, just as the rest of the people who live north of the fjord are Vendells. After all, the government takes the view that we want to ensure that people on the labour market are allowed to keep more of what they earn instead of having to pay it in taxes. Perhaps we could move more people from outside the labour market to self-supporting. And that is fundamental, because this government and I, as the tax minister, believe that each person thrives best in a working community, in other words by being in the labour market. It's about rewarding those who are on the labour market and working hard... it can be the vending people... but that's also the way it is, I have to hurry to say to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that the policy implemented by the government and I as tax minister not only benefits people north of the fjord. It benefits all Danes. But there I have chosen to market myself on the policy towards the group of citizens with whom I have a particularly close relationship, because they live in the area where I am elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145143	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145144	Thank you for your answer. I was wondering if it was such a lex North Jutland for the three who are here in the Chamber and are managing the course of events right at the moment, was after all chosen by the Vendells among others. And that is why it could be fine on a April day to announce that there was now a prospect of tax cuts. This is not the fundamental discussion about who will then pay the tax relief and what is in it and who cannot get it and who will have it, etc., I am asking, but I am asking because, when the tax minister goes out and says something like this, it is usually followed by a concrete action, otherwise there is no point in saying it. Politics is also about signals. It is true that I know that the tax minister has visited some sailors, some Danes, who work in Swedish shipping companies. And when the Social Democratic Party was in power, they only paid taxes in Sweden 17 per cent. Swedish sailor's tax and that was to be understood. But now the bourgeois government, which I suppose the tax minister still represents, has made sure that they're not told whether it's supposed to be blocked... to pay tax in both places. After all, I have provided evidence to the tax minister by taking their advance registrations with statements showing that some of them may pay as much as 73 per cent. Baby. There it was that I thought that when the tax minister advertises so much on his facebook page that their hard-earned crowns are currency home to Denmark etc., it might as well be that they were the sailors he was thinking of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145322	Those I was thinking about were the people who are outside the labour market today to move people outside the labour market into the labour market. After all, the government wants to do that by lowering the tax on work... something we hope we can get Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's party will join when we come to that debate this autumn. There it is, then, my expectation that the government will deliver on what I have written on my facebook page, but even more so on what is in the government base. In relation to the question of seafarers, I would like to say that I was not thinking of them. But I have also discussed that issue with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, and this is an issue that I too would like to give an undertaking here today to look at once again. But when my predecessors, some of whom were Social Democrats, have not solved the problem, it is because it is not so easy to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145411	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145412	There is, of course, the fact that we also heard that yesterday the Minister for Tax was talking about the same thing, namely what the Red Tax Ministers could have done and would have done and had not done and all that. But can the Minister of Taxation not confirm that and I think it was by my small, modest intervention that in 2001 it was said that the Danes who worked in foreign shipping companies paid, for example. Swedish seaman's tax of 17 per cent. What is then quite difficult to understand is that they saw when they retire, of a much smaller amount having to pay much, much more and double. And when you retire, you probably got rid of your priority debt, so you don't have a deduction. That is why some of them are actually going to pay 73 per cent. Baby. I would just like the Minister to confirm that. And in the period when this was changed, it was a Left Treasure Minister sitting at the helm. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145515	I'd like to say to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that I think it is unreasonable that one should pay 73 per cent. Baby. That is so unfair. But it is an isolated group which is caught up in their experience of being taxed, not by 73 per cent. in Denmark, but with some percentage in Denmark and something else in Sweden as part of the double taxation convention. And when the problem has not been solved, it is because it is not that easy to solve. But I'd like to give Mr. Bjarne Laustsen the undertaking that I will have a talk with my colleague on the other side of the water, i.e. the Øresund, to see if a solution can be found to this problem. Because it is unreasonable for some to have to pay 73 per cent. Baby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145556	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145558	Let us then put on the jahat and take a positive view of it, but now it is a bit like shooting the bear to sell the skins, what comes first, and all that, because we have been promised something that has not quite been kept in the city court, and therefore there is some scepticism. And what you tell them is that it's 30%. in tax to Sweden and 43 per cent. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. That's 73 percent. After my count. That is why it would be gratifying if the tax minister wanted to make a new facebook post, where he said directly: I would like to come to Frederikshavn and discuss this matter with the retired sailors, and I fully agree that 73 per cent. You guys, honey, it's too much. Then there is the special fact that it is the Swedes who pay the pension because you have worked outside. Then, of course, there is a conversion factor where time has also made the Swedish crown worth less than the Danish crown. It's an element of this. This is where we might be able to convince them together that we should adopt the euro, because then that problem would be solved, as I see it. But at least I think we should find a solution, and I will sign for it if the tax minister wants to go up there with you, so that we can find a solution and he can bring his officials, if that is technicalities, because I think the Swedes do not care how much we add to the Swedish seaman's tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145721	I just don't want that sir. Bjarne Laustsen has to pay tax on his speaking time, but now it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145726	That might be very good, but that is not what the question is about. I mean, I say, and I would like to repeat that I would like to see what we can do to find a solution, but when it is not easy to find a solution and therefore I promise not only to solve it, it is because it is a problem that has existed for a number of years and because it requires us to adjust the Danish-Swedish double taxation agreement. But I'm happy to go into that room, and I've made that commitment, too. Bjarne Laustsen earlier, and I also made that promise to the sailors, when I visited them 11⁄2 years ago, I think it was but when it's not solved, it's because it's not quite easy to solve. But I should like to give the undertaking that we will look again at the matter, because it is as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen says, unfairly, that you have to pay 73 per cent. Baby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145815	Thank you. That was the end of Question 14 and you are lucky that the President is also somewhat interested in the matter and can therefore overlook the overrun of speaking time. The next question is by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen to the tax minister, and I would just like to say that you have two minutes of speaking time first and then 1⁄2 minutes per minute. Question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145834	We must see if we can use our speaking time. Why does the Minister think that it is reasonable that the North Jutland air commuters should be treated less favourably than other employees when they have to travel between home and work, given that the Minister has long since promised to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145850	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405145851	Thank you for the question. I would like to emphasise that North Jutland air commuters can deduct their actual costs of air transport according to the rules that apply today. This applies to all air commuters, whether you are commuting from North Jutland or elsewhere in the country. The question that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen travels, is it possible to deduct the transport allowance as if you had been driving? In 2009, a special rule was introduced whereby air commuters were deducted from the actual costs of the aircraft and then, of course, the transport to and from the airport. Unfortunately, the 2009 change did not focus on the negative consequences for certain groups of air commuters; attempts were made to solve a Bornholm problem and, in fact, affected some Northern Jutlanders in an unfair way. In retrospect, it must be acknowledged that the process of change in the rules and the information provided to the commuters was far from optimal. It is regrettable and it does not meet the standards that I want to set in relation to legal certainty, simple and clear rules and the way in which the tax administration should behave. That is why I said earlier that I would like to look at whether the rules can be changed so that air commuters can be better accommodated. It then takes some time to find a possible solution, and the challenge has been to find a solution that is both relatively simple and fair to all and that can also be financed. At the same time, it has been my wish that foreign commuters, i.e. people commuting out of Denmark, should not be given too much consideration. Against this background, I have proposed that air commuters be given a free choice between deducting the actual costs or the transport allowance for normal road transport on the basis of the kilometre charge set by the Tax Council. This is a solution in which no air commuter is put at a disadvantage than today, but it will give some air commuters, especially those in the outermost regions, a higher transport allowance. And that solution is part of draft law 182, which we first dealt with in this Chamber yesterday. In this context, I have had a dialogue with the North Jutland air commuters and explained the possibilities that I currently see for improving the rules. And even if no one is disadvantaged by the proposal, the air commuters prefer to keep the current rules. I have taken note of that, which is why I will withdraw that part of the legislative proposal, and then we will have to work on a better solution. But it's certainly not something we can do in this collection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150120	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150120-2	Thanks for the answer, which I'm really sorry to hear. Because I have no objection to a bourgeois tax minister being re-elected, but I find it a little difficult to see what the Northern Jutlanders can expect when one goes out and admits quite clearly that a mistake has been made by the former tax minister Kristian Jensen in 2009 because the information was not good enough. You were not aware of the consequences; there have been legal proceedings, and it has cost some individual airline commuters several hundred thousand kroner and that throughout that period you could easily have corrected this if you wanted to. And now the minister does not lie down flat like his colleague next to him and apologises to the Danish Parliament for this treatment, but gives some, I think, graphic answers that you have intended to find something, but now it cannot be done and so on. You haven't heard the commuters about what it takes. I am quite sure that we in the Social Democratic Party are working to find out that no one should be lurking this scheme. But the principle we laid down in 1994 was that, regardless of how you get to and from work, there is a deduction for the number of kilometres you have, according to some table, and there is a de minimis limit of 24 km. So it doesn't really matter if you're riding a bike or, as I said here yesterday, on a red Puch Maxi with an Arlaskasse on the back. That is a principle, and that is why my question is: why should the North Jutland air commuters be treated differently from other workers who travel between home and work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150253	But the North Jutland air commuters are not treated differently from the air commuters in the rest of the country. There is some geography in North Jutland that makes the consequences of the rules that apply different because the distances are longer. But the rules are the same for everyone. Then it's true, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen says the rules were better there in 2009. The challenge of changing the rules in relation to 2009 is that we need to find some money for it, and then there is the problem that we want to accommodate some who commute to Poland or a number of other countries, i.e. a large number of foreign commuters, whom I, as tax minister, have little difficulty defending that we need to spend lots of tax dollars to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150336	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150337	I would like to help the tax minister, and that is just to set a limit of 800 km, that is to say a ceiling, because we do so in many other contexts, and then you could solve it with that foreign scam that the minister is talking about if it exists at all because it is essential, also in relation to the bill, that we start to look at how many it is really about and, if so, what it costs. I understand that the Minister does not have much money, and that is possible, but the money has been taken once, so they have to be there somewhere in the system unless someone has paid it out to someone who should not have it. When the North Jutland air commuters tell us this isn't good enough, it's also about trust. They feel badly treated by the system and need to spend a lot of money on court cases and have to pay afterwards. Yesterday, you could change a typo with 3 years of retroactive effect, but although there is a solution, I understand that the Minister will not even help those who travel by air with retroactive effect, even if you say you want to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150439	I would like to help the air commuters, but in the context of the solution that I have found, which is a solution where no one gets worse, but where only someone gets better off, the clear announcement has just been made. Bjarne Laustsen in TV 2/Nord in the feature I saw that the solution was not good enough. And then, as Minister, I have to take note of it and then I have to listen to what is being said. That then leads to that part of the bill being withdrawn, and then we have to work on what we can do. That's the way it is, and I have no problem with that. I am sorry that the solution I have come up with is not good enough, but then we must work to find someone else, and I hope that we can do so together. One should just be aware that if there was such a solution that was just too easy as with the previous question I think that some of my former colleagues, among other things. from the Social Democratic Party, had chosen to seize the solutions. Therefore, it is not quite as straightforward as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen expresses himself. It is not the will of me that is lacking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150540	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150541	Thank you for your answer. Yesterday I explained that one of the reasons why there was no more focus on it was to wait for the legal proceedings that had been brought in the system, and there we, as legislators, have this division of labour with arm's lengths to the courts. Now we have figured out that SKAT would do it that way, even if you didn't know the consequences. That's why it's fair enough. We discussed this here in 2015, where the Minister has promised me a solution, and we discussed it again here at the beginning of January, and then you come with a half chorus. So it's a round, as I said, and we need to find a solution. As things stand now, the North Jutland air commuters do not have the same conditions as the rest of the workers in the country, because they have a bourgeois government deteriorated because they would try to help the Bornholmers, but it has gone into the mud, and that is why we must find a solution so that these people can continue to commute. We like mobility, and we are also pleased that they bring their wages home to taxation in Jutland. I certainly hope the Minister is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150645	I am so glad about that. But Mr. Bjarne Laustsen must decide. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen criticises the solution I have chosen and says that we cannot use it for anything. Then I'll take it back and say that we'll have to work on something else. But then it must also be criticised. Maybe I don't think that's entirely fair. If there is a majority in the Folketing that is willing to find funding, we can also find a solution, and we will have to work on that together. In the meantime, I would like to say in the Parliamentary Chamber today that I understand that there are some air commuters who are concerned about the treatment they have received from the tax administration years ago, and I certainly do not hope that there are any citizens, whether it is air commuters or other commuters who are experiencing the same treatment as they have been given, because it is not a fair treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150730	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, and thank you to the tax minister. President. - Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène (H-0319/94) 16 on the agenda as previously announced has been deleted, we go to Question No 16 on the agenda. 17. It is for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and it is submitted by Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150744	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's position that, according to Coop, the new animal welfare mark will not lift animal welfare when it comes to meat labelled with one star, which is the lower level?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150757	Thank you, President, and also thank you to the questioner for that question. The State Animal Welfare Label, which will be launched at the end of May, aims to improve animal welfare for as many pigs as possible by changing consumer shopping habits. The animal welfare mark creates transparency so that consumers can clearly see which products meet the requirements for better animal welfare. The animal welfare mark is available in three levels, with increasing animal welfare requirements, and the label makes requirements which in all cases are clearly above the regulatory requirement. The basic requirements of the animal welfare mark are the requirement for the loose operation of the sow in the barn of danger and in the running and control department, the requirement for whole tails, more space and the allocation of straw as root and employment material. It is therefore not true that the level of one heart will not increase animal welfare. The state animal welfare mark offers one, two and three hearts so that consumer preference for better animal welfare can be met at several levels. The higher the demands, the more expensive the meat will be, and the less the sale of animal welfare pigs will be. As a result, fewer pigs benefit from better animal welfare. The cost of producing pork with one heart is lower than for two and three hearts. This means that more consumers will be ready to buy products with one heart, and that ultimately means that more pigs will get better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150929	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405150929-2	Thank you for your answer. When I have asked the question, it is on the basis of a news release where Coop's director, Signe Frese, was on and where I stumbled a little over the fact that Coop didn't want to be involved in using the animal welfare mark. We ourselves are part of that agreement in the Danish People's Party and have actually seen this as a boost, you might say, to the meat that most consumers buy, namely the cheap meat. And what is important to me when it comes to this small question is that we are, as it were, being told to consumers that there is actually going to be a boost. When we talk about one heart in relation to the animal welfare mark, I would like to know if the Minister could clarify both in terms of tailing and more straw and then with the rushing lakes what improvements there are, because I think it is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151038	Thank you, President, and thank you for that follow-up question. Well, it is clear that a requirement for the loosening of the sow in the barn of danger and in the running and control department is something that gives the sow more animal welfare. There is no doubt about that. Having root material, the allocation of straw, is something that does something about the pig's way of life in relation to both the fact that it is curious, the fact that it messes, the fact that it has something to deal with. So it is clear that this means that there is a better living condition for this pig.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151112	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151113	Thank you. Then I just have one question about tailing. There are many who say that tailing is already prohibited, but I also think it would be nice to know how many people are actually still doing tailing because the pigs are running around biting each other. You can't have one heart if the pigs haven't wrinkled on their tails. That's how I think we put it at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151144	Thank you for the question. In relation to the demand for whole tails, it is true, as the author also says, that tailing is allowed to prevent tail bites if an appropriate measure has been taken in advance to avoid tail bites. And over 95%. Of the pigs in Denmark and in most other EU countries, the tail is hilly. The animal welfare mark requires whole tails, i.e. neither tailing nor tail bite, and that is therefore a great improvement for the pigs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151216	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151218	My last question about this is whether the Minister can elaborate on the rules on transport time, which I also think has something to do with animal welfare, because this is about the transport of pigs for slaughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151235	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the author. We have clear rules for the transport of animals to which all producers must comply. Then we will have an active effort in the European Union to see if we can get more countries to change the transport regulation, because that is what is required for more countries to get on this galley. However, it has to be said that Denmark has really shown the way in relation to transport and animal welfare, and it is clear that we have a desire to have it lifted throughout the European Union, because this makes enormous sense, because it does not only lift animal welfare for Danish-produced pigs, but also, to a large extent, for pigs throughout the continent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151313	Thank you. That was the end of Question 17. The next question has also been put to the Minister for the Environment and Food, and this has been asked by Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151324	Thank you. The question is: How does the Minister react to the statements by Coop's CSR Director, Signe Frese, to TV 2 News on 27 March 2017 regarding the level of the new animal welfare mark, which is too low to include Coop, why Coop doesn't want meat with the animal welfare mark in their shops?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151347	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the author for this question, which I shall reply briefly in view of the relation of the question to my answer to Question No 1, which has just been given. S 999. As I have just mentioned, all three levels in the state animal welfare mark are above the level of legislation. Unlike the rest of the food chain, including the rest of the retail trade, Coop has chosen not to participate in the cooperation on the state animal welfare mark but has instead established its own brand. In addition, I can only note that, of course, Coop itself decides which goods and brands they want to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151421	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151422	Of course Coop can decide for himself. Of course. After all, we live in a free country and the free market also prevails. What bothered me a little when I saw the broadcast was that in my optics we actually increase animal welfare. If there is then a big chain like Coop, which, like, goes out and thinks that this is some kind of misdirection of consumers, then it makes me a little bit sad, because I do not think it is just misleading that we have created this state-controlled animal welfare label. It can then be said that not all meat in Coop has a label; not all meat is organic. And we know that much of the cheap meat that the majority of consumers buy has no brand at all. That's also why we're trying to address it in relation to this state-controlled animal welfare label. I have heard that much of the meat you sell cheaply in Coop does not come from Denmark. I do not know whether the Minister can confirm that, and the Minister can answer that question. It is not certain that you know it, but will you look into it, if not else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151533	Thank you, President, and also thank you for the follow-up question. Well, I'd like to get a statement from Coop if Coop wants to hand someone over where their meat comes from. At the same time, at the request of the questioner, I can ask Coop to explain whether all the meat that Coop sells in his shops meets the standard of one heart, in relation to what the questioner started his question with, i.e. whether Coop can be in relation to goods that have too low a level, and therefore why Coop does not want meat with the animal welfare mark in their shops. So I would like to ask you two questions on behalf of the author of the question at Coop's.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151617	Thank you. I would very much appreciate that, especially because I think this is some kind of consumer information. In other words, we did not want to mislead consumers who made this agreement on the animal welfare mark. On the contrary, in fact, what can be said here is a twofold desire: on the one hand, to guide consumers and, on the other hand, to improve animal welfare for most animals. It's not the organic pigs running around in the field because they're okay. It's not who we're worried about. You could say it's the 90 percent. other pigs, or how much percentage it is, which is really just lying and maybe is worst. These are the ones we would like to raise the standard for. I think that is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151704	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. Yes, I do believe that this is consumer guidance. It is clear that an information campaign is needed. And then it is my opinion that what is happening in Danish pig production, animal welfare, is of high standard. When I'm on export promotion, I see many people looking with admiration at Denmark. But it is clear that we have a desire to lift animal welfare even more. And since consumers have sent a signal that they want to, they now have a very concrete opportunity with the shopping cart, and I am, of course, very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151745-2	Then I have a perhaps a bit of a leading question, but nevertheless I cannot help asking it: does the Minister think that these marks are misleading, and does the Minister think that it is perhaps a bad question • that it actually increases animal welfare for pigs, also in the light of ordinary legislation? I mean, we have ordinary legislation that everyone has to comply with, but does it just have to have one heart increased welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151821	Thank you, President, and thank you for that follow-up question. Yes, I certainly believe that one heart raises animal welfare. I certainly believe that this setup is indicative for consumers and not misleading. We have a desire to develop more types within the labelling system, i.e. not only for pig meat, but also for example. poultry and other types. It is also something that has been agreed in the contract circle, and that is, of course, something that we are working on. I've invited the Animal Protection to get into this work, because it annoys me that they're not in it. I hope that they will come back positively with an answer to that. We already have DOSO in the work, but I also think that the protection of animals is part of that work. And, of course, I hope they will accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151901	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and Food, thank you to the author. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon That concludes 18. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19, which is addressed to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and is by Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151914	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151922	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister comment on the problems faced by staff in day-care institutions if an unvaccined child appears and poses an infectious risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405151934	Thank you for the question. I have been very, very excited to reply to that, because first of all I would like to make it clear that parents should let their children vaccinate. Of course, it is both about protecting the individual child from becoming ill, but it is equally about the concern for other children who are at risk of being infected. It can, for example, be done. be very young children who have not received the vaccine yet, but they may also be children who are seriously ill and therefore cannot tolerate being vaccinated. It is therefore essential that parents be aware of their responsibilities and that they also become aware that the issue of vaccination is far from being a matter which concerns only themselves and their children, but which is at least as much a matter of concern to the other children. And that part of the question may have been a little overlooked. I can easily understand if the teaching staff in the day-care institutions or in day-care can be worried or experience a dilemma if they, for example, are faced with a dilemma. know that a child has not been vaccinated precisely because the child then poses an infectious risk to the other children in the day-to-day supply. But it is also important to make it clear that it is never the responsibility of the teaching staff that a child has not been vaccinated. It is only the parents'responsibility to have the child vaccinated so that the child does not become ill and can infect other children. And in a situation where a child in a day offer is seriously ill or has a chronic disease that makes the child particularly vulnerable to diseases, including measles, well then the day offer has the opportunity to seek guidance from the municipal health service. The health service can then advise the day-to-day offer on how to handle the situation in the best possible way and how to inform parents if necessary. Fortunately, I would say in this major debate on vaccinations there has actually been an increase in the number of children vaccinated against, for example. measles, so it goes the right way. There is only cause for concern if we begin to see a fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152133	Thank you. Does the Minister think there may be a need for us to take steps to help the staff in the day institutions, possibly with how to deal with the situation, or with the provision of information to parents there? It could be the healthcare provider who came out, it could be a doctor who came out. In other words, does the Minister think that this is necessary, or has the debate perhaps been somewhat upset?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152158	Well, I actually think there is a good reason to look at how to inform and guide parents that they themselves take responsibility and have their children vaccinated. And I also have the impression that it is the result of an information campaign that we are now seeing an increase. There will be among other things. sent out pushers, and it may be some of the things that make parents say: Hey, we haven't just had our child vaccinated, we should do that. I also think it is important to look at the reasons why parents do not allow their children to vaccinate. It may well be children where parents may be socially at risk or live a little chaotic life and just don't get it done. And then there are those to whom I really have strong, strong feelings for scolding, and it is they who are such a bit speckled parents who make a very conscious choice not to want to vaccinate their children. When I experience it, I almost get physically red buds all over the place, because I just think it is so irresponsible that as parents they know about the risk that they put not only their own children in, but also other children, and yet choose not to let their children vaccinate. I mean, I can't be in myself when we're dealing with that kind of parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152316	It's also mostly the Spelt parents and the facebook culture that the question is really about. Then there is all this information and information and campaigns, and I have been informed that international research actually shows that the information campaigns that you might think worked do not actually work, so that as a mother you are told that if you do not have your child vaccinated, you may actually be guilty of another child dying of it, etc. Apparently, it just bounces off on those Spelt parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152349	Without wishing to make myself an expert on this, I have the impression from newspaper reading that there are such completely silly myths running, among other things. on the relationship of the vaccination programme with autism. Now I am not the Minister for Health, so I say alone that there has been a debate on this, and I do not know much about it either. I think the crux of this must be that parents let their children vaccinate. And what I have also noted is that there has been a slight increase in the number of a little later vaccinations, which I take as an expression of the fact that there are parents who have simply forgotten it and are reminded of it: Hey, get your child vaccinated. Then they will get it done, and I really think it would be the very best way if we could guide positively towards parents taking responsibility and allowing their children to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152442	We therefore agree that dialogue and guidance and guidance must be the way forward. However, could we get to where it will be, as the Liberal Alliance has proposed, in other words where children from day care institutions are simply forcibly excluded because parents refuse to correct the dialogue that exists? And what are the consequences for those children if they are not allowed to go to day care? I would like to hear the Minister's position on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152506	After all, there are at least a number of tools that you can use before you end up with a forced exclusion. I think it is worth looking at which tools are available and then also be aware that there may be many different things at stake for those we call the spelt segment, which therefore takes a very conscious, active choice not to want to let their children vaccinate. Maybe we should go a little harder on that. However, for those who are socially at risk and who have not had it done, I do not necessarily believe that exclusion from a day offer would be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152544	Thank you. And that is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20, which is also addressed to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs by Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152555	Thank you. Will the Minister deal with Nordfyn's municipality's case-law and the removal of a foster child without the child being consulted, as the child's reform suggests?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152606	This is another matter which has taken me seriously, but since it is a single matter, I am not going to comment on it, but I am going to deal with the general issue, and that is what I have done so far. There should be no doubt that the decision to remove a child from a foster family with which he grew up is very intrusive. The child's reform made it clear that the child and its needs must always be at the centre. That is why, as a starting point, children's views must also be taken into account before decisions are taken that can turn their lives upside down. Because there is much more chance of choosing right and sustainable solutions if we also get the child involved. Of course, the inclusion of the child must always be with an appropriate weight and in accordance with the child's age, maturity and ability to function. For example, there may be cases where the child is so small that it does not make sense to hold a proper child conversation, but the municipality must always take into account the child's perspective in the decisions taken on the child, and it must also try to get the child's opinion on the decision in other ways. This can be done by observation, for example, and can be done by talking to people in the network with whom the child is familiar. This will enable us to obtain a better basis. What matters to me is that the municipalities are based on the needs of the individual child when they decide what support the child should have and whether the child should be returned to the family. That is the aim of the child's reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152739	It is precisely in relation to the fact that the child must be heard in the centre and the child must be heard to the extent that it is possible that it lags. We hear that over and over again. The child's reform is from 2011, but does the minister think that the municipalities have succeeded in this? Does the Minister think that they have properly implemented the child's reform? It has now been quite a few years since it came.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152811	Overall, I think that the municipalities have succeeded in implementing the child's reform. But I also believe that this has been a major task for the municipalities, and I also believe that you can improve and that you can constantly look inside and see whether the procedures and the way to work in the municipalities are completely escaping with the child's reform. It is simply to see if you can get even closer and be even better in terms of implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152840-2	But when there are municipalities where cases pop up repeatedly and this has nothing to do with the municipality we are starting from here, but there are other municipalities where you repeatedly see that there are bad cases, and where it really lags, couldn't the minister think again about doing this forced task force? I know I've asked you about this before, I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405152901-2	If you really need the municipalities to change their practice, that is to say change the way they do their work in relation to the decisions that are made about a foster child, then I think it is important that it is in a good and positive way where the municipality is in dialogue and thus in cooperation with the task force and looking at procedures and changes. We can see that among other things. Middelfart has benefited from a task force and has helped to raise the quality of the case. And that's what's important to me. I can be concerned that you will get the same thing if you force a task force into a municipality if you then get the same degree of co-ownership to raise the quality of the case. In the end, it is important for me to ensure better processing because that is what will be for the child's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153000-2	We can agree on that, but now it's just that some people keep limping. At some point you have to draw a line in the sand. I also think that the Minister will need that, and I know that the former Minister for Social Affairs, Karen Hækkerup, has sent out a task force at the time as minister. So it is an opportunity for the Minister if you think it continues to lag behind. At some point, you might say, the good dialogue has stopped, and then you have to resort to other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153034	Well, I've also sent shepherd letters to the municipalities. In general terms, I think I stand for a line in which I insist that the decisions taken should be for the good of the citizen. For example, when we have had a Jammerbugt case, I have insisted that, in addition to making a correct decision and following the law, we should also have a good dialogue with the citizen along the way. I actually expect that as a minister. So I actually think I've been out to make it clear that the law is there to be observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153111	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and thank you to the author. That concludes Question 20. We'll continue to number one. 21, addressed to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153122	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153123	Thank you for that, President. What initiatives will the Minister take to prevent a number of museums from closing down as a result of the announcement by the Labour Market Holiday Fund that it will not or can extend loans in the museums?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153141	Thank you. After all, the outcome of this case, which I think has surprised the vast majority, is that in 2014 the Social Democratic led government, together with the Radical Left, the SF, the Left and the Conservatives, decided to change the conditions of the Labour Market Holiday Fund. I have also understood from the Social Democrats that there was no intention at the time that this should happen in this way, and what is going to happen now is that the Minister for Employment has initially called a meeting with the parties behind the decision in 2014 and, as far as I am aware, that meeting will take place on Friday, that is to say on 7 April. That is what runs under the auspices of the Minister for Employment. Of course, I follow it very closely because it is one of them. is about a number of museums, and I have asked Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen to give an account of what this really means if it is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153242	Thank you for that answer. I have to say straight away that we can play a game about who is to blame for this, but I just don't think anyone had foreseen that this could be the consequence, and what worries me is the consequences of the decision taken. For the consequences appear to be that a number of museums, which are an essential part of the experience economy, risk turning the key, despite the fact that they have been given the prospect that the loans that have been granted they have only had for a 25-year period, interest-free and repayment-free, and they have been given the prospect that they could be extended. That is why I am concerned about museums, and that is why I would like the Minister to take some initiatives. I understand, then, that a roadmap has been drawn up to describe what might go wrong. I am, of course, pleased that we are going to act on this basis, because it is a cry of distress from our entire cultural sector, which is under severe pressure already in relation to the 2% savings. So I just need to be sure that the Minister sleeps with his boots on and is willing to go far in this matter in order to mitigate the effects that appear to arise as a result of the fact that the Labour Market Holiday Fund has announced a different strategy than they have done in the past. So that's just the promise I need from the minister, that the minister sleeps with his boots on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153416	It's not that pleasant to sleep with your boots on. I just want to say that I think we share both the surprise and the concern, which is why I am confident that we need to find a solution. Sometimes we as legislators are going to do something where it turns out it has consequences that might not have just been foreseen, and then there is nothing else to do but then we have to go back and see how we solve this problem. But before I can say what I will have to do in concrete terms, we need to have a description of what this is about, and I must also respect that part of it is in another ministry, namely the Ministry of Employment. But I am confident that at the meeting held on 7 April we will find out what we might be able to do to avert unspoiled consequences, if that is the case. At least I need to get a more detailed description of what the consequences of this are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153522	One of the things I am thinking of is to get the minister as quickly as the government had to be clear about acting in this area, to get something reported out to the institutions that I had just said with the beard in the mailbox. Because that's the situation they're in. It is, of course, an unawaited reaction to something that has been going on for so many years, and now they stand so suddenly and do not have the opportunity to drive it forward. So when can the Minister expect to report something to the institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153555	Hastværk is also a truck, which is why you shouldn't report anything until you have an overview of what the problem is and how we might be able to remedy it. So I have to take the time it takes and find out what it is about and what you might be able to do. I also think that the fact that a meeting has already been convened with many parties, so soon after this has been achieved, is a signal that this is actually something that the government is giving very high priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153621-2	Of course, I would just like to agree that hurry may prove to be a load, but I really hope that the Minister will show the same, we must say commitment and seriousness in resolving the matter that the Minister puts in the answers here. I think that is fair to those who are trying to make our cultural life work together. So I'll follow the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153648	So we can both do that, if not with the same boots in the same bed, then from the sideline where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153655	That concludes Question 21. We proceed to Question 22, which is also addressed to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153706	I read out: How will the Minister help to ensure tourist experiences in our country, if a number of museums in the summerland have to close, as a result of the fact that the Labour Market Holiday Fund cancels loans in these?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153720	To that I can only say that I certainly do not hope that museums will close. For museums is one of the things that attracts our tourists. We have really nice and good museums all around the country, and there are also new ones, so it is also crucial that we have attractions like our museums to attract tourists. So I would say for the time being that the ambition is to ensure that we do not run the risk of getting into a situation which means that some of what we think is valuable in our country will have to close down. However, as I also mentioned in the answer to the previous question, we must first have an overview of the extent of the problem and how we might be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153802	Now I think we're both talking about that it's very much museums that are underneath this. I have to point out to the Minister that when I have written experience opportunities, it is because I know that there is a wide range of different experiences that have benefited from the support of the Labour Market Holiday Fund, fully in line with the purpose of the Labour Market Holiday Fund. I am here with a request from a well-known place of experience, which is at risk of having loans for 68 million. kr., which falls due here and now, if you run this procedure through, and they can't meet that, despite the fact that it's a popular experience spot that the Oceanarium in Hirtshals is. I don't have the imagination to imagine that you can suddenly take 68 million. kr. up the pocket and continue its operation unchanged. This is why it is vital that you not only focus on the museums it is very tight enough but that it applies to the entire experience economy. Then I would like to point out that in connection with my grave in this, it has been quite counterproductive signals that have been sent, among other things. from the Holiday Fund, which has given the impression that we could expect an extension and that we would be able to continue working as we have known so far, and now they are standing and pulling the curtain away under the institutions. So I also hope that security will be created under the administration that the Labour Market Holiday Fund is to carry out in relation to the tasks it has to perform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405153945-2	I am well aware that it is a wide range of different institutions, i.e. not only museums, but it can also be holiday centres and experience institutions etc. So it is a whole series of activities that have been co-financed from the Labour Market Holiday Fund, and that is, of course, all we need to look at. What we have to hope for is that we will, like us, have a practice of how it is to be interpreted and what it is then for a practice that will be pursued in the future. So I think we have a common interest in resolving this issue. It is just too early for me now to say how exactly it should be done, but it is clear that we must, of course, do everything we can to ensure that tourists also want to go to all parts of Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154031	I am, of course, pleased with the Minister's reply that this piece will also be vigilant and timely, because it will be a disaster for coastal tourism, but also in relation to a large number of other experiences around the country, where the Labour Market Holiday Fund has been fully in place, in accordance with its purpose, to create better opportunities for holiday keeping and opportunities for an experienced leisure time for a great many people, to suddenly pull the blanket away under some of them. So I am satisfied with the Minister's preliminary reply and reserve the right to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154108	The questioner must be so warmly welcomed at all times. I am happy to come and then I hope that we can find a good solution to the problem that has arisen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154119	Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène Twenty-two closed. Thank you to the Minister for Culture and thank you to the author. As has already been announced, Question No 1 is: Twenty-three withdrawn and thus withdrawn from the agenda. We shall therefore continue to put questions to the Council. 24, addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154139	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154140	Thank you very much, President. What is the Minister's view that the University of Copenhagen Housing Fund has illegally rented housing to international students and researchers, which has resulted in more expensive rents, and will the Minister initiate initiatives to prevent similar cases from repeating themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154158	Thank you for the question. I have read the article on which the question is based. The University of Copenhagen Housing Fund seems to have failed to comply with housing legislation and illegally charged certain extra fees. This has been acknowledged by the Fund and will repay the sums unlawfully collected. There is not much to add. Housing legislation must be complied with. All parties to the case agree on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154232	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, one cannot help wondering whether the landlords who are now here have seen a particular advantage in renting out to some tenants who do not know Danish legislation, because they are international students and researchers who are here for a very short time, and I can see here in the daily press that it is about 15 million. kr., which you have to pay back together. It's quite an amount anyway, considering that it's pure rent we're talking about. Does the Minister not consider that there is a problem in the fact that as a Danish landlord you take advantage of the fact that foreign tenants who are here as students or researchers are not so much familiar with Danish rental legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154319	Yeah, I mean that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154325	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154329	That concludes Question 24. We proceed to Question 25, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154338	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154338-2	How does the Minister think it is related to the government's intention to introduce an experimental system with a curfew for special transports of more than 50 metres on weekdays during the period at 2 p.m. Six to nine and eight o'clock. 15-18 on motorway lines E45 from Hadsten to Kolding and E20 from Kolding to Odense, but do not plan to establish the necessary parking spaces and resting places for the long journeys?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154402	Thank you for the question. It is true that the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed on per. 1 July 2017 to initiate an experimental system with curfew for special transports of 50 m or more in length. The scheme applies on the E45 motorway sections from Hadsten to Kolding V, E20 from Kolding V to Road Cross Odense and the E20 section from Skærup to Fredericia in the Triangle area. Lockdown time is introduced on weekdays during the period kl. Six to nine and eight o'clock. 15-18, which is also the usual extension of curfews. I am aware of the problem of creating space in the rest places for the long special journeys. Transport from Sweden and Germany therefore lacks parking facilities before they are reached. This issue is addressed by applying and adapting the abandoned resting area Kværkeby N on Central Zealand and including unused areas at Frøslev Island in South Jutland. In both these rest areas there will be room for three long special transports and their accompanying vehicles to last there at the same time. The areas will be reserved exclusively for long special journeys and will not conflict with other road users. The Road Directorate has started preparing this work and expects that the conversion of the two mentioned rest places to long special transports will be possible in autumn 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154537	It's new here. Nevertheless, if you ask, for example. DTL, is their assessment, of course, that this legislation, and especially in relation to the piece in Jutland, could mean that as a driver, because of the rest-time regulations, you will be able to place such a special transport in the emergency lane of a motorway, for example. It has to be said that if the intention is to reduce congestion, which is something that I also think is quite sensible and timely care by the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, then it does not help if you have modular construction or wind turbine wings or other special transports standing in an emergency path. After all, it gives the same hardship as it does if you overtake special transports. There are, of course, the same problems with this, compared to people reducing speed if you have special transports in the emergency tracks. Does the Minister not see a risk of simply weakening the industries which produce these things? In Løgstør there is a large manufacturer of modular construction, which must transport their modules further out into the country. Aalborg produces wind turbine parts etc. Is it not a risk that some of these companies will simply lose competitive power because their transports cannot be transported as easily and as smoothly as before?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154655-2	It is not legal to park trucks in the emergency lane or to park there at all. They're for emergency parks, you might say. That is also why we are setting up these two parking facilities, which are not there today, but which we are setting up as a result of the adoption of these curfews. So the relevance of Mr. Kaare Dybvad's second question, which seems to have been formulated before Mr. Kaare Dybvad heard that we are setting up these two rest places.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154727-2	The latter is right, but nevertheless neither Frøslev nor Kværkeby is north of Hadsten, it is actually south of, as far as my geography tells me. So if, for example, it's a company in North Jutland that transports things southwards, they're hit by exactly the same problem, no matter if they can park in Frøslev when they're through this stretch. It doesn't save a North Jutland company from Løgstør or Aalborg that you can park in South Jutland or in Central Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154800	The message I have received from the Road Directorate is that it is the two rest places that are needed, and no more than that, and I refer to that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154811	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154816	Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène Twenty-five closed. Thank you to the questioner. We shall proceed to Question 26, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154824	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154825	Does the Minister agree that when Eastern European drivers driving for IKEA in Denmark and Sweden work for approx. 3,500 kr. in salary per month, while a Danish export driver receives approx. 16,000 kroner. is social dumping and is the direct reason why the Danish road haulage industry is threatened on its livelihood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405154845	Thank you for the question of Eastern European labour force in Denmark. Let me start by saying that when it comes to assessing the concrete examples of wage levels mentioned by the questioner, I think that this is outside the scope of an oral paragraph 20 question, as it is not possible for me to validate the concrete figures in the short time that goes on from the question to the answer here in the Chamber. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... In this context, I But if the questioner asks me a question via the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing, I would very much like to look into it. However, I would like to make it clear that it must be beyond any doubt that if you drive freight transport in Denmark, you have to comply with the rules that apply in Denmark. This applies whether the driver is Danish, Polish, German or Filipino. At the same time, I understand the question of cabotage. I think it is important that we distinguish between legal and illegal cabotage. Let me refer here to two of my predecessors in the ministerial post, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen and Mr. Magnus Heunicke; more specifically, I would like to refer to a reply to the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee from 2015, where Mr. Magnus Heunicke agrees with the previous Transport Minister Henrik Dam Kristensen's 2011 statement, which I now quote: "Here I would like to stress strongly that not all driving with foreign trucks in Denmark is illegal, and it is not any remuneration that lies under the Danish agreement, which is equal to social dumping. Of course, I think that is also important to bear in mind. • The conditions in the road transport sector are a subject that is being discussed throughout Europe. This is because it is an area which is very much regulated at EU level, and I think that is important for us to keep in mind when discussing it. As you know, the European Commission will shortly be presenting its proposals for a review of the rules in the field of road transport. The Government has been and remains active in the work of influencing the Commission prior to the submission of the proposals. In January I signed a joint declaration in Paris for a road transport alliance with eight other countries. The message from this is clear: we must find common European solutions to the common European challenges facing the road transport sector. This applies, among other things, to: for cabotage, where the government is working on clearer and simpler rules. The government wants rules which are easier to enforce and which can limit the scope of illegal cabotage in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155110-2	Thank you. But it is fair to say that the Minister will not agree to give a detailed answer without validating the information in my question. But let us just say that if there is a significant difference in wage levels, without mentioning either one or the other, and that the low wages are given to drivers, of whom we must say they have a fairly high incidence, what should we say, violations of all the regulations in the transport sector, then that is when I assume the Minister will agree with me on social dumping. I am surprised that the Minister spends so much time explaining why he will not answer the question and refers to previous questions and answers rather than taking a clear and active position and joining the fight against social dumping. For while the Minister and the undersigned are standing here fucking, it is the case that Danish drivers are being outperformed on legal terms, but also on illegal terms. And that is where I am missing a little more power from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155216	First of all, let me say that there is very, very low unemployment among Danish drivers and that the transport industry is experiencing a shortage of Danish drivers when they have to fill jobs. There are courses you can take, and if you complete that driver course, you are guaranteed jobs as a Danish driver. So it is not really true that Danish drivers are being out-dated at the moment. On the contrary, there is a shortage of Danish drivers. Secondly, I would like to say that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Claus Kvist Hansen says that if you break rules and gain a competitive advantage, it is unfair competition, and if the rules you break are some who have to deal with social issues, then it is also social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155307	Thank you, Minister. With regard to the question of the Danish road haulage industry and the number of drivers, well, listen once again: if the Minister or myself were young and had a future ahead of him and were to choose what training we should have, would we choose a profession which is exposed to such massive competition from outside and how changing transport ministers over the last countless years have shown a rather weak will to go in and combat illegal social dumping? No. I certainly do not think that young people can be blamed for not feeling drawn to the truck industry, because the ministers do not seem to be fully concerned about the Danish jobs. That's the first thing. The other is about breaking the rules. Again: This issue has been up and running for many years. And then again, I wonder why changing ministers have not, at a much earlier stage, been able to regulate this area. Isn't it a little late to be out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155402	There has been an ongoing work by me, by my predecessor, Hans Christian Schmidt, by his predecessor, Magnus Heunicke etc. etc. mediated into the EU system to influence the processes that are there. So I totally disagree with Mr. Knox. Claus Kvist Hansen when he says nothing has been done. Many things have been done. I might understand if you accuse a Liberal Alliance minister of the things that Liberal Alliance members of parliament have said for not having made enough of this. I understand if you have that suspicion. But I will continue the work that has been done. What I can't understand at all is how sir. Claus Kvist Hansen can believe that the Socialist predecessors I have had have done nothing either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155454	Well, I'm not accusing anyone of anything, and I'm not implying much. I just note that at least no concrete results have been achieved. The minister claims that a lot of work has been done. Yes, yes, but can the Minister give us five examples of how the road haulage industry has been helped in the last few years in this area? I'd like to know. When it comes to the background to why not so much has happened, it can be said that one thing that the changing transport ministers have at least had in common is their ardent commitment to strengthened EU cooperation. Perhaps that would explain why you have not been able to get through within the EU for better conditions for Danish drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155539	I should like to mention that funds have been set aside for additional controls. The Danish People's Party has also been involved in allocating the funds, most recently in the police settlement. So, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen then be aware that it has certainly been done. I would say, then, about the enthusiastic enthusiasts of people in relation to the European Union, that, in this area, there is, in general, a broad consensus in the Folketing that the normal principles of the internal market, where there is free movement of transport and goods and trade and labour across borders, should be waived, and that borders should be established through cabotage rules. So the fact that people are in favour of the European Union does not seem to stop them from thinking that this is a special case that should not apply to normal EU principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155630	That concludes Question 26. Thank you to the questioner. We continue with question 27, addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing by Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155642	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155643	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister believe that the long waiting lists in the general housing sector, which mean that after several decades on the waiting list still do not have the prospect of their dream home, give rise to the need to clean up special rules in this area and build more general housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155704	Thank you for the question. I think that the key thing about waiting lists for general housing is that they are transparent and that the people who sign up know what they can count on. Today, the municipality can point to some of the housing in the general housing sector, and there are internal waiting lists and rules for the exchange of apartments. On the one hand, of course, this may help to complicate the system of waiting lists and make it unclear when you can get a home. On the other hand, the rules also serve a purpose, in particular as regards municipal authorising law. However, I am open to a political discussion of the rules and to see if they need to be adjusted. I do not wish to deny that there are too many special rules that should be cleaned up. Having said that, I do not believe that the solution to the long waiting lists for the most attractive general housing is to allow the general housing sector to grow. Rather, I think we should look at whether the provision of new housing in cities is hampered by inappropriate regulation of the possibility of building new housing, regardless of ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155811	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Minister thinks it is a long time to have to stand on a waiting list for 10 years and still not have been offered a non-profit housing. I very much disagree with the Minister that it is not non-profit housing that needs to be built more of. We know, for example, that... in the big cities, prices are rising wildly on housing. You're actually afraid of a home bubble. And that is why I believe that if people are to live with general income, it is not the strategy that the Minister has put in place, that is to say that it must be owner-occupied housing that needs to be built. I believe that more non-profit housing needs to be built. So will the Minister try to help provide more cheap housing in the large cities where there is population pressure in relation to moving there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405155912	If you come as a new entrant to Copenhagen or to Aarhus and join a housing company and are written on a waiting list, it is that which greatly prevents you from entering a home quickly, the fact that others who are inside the housing organisation already have priority to get a new accommodation there, which you cannot then get yourself, plus that the residents who already have a dwelling have the right to exchange it with others who then come in and skip you on the waiting list, even if they are not on the waiting list at all. Such rules help to make waiting lists long. You can look at doing something about that. It is not my impression that in the past it has been socialist policy to do so. Then I would say that there are cities in the world where there is a great deal of access for people who want to live there, but where prices do not rise significantly anyway. It is because there is not such a tough regulation in relation to building new ones as there is in the Danish cities. If we want the housing supply to be able to keep up with the housing demand in the cities to which people move, we must make it easier to build new housing in those cities. And we have a challenge with that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160025	I now think quite clearly that the reason why there is pressure, for example. Aarhus and Copenhagen, is that there are not enough homes. On the other hand, I do not mean what the Minister thinks: that if you give the whole market a free hand, the prices of housing will fall. I can see that everything is going to explode in New York, in London and so many places where the market is free. And that is why I believe that this is the very wrong way to go by the Minister. If the Minister would like us to have a good composition of the population, including in large cities, so that it is not just rich-man ghettos, then I think we should build some more cheap housing. And we have to recognise that this is not what the market is marked by, and certainly not in Copenhagen and Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160117	The housing market in New York and London is heavily regulated in a way similar to that in Danish cities. On the other hand, if you look at the city of Houston in Texas, you will see that the regulation there is much, much less. It is a city which, due to business development, attracts a great many people from all over the United States to live there, and yet the city does not experience steeply rising prices • because there is an opportunity to convert professions into housing, because there is an opportunity to make three floors into seven floors etc. etc., in a way that there is absolutely no possibility of doing so in Danish cities. If we allow housing to be built when there is greater demand, then we will also see that in Denmark we do not have to have as rising housing prices as we currently see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160207	Well, we'd like to help see if we can do something so that more housing can be built, including housing for people with ordinary income. We would like to help the Minister with that. I don't know if we're just thinking the same thoughts, but we can let that come to a test. But I think the best thing is that more homes are coming because more people are moving to. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister have any proposals for action, that is, proposals for something that can be done to bring the waiting lists down? And how will that be realized?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160243	I am looking at this at the moment, i.e. whether there are opportunities to do something, and whether those opportunities might be able to address a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, because I cannot do it alone. However, I would like to say in general terms that the problem of accepting that housing prices are generally rising and rising, because it is difficult to build new ones in a city, and then to build a few homes where prices are artificially kept down compared to the rest of market developments, and in which a few lucky people are allowed to live because they have the right connections or have signed up at the right time, I do not think that this is an attractive way to do so when, instead, it is possible to ensure that it is generally easier to build new ones, so that we keep down the general housing prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160331	Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène Twenty-seven closed. We shall continue with Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 28, addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, by Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160342	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160343	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of a proposal that apartments that have been rented in excess of the 60 days of 1 year should be removed from the Airbnb's list, as there is a risk that apartments rented through Airbnb in those parts of the country where there is already a shortage of housing are used as de facto hotels, as mentioned at www.altinget.dk?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160415	Thank you for the question. Share economy can also be a major asset for society in the housing sector. It provides a better use of our resources for the benefit of both the borrower and the borrower. But it is clear that there is a need to distinguish between shared economy and real business. Our legislation does not contain precise rules on the requirements for short-term rental of full-year housing. It is assumed today that a rental of up to 42 days will comply with the law. Former housing ministers have indicated this, including social democratic ministers. I think it sounds like a reasonable level, because it corresponds to the 6 weeks when most people take holidays and can therefore be away from their homes. However, as I said, there are no precise rules in the legislation, and this uncertainty about the rules is a barrier and poses problems for both owners and tenants. I would therefore like us to have a legal limit on short-term rental in order to remove any doubts about the rules of citizens, businesses and authorities. It appears from the government base that the government will present a strategy for the shared economy during 2017. The issue of short-term housing rental is one of the key parts of the economy and will therefore naturally form part of the strategy. As a result, I am counting on inviting you to discuss the issue. In this context, it would also be natural to consider how to ensure compliance with the border. Thank you for the floor, but I should also like to reply on the subject of Amsterdam and the 60 days. I think it is quite fine if cities agree such things with Airbnb, and if Danish cities want to make similar agreements with Airbnb, I am certainly open to it and see no problem with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160601	I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that there must be regulation in the area of shared economy. I know that the Minister has just passed a bill on Uber and knows the consequences of it if there are no rules for that sort of thing. I think it's a good idea to have a shared economy, but there just has to be rules for it. And I have to say that in the horror scenarios you've seen around in some big cities, among others. London and New York, there are clear indications that entire residential areas have actually been bought up and will only be used for shared economy. Then you can lift a little bit more of the veil of what the Minister would like to do about this? Is it something similar to Uber, where you try to limit it and see that there are some things that have to be paid, i.e. that there are some things that have to be linked for example. The whole hotel business in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160714	What applies to the taxi agreement that has been made is that we must continue to ensure that hauliers and drivers pay the tax to be paid. We have certainly secured that with that agreement, and we could also have secured it in a different and more open and dynamic way, as the government proposed, but unfortunately there was no majority for that in the Folketing. I believe that the same principles should apply in order to rent through Airbnb, that is, if tax is to be paid on it, tax should be paid on it, and then we should have some systems that catch that tax being paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160752	These were some of the ideas that I also thought about, for example. limiting the rental of accommodation for holiday purposes, and an example of it could be a maximum of 4 weeks a year; it could be the payment of income tax on rentals in addition to what is in the rules of the day there are rules to rent your holiday home out for a certain amount of money • so we are sure that tax will be paid. I believe that one of the points that must also be addressed is not to abolish the possibility of compulsory residence, because we can see elsewhere that if the obligation of residence is abolished, there are entire residential areas which are bought up and which are only used for rental through Airbnb.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160844	I think, sir. Jan Johansen said something about the maximum. 4 weeks. I'd say that's too little. In other words, when it comes to shared economy, which we are talking about here, I think that 6 weeks must be one or a minimum limit, because in Denmark we have such an average of 6 weeks of holiday per year, and it is within a partial economic heading that you can rent your apartment out to others if you are away because you are on holiday. It is good sharing economy, and it is good use of resources, of apartments that would otherwise be empty because you are away on holiday. We should support and encourage this. With regard to a general rule, I really think that the municipalities should have something to say here. If a municipality has no problem with renting out for 8 weeks or 10 weeks, possibly in certain areas of the municipality, I also have no problem with a municipality having such rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405160935	I will conclude by concluding by saying that I can hear that we are going to discuss this with the Minister, and I am certainly looking forward to it. We have a slightly different view of how and how it should be. But it should of course be beneficial to all parties that there are rules for it so that we can control development and we get in the tax that we need and so that we do not have large areas where it is only rented out. I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161001	I think we should agree that it is not necessarily up to us here in the Folketing to manage it. If a municipality has a desire to do so in a certain way, then the municipal politicians are responsible for their own voters in the municipality, and then I don't think we should come here from the Folketing and say: No, you can't do that. So one or a minimum limit of e.g. Forty-two days, or perhaps a little more, I am open to, but in addition, I think that the municipalities should be allowed to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161033	Thank you both, sir. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. There are no more questions at Question Time today and that concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161046	The negotiations have been opened, and the first one we are giving the floor to is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democracy and North West Jutland, Thy, more specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161109	Thank you. That was quite an introduction. Thank you, President. This bill proposes to authorise the Minister of the Environment and Food to lay down rules for participation in a compulsory hygiene course for certain people handling pigs. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Minister for the Environment and Food may lay down rules on the form and content of the compulsory course. The proposal expires on the action plan against livestock MRSA and the food and agriculture package and has therefore been a while in the process. From my perspective, it is deeply questionable that so long has elapsed since the MRSA Action Plan was adopted until the course now appears to be a reality. The aim of the hygiene course is to strengthen efforts against livestock MRSA and, in short, to contribute to fewer people being infected with MRSA by improving hygiene in stables, thereby ensuring that MRSA is not transferred from the barn to the community. MRSA is a relationship which we take very seriously in the social democracy and which needs to be addressed. There is a need for ambitious measures that require close cooperation with the agricultural industry and the health sector, as well as ambitious research efforts that can provide the necessary knowledge about livestock MRSA. We also believe that focus on hygiene measures and the working environment is essential for MRSA efforts. That is why we are also in favour of imposing a requirement for the people handling pigs to carry out a hygiene course. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we are concerned that the course is based solely on e-learning. This does not escape with the recommendations of the expert group, which made it clear that e-learning alone should be complementary to, for example, class education. It is simply too lax from our point of view and we fully share the concerns which, among other things, we share. has been raised by the Veterinarian Association and by the NNF. At the same time, it is striking that the government is now fleeing from the part of the agricultural package which deals with the hygiene course. The agricultural package clearly states that the hygiene course must be carried out under the auspices of the AMU. That is not the case, and I hope that we can get a clear answer to the reason why the government has chosen to defy the food and agriculture package. Why does the government think e-learning is better than classroom education? We in the Social Democratic Party hope that in the committee work we can find common ground here in the Danish Parliament and thus ensure that a hygiene course is prepared which is more fugitive with the recommendations of the MRSA working group, the expert group. We need to take this issue seriously and listen to the group of experts we have set up ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161406	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161408	Thank you. This is a little in line with the rapporteur's last remark, in which he asked why the Minister believes that AMU courses are worse than e-learning. Perhaps you could turn it around, so I would just like to ask: does the Social Democratic Party believe that e-learning courses are worse than sitting on a school bench?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161432	Yes, we believe that, and we believe this, on the basis that the working group has proposed that e-learning should be a supplement, but also on the basis that the people involved in this training relationship, i.e. the NNFs and the 3Fs, are those who work in dealing with pigs, and that is primarily the 3Fs, because it takes place in the stables • that you get the best effect of the teaching when there is classroom instruction. So among other things... I do not feel in any doubt that classroom education would be better than e-learning, and perhaps the two can complement each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161516	When I ask, it is because in very many educational situations e-learning is actually used. I just want to know if it is the overall view of the Social Democrats that if you have taken a course via e-learning, you are less educated than if you have been in a classroom, because that is how I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161535	I think the Danish People's Party will hear a little what you would like to hear. So, what is being said is very, very clear, and it is that when employees, who are the ones who have to complete this compulsory course, say that you will have the greatest effect of also having classroom lessons, then listen to it and say that then you should design this course so that at least part of it can be classroom lessons. Therefore, I would like to find a solution with the Danish People's Party for the benefit of the people who run this risk of exposure in the stables, where you might have both e-learning and classroom lessons. That would be a great way to land the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161616	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Simon Kollerup. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161622	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur has just said, this is, of course, that we are trying to do some training so that we can improve hygiene and so that we can reduce the amount of livestock MRSA that people can passively pass on to the surrounding society so that we avoid or minimise the risk of infection. We have a plan of action on MRSA, and this is some of it. In my optics, it's fine that it's an e-learning course, I have to say. I think it's good. When I say that, it is because many of those who are dealing with pigs are in the countryside, and sometimes it is not so easy to get into an AMU course or an AMU place where you can then get class lessons. That's why I think this is actually good. This does not mean that you are less educated. I don't see it that way. In fact, I believe that e-learning can be a very good way to learn new things. This also means that if you do not work with pigs but think it might be relevant to take the course, then you have the opportunity to do so without necessarily having to show up in a classroom. And we in the Danish People's Party consider this to be quite excellent, even though it is also high-tech, if I may put it that way. So we support the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161757	Sir. Simon Kollerup signs with a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161802	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask whether it doesn't impress the Danish People's Party when the employees who are going through this course are going to stay regardless of where in the country they live and whether it is in the country or in the city, or where you are resident as an employee, want at least as part of this course to be classroom education, because they consider that this is the way they get the most effect out of the course, i.e. the effect that will ultimately mean that the risk of being infected as an employee is minimized in the Danish pig stalls? Does it not make any impression on the Danish People's Party, or is the Danish People's Party perhaps open to discussing in the committee work whether you could make a combination solution, integrating e-learning with some classroom teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161851	Well, I always think it's good to talk about things. Then I haven't promised too much, have I? Actually, I think it's quite fine if we look at what might be. But I have to admit that in relation to this hygiene course, I have a very difficult moment to see the problem of e-learning. All those who take agricultural training will, of course, get it into their agricultural training, so this is about the people who do not really have agricultural training but who come close to these pig farms. And there I just think that e-learning has shown its strengths I hate to use English terms, but now I couldn't get on a Danish team, because more people can take it because they don't depend on having to show up at a place of education. And in this connection, exactly with this, I have great respect that you can do that because it will allow a lot of people to take that course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405161959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162000	Thank you. I accept the part of the answer that was a commitment that it is good to talk. I think we should do this on this issue, because I think that a solution can be found that is more optimal for employees. Then I would actually like to seize what the rapporteur said about force, not what it means, but more about the fact that the rapporteur said that she hates using English terms. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that this e-learning course or e-learning course, if we are to stay on the Danish course, should only be offered in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162036	No, I don't see that it's just supposed to. Well, if you have an employee group that is Spaniards, or whatever, I think it would be nice to give those people the course too. There you can say that the strength of e-learning is that you can make a translation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162056	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. There is no more to look at a brief remark. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162110	This bill helps to minimise the MRSA threat in Danish society, and with the bill we ensure that people who work with pigs in everyday life undergo a mandatory hygiene course. MRSA is a bacterium that can survive for several months on doorknobs, mobile phones, gloves, etc., and it is therefore important that people who deal with pigs have a broad knowledge of things and how to take the correct precautions, thus helping to minimise the risk of spreading infection. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Folketing that we must do what we can and therefore make a great effort to ensure that MRSA does not spread. This means, in this case, that we are also demanding a little extra from the industry and from the employees, but we must bear in mind that these are necessary measures that can help to safeguard our health and that antibiotics also work well in the future. So, of course, the Left will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162217	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Erling Bonnesen, from Mr. Karsten Kollerup, I'm sorry, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162223	Thank you. Karsten Kollerup was my father. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left would be opposed to a model combining e-learning with classroom education. That was one of the things I signaled in my rapporteur's speech, perhaps it might be interesting to discuss in committee work. But here I would just like to ask for such an immediate reaction from the Left as to whether it is completely out of the question that the Left can imagine a combination of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162251	I think it is quite good, as the draft law has put it, and we fully support that. And by the way, e-learning is a modern way of doing it, so of course you find out too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162304	The questioner does not wish to speak again, so we thank Mr. Erling Bonnesen. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162317	Thank you. This bill is part of the MRSA Action Plan, which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind. The bill introduces a compulsory hygiene course for people handling pigs, and with the hygiene course it is hoped that the infection with antibiotic-resistant bacteria will be reduced, i.e. the infection that workers handling pigs risk taking out of the pig stall. After all, the Enhedslisten is part of the MRSA Action Plan, which is why we also support this bill. However, because there is one but, and this is also what the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, as several of the hearings also point out, it is rather unambitious that we are introducing this course only as an e-learning course. After all, it is both 3F and NNF who point out in their consultation that an e-learning course does not address questions about the management of the psychological working environment in a situation where you work in an environment where there are dangerous bacteria, for which there is a concern in the surrounding society. In addition, 3F points out the risk that the person who has received the course certificate may not necessarily be the person who has followed the course and this can be much more controlled in the case of confrontation training, i.e. an AMU course. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it would be much more obvious to carry out this course as an AMU course, and we would like to discuss this with the other parties during the committee procedure so that we can hopefully get a report from the country where we can raise the level of ambition for this effort. Although we in the Enhedslisten support this bill, it is also very important for me to say that we are not going anywhere near dealing with the problems of MRSA infection with this bill; we are not going anywhere near it. It is not long ago that a new inventory came that showed that now virtually every pig herd in this country has been infected with MRSA. We cannot avoid looking at a form of production where there is an extremely high consumption of both antibiotics and zinc. It is a form of production that is constantly pressured to increase productivity, increase efficiency, which affects animals. We're seeing an early weaning age. We see pigs being reared in far too little space. There are problems with diarrhea, there are problems with cut tails, there are problems with poor animal welfare. And this is compensated in one way or another by giving the animals medication, and that is from where the very high antibiotic consumption originates, and that is from where the increasing incidence of resistance and MRSA strains. So a hygiene course may help, compared to some getting better at washing hands and changing clothes when they leave the barn, thereby reducing the spread into the remaining and surrounding society a little, but we are not anymore. We will not solve the problems of MRSA and resistance to antibiotics in pig production until we have basically converted production. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162711	Thank you to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162724	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here introduces compulsory hygiene courses for persons engaged in the trade in live pigs, and it is in the clear expectation that the MRSA action plan initiative will be an effective tool and help reduce the risk of swine MRSA spreading from the stables to the rest of the community, thus limiting the spread of infection, perhaps even in the long term in relation to other herds. I and the Liberal Alliance fully agree that something needs to be done to reduce the risk of proliferation, and this is certainly a step on the way. This is an e-learning course which makes the completion very effective, flexible and flexible and does not cause unnecessary disadvantages for the individual pupil. And that's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162831	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405162850	Thank you. We all have an interest in reducing the spread of MRSA and we need a significant effort to do so. I will not mention all the other initiatives that the Radical Left could also have in relation to that happening and concentrate solely on this bill, which is about a hygiene course and of which we are a part, in that we are part of the conciliation circle behind the MRSA action plan. We are very concerned that we are working on prevention and research in this area, and a hygiene course is, after all, a prevention strategy; it is a way of preventing the spread of MRSA infection out of the stables. And that is where a hygiene course has been proposed. It should inform those dealing with pigs in relation to better hygiene, hand hygiene, etc., so as to avoid spreading. What is quite interesting when you do an e-based or remote-based course on one and a half days is whether it works • it has a lot to do with the person who is sitting and receiving it, i.e. whether you are able to take in the distance education or whether you are better off sitting in a classroom. This is a discussion which we would very much like to raise in the conciliation circle, because a broad range of educational opportunities is probably preferable in this context. What is also included in the consultation answer from the Danish Veterinary Association is that a course of 11⁄2 days may be just short enough. That is, of course, what is recommended, but we would very much like to discuss it. But, of course, it's important that you change your behavior after the course. That's what we have an interest in. And there are also several of those who have given a hearing answer, the Medical Association and the Council for Better Hygiene and also the Danish Veterinary Association, which mentions control. How are we gonna make sure that happens? Because today it is the case that the controls are carried out by the owner of the pig herd, who must therefore carry out the checks and ensure that the zoonotic protection programme is in order. And that is where you can be held responsible for it. So that is at least one of the things we want to discuss, in other words how to ensure that this supervisory body works. One thing is that you follow a course, but another is that we cannot keep track of what is going on in the heads of the people who receive the instruction. We can provide information on the situation, but we must also ensure that it is followed up. So a follow-up to the control of what you can call it, what you want and so the shape itself is one of the things we would like to discuss in committee. But, of course, we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163130	Thank you, Mrs. Sanne Bjørn. Sorry for the confused welcome. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163141	After all, the bill we are discussing today is part of the action plan agreed by a broad Parliament in 2015 to stop the spread of livestock MRSA. The introduction of a compulsory hygiene course for persons engaged in the trade in pigs is intended, as is apparent from the draft law, to reduce the amount of livestock MRSA that people can passively carry on to the surrounding community. More knowledge about livestock MRSA and the risks associated with MRSA are essential for reducing the spread of MRSA both inside and outside pig stalls in the future. That is why, of course, we are positive about the SF bill as one of many steps in the right direction. However, in committee we would like to give some thought to the target group and scope of the hygiene course, and a number of organisations have also done so in their response to the draft law. How far can the target group for the hygiene course be extended? This is one of the things mentioned by both 3F and NNF in their consultation reply, and 3F, for example, calls for the training requirement to include persons who work with horses and mink in the trade. As the Ministry also writes in its response to the organisations' consultation responses, the current target group of the hygiene course in relation to pigs is based on the action plan we jointly made, and therefore I should not blame the government for setting the current target group to include only the target group that we agreed together. However, since the agreement was made, the Ministry of the Environment and Food has recently explained in some answers to the Danish Parliament that in the period from 2014 to 2016, 44 people have been infected with livestock MRSA, where the infection probably originates from Danish mink farms. That is why I think it would be appropriate to reconsider whether the target group in the current legislative proposal is too narrow and should be extended. In addition, we also believe that it may be appropriate to consider the actual form of the course, as some have also mentioned. In no way do I object in principle to e-learning courses. I have taught them myself and believe that there may be fine quality in that, but an e-learning course of one and a half hours, where there is no possibility of choosing another form of teaching, must be considered. As has also been mentioned before, people learn in very different ways. For some, e-learning course is a really good idea, for others not. And so it does not quite escape with the recommendations of the expert group in relation to the scope. I would also say that the Danish Veterinarian Association also writes in their hearing reply and it is a quote that they doubt that after a course of 11⁄2 hours the students will be able to meet the objective described in the consultation answer. Against this background, I think it is appropriate that we should discuss in committee whether this problem is real and what might be better dealt with. For example, the Medical Association and the Better Hygiene Council propose that the draft law should open up courses other than e-learning and that it should, for example, include: be able to hold several types of the course, physical as well as IT-based. In addition, 3F and NNF propose that consideration should also be given to whether the course can be an obligatory part of relevant training such as agricultural training, training for industrial butchers, etc. We believe that this should also be considered in committee. So SF supports the proposal, but believes that we can be somewhat more ambitious, not least because the MRSA problem has not diminished since the MRSA action plan was rather the opposite. We think that the Minister's proposals are too modest in relation to the recommendations, so I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163554	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, so we move on quickly to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163604	Thank you. After all, the draft law is based on the agreement on the action plan for livestock MRSA of 16 April 2015. The initiatives in the action plan, which include hygiene measures, are expected to slow the spread. We have to say that is what we hope it will bring. Thus, the mandatory hygiene course aims to reduce the amount of livestock MRSA that humans can passively carry on to the surrounding community, thus minimising the risk of infection. The compulsory hygiene course will be a requirement which includes persons who are engaged in the trade of live animals in this case pigs. The compulsory hygiene course shall be provided by the Statens Serum Institute and by MRSA's advisory service as an e-learning course. Now there has been some talk about it today, and I am glad that with the achievements we have around Denmark, it is possible to get such a course here, which you can quickly establish, and whose content is as it says in the presentation to the law that can be developed on an ongoing basis. This means that it is not just something that is not developed as an AMU course, but is something that you can take up and develop on an ongoing basis, and after all it becomes somewhat easier with an e-learning course. It is, of course, an incredibly large task we have with MRSA, and I believe that this is something we will be discussing on an ongoing basis. This e-learning course, in its simple version, must prevent the people who work in agriculture and with pigs from taking this bacteria out and transferring it to other places when they leave the store and production, and that's what they need to be trained in. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163822	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so the trip has now come to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405163829	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. The Hygiene Course is one of several actions in the MRSA Action Plan, which overall focuses on preventing the spread of livestock MRSA to the surrounding society. The course will increase insight into the effect of hygiene in terms of limiting the spread of livestock MRSA and thus the risk of resistant bacteria being carried from the barns and beyond into society. The draft law proposes the introduction of an authorisation to make participation in a hygiene course compulsory for certain people handling pigs. It will then provide for compulsory participation of persons engaged in the trade in pig herds, persons transporting and handling live pigs and slaughterhouse workers handling live pigs. The course is established as an e-learning course, allowing participants to access the course from anywhere with an Internet connection. The e-learning course form provides flexibility in relation to the speed with which the course is run, thus facilitating the effective implementation of the initiative. The form of the course also allows for the continuous development of content in line with new knowledge, and the e-learning course is provided free of charge. An additional advantage is that the course allows also professional groups not covered by a mandatory hygiene course to take the course or parts of it and gain more insight into the effects of hygiene when handling pigs. The content of the course is developed by the Statens Serum Institute, including the MRSA advisory service. Here you have the specialist expertise in hygiene, and the Statens Serum Institute has also established a learning portal in the field of infectious hygiene and has good experience in the development and operation of e-learning programmes. The State Serum Institute is leading experts in hygiene and has a well-documented knowledge of MRSA in humans and hygiene measures to prevent the spread of infection. The MRSA advisory service is provided by specialised staff in the human hygiene area, and the advisory service has close and frequent contact with people who work with pigs on a daily basis, and thus with the target groups to which the hygiene course is addressed. The MRSA Advisory Service has an in-depth knowledge of the issues and problems faced by people working with pigs, and the Statens Serum Institut and the MRSA Advisory Service therefore possess the competences to develop the content of the hygiene course and manage the operation of the course. Finally, I would like to point out that, with the hygiene course, we are implementing an important initiative in the MRSA Action Plan. In the plan, we have undertaken to work partly to prevent the spread of infection and partly to reduce the prevalence of livestock MRSA. With the initiative on the hygiene course, we focus on limiting the spread of infection by livestock MRSA to the surrounding society. With these words, I look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164133	There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first one's from sir. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164138	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister, with the recommendations that have been made here, that e-learning should be complementary to e-learning, for example. class education. It's just to get the minister to comment a little on choosing something that has actually been recommended as a supplement and making it the only educational offer in this field. What are the considerations behind this? At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government is prepared to enter into discussions in committee on perhaps creating a combination model combining classroom instruction with e-learning, so that e-learning, as recommended, is exactly complementary to the teaching that is to take place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164228	Thank you, President. It is the government's view that an e-learning course contributes with the elements needed to get a training course that is both rich in content, but of course it is also in relation to flexibility, among other things. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party described the possibility of updating, developing and so on. So this model that the government is setting up, we think we're covering what needs to be covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164259	I expected that too, because it is the government that has put forward the bill. But I don't think I'm getting an answer. So, when there's a recommendation to use this as a supplement, why do you choose to make e-learning the only form of supply? At the same time, I am also politically somewhat interested to hear whether the Minister is open to a discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties about creating a combination model. When you look at the employee side's proposals and consultation answers, you can see that they say that there will be a valuable aspect of it, and that is especially in relation to the psychological aspect of this getting infected with MRSA and the challenges it can bring. So is the Minister open to engage in such a discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164340	Thank you for that, President. Well, as a starting point, the government has outlined a model that we believe delivers what needs to be delivered in relation to employees who need to go through a course. And, of course, it is up to the parties to find out what they want to discuss in connection with the work of the committee. But the government's starting point is that this is both flexible and a construction that is possible to develop forward-looking in case it becomes necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164408	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164410	Thank you. After all, we are a lot of parties behind the MRSA Action Plan, and what really matters to Enhedslisten is that, when the plan is to be gradually implemented, we are also constantly involved. I think we have been experiencing this lately, and I would like to sign for that: when something new happens, we are informed, we are brought to a meeting, so we have the opportunity to give in kicks as well. This is perhaps something else that has happened here, because it would have been really nice to have been involved in how this should be implemented. I fully agree that it is, in the end, a majority who evaluates it, but this involvement certainly puts Enhedslisten and I am very much appreciated. So we hope that we can continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164458-2	I would like to make a commitment to that. I think we have had some very constructive meetings in the circle, and there is no doubt that the more involvement there is, the more ownership there is for the solutions we must have. This also means that we will have a different public debate when everyone has the same level of information. And I will make such an effort to ensure that we have also progressed in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164524	I think that's really good. I think we might have had another platform to discuss this bill on the basis of if we had been involved in the past and the views of all parties on the different types of course had been involved. So I'm just thinking that this confirms that this is a very good model and that when you have an agreement and it has to be implemented, you also have a very close dialogue on how it should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164548	I fully agree with that, and therefore it is also good that we have the legislative work on the elements of this where we can discuss it without prejudice. I understand the signal from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the creation of the material, and I have, of course, taken note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164602	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164603	To follow this up a little, I would say that I very much agree that when you make such an agreement, a political agreement is a political agreement, something else is a concrete legislative proposal. Something is also happening in the meantime. However, I would also just like to say that from the time we made the agreement in 2015 and focused on pigs I also said my rapporteur's speech today, so there is now also some information that we have a problem with mink. And it can be said that some time has passed, and we all have the right to become wiser. Could the Minister be prepared to extend that target group to include those working with mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164645	Thank you for the question. Now I simply do not recall in the answers I gave to the Folketing whether it was a single person who had been noted as a mink carrier or whether it was a more general problem. I remember the answer a while ago. But it is clear that if it turns out to some extent that there are also challenges with regard to the handling of MRSA in relation to mink or to horses or the like, then we will have to discuss it in the circle. And then there's the good thing about this e-learning course that it can be updated with e.g. a mink section. But we'll have to discuss this with each other in the conciliation circle about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164729	I was thinking that this could be some of the things we had just made clear in the committee process. It should be relatively simple to find out what the extent of the problem of carriers is, because it is a small adjustment that is needed just to expand the target group. So, yeah, couldn't we make it in this round so we don't have to do another round?
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164755	Thank you for the question. Of course, we in the Ministry will try to delve into what the real challenge is in relation to minks-contaminated carriers when it comes to MRSA, and then we can take a position on it in the committee procedure, because these parties are also part of the circle. So we can make that relatively simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164813	Then there are no further brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164831	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405164854	The proposal should make it easier to pay out funds from the rural programme. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to schemes for the modernisation of pig farms, the modernisation of farmyards and support for support for Natura 2000 sites. The rules are simplified by introducing standard costs for project support schemes under the Rural Programme. This means that the amount of grants in individual cases is not determined on the basis of expenditure actually incurred but instead on the basis of a pre-determined amount for the type of purchase concerned. The amount shall be calculated on the basis of valid data, which may, for example, be based on historical data and expert judgement. Low practice means that the farmer should not examine the market price of a service twice, and this is of course to the satisfaction of both the industry and the Agriculture and Fisheries Authority as the authority. The draft law requires a change in the offer law as the law prevents standard costs from being introduced on the support schemes of the rural programme. The Offer Act states that standard costs cannot be introduced in cases where national law requires compliance with public procurement rules. Such a requirement is made in relation to the support schemes of the Rural Programme. This means that, as the rules now stand, standard costs cannot be applied. This is inappropriate as it is private investment, which should not be covered by the Offer Act as a starting point, and where the Ministry of the Environment and Food considers that standard costs provide in a safe way the same consideration as the Offer Act. Therefore, the aid schemes from the Rural Programme are exempted from the rules of the Offer Act by this proposal. The European Court of Auditors has recommended that Member States make greater use of standard costs. They recommend this, as experience has shown that the error rates are smaller and the administrative burden is reduced when standard costs are used. In addition, the Ministry already started preparations for this work in 2014 under the then Social Democratic led government, and on this basis the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165114	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. No one feels challenged, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party who is warmly welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165132	Thank you. The aim of the proposal is to allow the introduction of standard costs for project support schemes under the Rural Programme. As the previous rapporteur has so well explained, this is simply a matter of giving the Minister authority which we are not usually very much in favour of, but in this case I can accept it to allow a change to the tender law in certain cases. It is also very clearly defined in the legislative text what exactly the Minister is authorised to do, and that is very good. What I think is positive about this proposal is that, when you switch to these standard costs, it turns out that you can shorten the processing time for payments by about 75%. That's really positive. I think that most people who apply for grants get annoyed when it takes a very long time; when you expect to receive some money, at least it is annoying not to get them relatively quickly. That's one thing. The second point, which is also positive about the proposal, is that some 15 million will be saved. kr. per year in administration. I always think that is positive. Then we can discuss what we need that money for. It's also always nice to have some money we can find out if we might need something else. So I've written that behind my ear, and then the Minister knows it too. Against this background, of course, we in the Danish People's Party can support the proposal, also in view of the fact that it provides shorter payout time and benefits agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165326	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165336	Thank you. In connection with the examination of this draft law, L 166, on the Rural Fund, of course, the Left will vote in favour. The proposal should make it possible to introduce the so-called standard costs into project applications under the Rural Programme, and that is good news for everyone. This is good for those who manage the support schemes in the administration of the Agriculture and Fisheries Authority. They get administrative relief when they no longer have to process a wide range of information which is basically not needed and which often and many times just has complicated things. It's good for the industry too. This makes it simpler for traders to apply for subsidies, and it is expected, according to the report, that the legislative proposal we are dealing with here will reduce the length of proceedings by perhaps as much as 75%. The proposal means that aid applicants will no longer be required to include specific budgets; they will no longer have to comply with comprehensive and expensive documentation requirements; and they will no longer be required to include directly comparable offers as evidence of market price based on detailed information, etc. etc. This will make the system simpler and more transparent in future and make procedures more uniform. So all in all, I am pleased that with this bill we can cut away some of the bureaucracy so that in future we can spend our time and money on other things that really matter: creating growth and development that also benefit our rural areas. The Left, of course, supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165519	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. And welcome to Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165526	Thank you. This bill will, above all, ensure less bureaucracy. This will make it easier for more people to apply for funds from the Rural Programme. After all, the rural programme is making a lot of important efforts, for example. in the field of nature. So it is in every way a good idea that it gets easier and that it gets cheaper, because it means that these funds become more accessible to more people. So, standard costs that the bill will introduce, we can support. We can support the fact that we are generally trying to open up these support schemes to more applicants, which also allows many of the small ones, who do not have the large resources for a very, very heavy administrative process, to have access to these funds. So the Enhedslisten supports L 166, and I should also welcome the alternative and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165635	Thank you. We welcome Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165643	Thank you, sir. President. Well, who knows, maybe it should now be my job to try to find someone, this proposal is actually bad. It should then perhaps just be the academics who might lose some employment on this basis, because the bill here makes a very significant debureaucratisation of the administration for project support under the Rural Programme. This is done by using so-called standard costs, so that the aid is fixed in advance and not on the basis of actual costs or on the basis of tenders received. Experience from the European Union shows that there may be quite substantial relief from the administrative burden for both the authorities and farmers. It can actually turn into real, a lot of saved millions over time... so many that I'm actually pretty surprised by the estimated savings in kroner and ear. As far as the board is concerned, this change could also lead to considerably shorter processing times and, in fact, also to fewer errors. The EU rules allow standard costs to be applied, so that is why I and the Liberal Alliance, of course, support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165814	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165821	Thank you. When the aim of the draft law is to allow standard costs to be included in project support schemes in the rural programme, it also gives the effect of having a double gain, both for those seeking the programme to make it easier and for those who have to manage it to make it easier. The Radical Left, of course, is in favour of this. The reduction of the error rates and the reduction of the administrative burden are, after all, something we demand very much when we introduce possible subsidies, and that is actually the case in this legislative proposal. It must also be simpler for those who need to seek, and we naturally pay tribute to that too. There is a single hair in the soup, and it is just something about the time shift. I am aware that the Ministry says that the date of entry into force is not an obstacle to the final payment, because in 2016 there has been a round of applications with subsidies for the modernisation of stables, subsidies for the loosening of shelters and for healing projects in Natura 2000 areas, and they have all been based on standard prices. This is one of the points in the consultation answer from Agriculture & Food, and it should not be the case that an error payment is made in relation to the cost actually incurred. We are aware that the Ministry has taken in too. That is why the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405165959	Thank you to Mrs Sanne Bjørn. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170004	I shall be very brief, because this draft law has been quite well explained to us to open up to the introduction of standard costs in project support schemes under the Rural Programme. And I just want to say that with the prospect of great administrative reliefs for both the industry, the individual farmer and the board of directors, without there being, at least as I can see through it, any negative consequences, we think that this is a very sensible proposal. So we back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170036	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp, and welcome to Mr Torp. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170040	Thank you. After all, this bill is about making things simpler in relation to these projects and the whole administration of it. And as the material shows, over the next four years we will be able to find a saving of about 60 million. kr. In this case. It is not the European Union that is holding this up. It has been our own offer law that has caused it to run as it has. And now we are introducing some standard costs on various projects, which means that whether you contract with cheap or expensive craftsmen, you have a standard price for this. This means that we get the same conditions, whether you are good at getting the right prices home or not. This makes it transparent, and it does so quickly, including case-law. We will then remove the obstacle which has been the obstacle, namely the tender law, in these relatively small cases, in relation to the fact that we could implement it with a standard cost rule. So the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170205	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then we welcome the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170209	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the rapporteurs for the positive statements. I am glad that with this proposal we can simplify the handling of the very complicated cases of project support. It is the case that farmers today are experiencing a great deal of bureaucratic trouble with many of these conditions, just as there are bureaucratic, comprehensive and complicated documentation requirements. Therefore, it is essential for us to have simplifications that benefit the industry, including the business community in general, in Denmark. That's something we're working on with the other hand. In addition to the farmers, this will also give the Agriculture and Fisheries Authority a number of administrative reliefs. So it will be good that, as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, I think I said, a little rewritten, we are spending the money on what is right. So I look forward to the adoption of this and thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170308	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. No one seems to object, so I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170405170327	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 7 April 2017, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
