ParlaMint-DK_20171005100031	The meeting is open. The opening debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be seen directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk, and subsequently on video on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005100103	Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt (V) has applied for leave from 5 October 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. As of 9 October 2017, Lea Wermelin (S) has applied for leave from 9 October 2017 and Pernille Skipper (EL) has applied for leave from 10 October 2017, both cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Hans Christian Schmidt (V) and Karsten Hønge (SF) have applied for leave from 25 October 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005100214	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Grand District of Copenhagen, Mads Fuglede, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 5 October 2017 on the occasion of the leave of Mr Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, that the First Deputy of the Grand District of Bornholm, Mrs Claus Larsen-Jensen-Jensen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 9 October 2017 on the occasion of the Leave of Mr Lea Wermelin, that the First Deputy of the Grand District of Funen, Jesper Kiel, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as of 10 October 2017 on the occasion of Pernille Skipper's leave, that the First Deputy of the Grand District of Southern Jutland, Hans Christian Thoning, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 25 October 2017 on the occasion of Hans Christian Schmidt's leave, and that the Second Deputy of the Grand District of Funen, Carl Valentin, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from Karsten October 2017 on the Høng of Kars leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005100338	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 111 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005100414	As in previous years, this statement makes it possible to refer to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Finance Act. The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005100452	Wednesday I was on Ærø. It is a nice place, a lot of commitment, tourism lives well and there are new projects being put into the lake. But there are also challenges: relocation and adults on transfer income. The government has put forward its tax plan, and I am thinking here at the beginning of the parliamentary year, whether or not we should test the tax plan in relation to Ærø. Now I hope that Ærø has not put up with almost too much from the bourgeois government, for the conclusion is as clear as it is unfair. Together with Langeland, Ærø is the two municipalities in the country that get the least out of the government's tax plan. Now I understand that Ærø will soon be visited by the Prime Minister, and there you can of course ask what you need a tax relief for when you get a visit from the Prime Minister. But the Prime Minister will be busy if the Prime Minister is to visit all the parts of Denmark that do not win so much on government policy. Because, and that's the question... is this better for Samsø? The answer is no. Is it better for Lolland? The answer is no. Is it better for Bornholm? The answer is no. It is quite different for Gentofte, for Hørsholm and Rudersdal, because it is the municipalities that get the most out of tax cuts. In other words, the government is pulling Denmark wrong; the government is pursuing politics for the few, those who already have. The left was once a party that was occupied by the small communities in Denmark, but that is no longer the case. Last parliamentary year went by making broad agreements, good agreements: windmills, North Sea, a gang package, housing tax, and yes, new parties joined the government, and that is why I think we should congratulate the Liberal Alliance on its liberal fingerprints. True, there was no flat tax on homes as one wanted, nor was there a higher retirement age, but, but, but, one then got banned exercise on the bridges and internet in the high schools. I'm kidding. Things are going well in Denmark • much is going well. It is going well for our economy, unemployment has fallen, employment has increased, but we are also facing some crucial and major challenges. Today I would like to dwell on the five which we in the Socialist Group consider to be the most important. This applies first and foremost to the area of integration. Thousands of refugees and foreigners have come to Denmark and many are doing well in our society. They have got a job, they have learned our language, they are engaged in our society. That is good and deserves praise and support. But this does not apply to all of them. Unfortunately, too many women with minority backgrounds are not part of the labour market, social control of girls is widespread in large parts of particularly vulnerable residential areas, and parallel societies have become a reality, and gang conflict and radicalisation are the reverse of a failed immigration policy. Secondly, we lack time and care, and we lack resources in our welfare societies. One in four cancer patients in Denmark does not receive the treatment they need in time, the employees run too heavily in many places, and it is well known that large savings have been made, not least in the field of education. That brings me to the third big challenge. Danish companies are doing well both at home and on the international stage, but they are going to lack labour. In fact, many are already doing so today, they are missing blacksmiths, engineers, electricians, and in a few years' time that problem will only have grown even bigger. It is therefore directly economically irresponsible that we have a government that will not guarantee the Danes the right competences. As the fourth major challenge, we run the risk of Denmark being distorted even more. There's been centralized and centralized in this country. There are fewer local cops on the street today than there were before. Young people outside large cities have had fewer educations to choose from. And now the government chooses to set up for further centralisation. Production schools, one of the most important training opportunities for our vulnerable young people, must be closed down. Denmark is being dragged off the rails. Finally, we have the fifth challenge, which is unrest on the international stage. We have an aggressive Putin in the east that equips and threatens Denmark's security and security. And we have a new president in the West who is turning down the necessary efforts in the climate field. It's windy in the world. At home, the government is about to terminate the special contract on which we have built the Danish society. It is a contract that has for decades ensured a strong social safety net, growth and development throughout the country, low inequality and therefore also a good competitiveness. In fact, the government bases its policy on the opposite of what has made Denmark strong. The green transition will be dealt with stepmotherly. There are fine words from the Prime Minister of New York, but no to coastal windmills here at home. Those who already have the most must have more; those who most need a strong welfare society must have less. The challenges we face as a society are real. They're big, but we can solve them. But it requires a new policy, and it requires a government that sets out to solve the right problems in Denmark. Firstly, we must have a fight with parallel societies. Muslim free schools that do not benefit cohesion and integration must be closed down. Where do we have in the left in this case? Will the government join us? We will continue to pursue a strict immigration policy, not least because integration needs to improve. We want to maintain border controls, and the Danes' security must be ensured as the most important thing in the context of a future defence settlement. We will spend more money on security and security. Secondly, we need to move away from the belief of time that care can only be made more effective. We are getting older in Denmark over the coming years. That's good, and I'm glad. But it also costs some money if we want to ensure dignity in our care for the elderly. And that's why we have to do things in the right order. We want to make sure that all cancer patients receive the right treatment and we want to be sure to have an elderly care with time and dignity before we talk tax cuts. The same applies to a proper school for our children and a proper education for our young people. Welfare is also to combat the inequality that applies to many children's growing-up conditions. Thirdly, of course, we need more growth. We want to ensure a higher deduction for companies that choose to leave their research and innovation in Denmark. And we would also like to ensure that some of the young people enter the labour market more quickly so that we can meet the needs of companies for labour. As a new idea, we should then introduce candidate jobs. A skilled engineering student must have the opportunity, after completing his bachelor's degree programme, to enter the company, get credit for his work experience and get a legal claim to be able to return and complete his education. Fourthly, we would like to see a stop to centralisation, because the country will have to be more closely linked. We would like a relocation plan for welfare education. We want to have more teachers and educators trained around the country and we want to fight against the government's wish to dismantle vulnerable young people's production schools. We would like to set up four new tax centres around the country with a total of 1,000 new employees. Fifthly, we must maintain the green transition. And it must not be undermined by either liberal slowness or liberal indifference. Green research must be given priority so that we can take the next steps. And we need a broad energy reconciliation so that the next ambitions can be written. Because it's not just about producing the clean energy that we've become really good at in Denmark. Now we also need to be able to find a way to store it on those days when it doesn't blow so much. The energy agreement should be broad. They can find out in the municipal councils. I would urge that we do the same at Christiansborg. Finally, the Prime Minister said in his opening speech that the Prime Minister sees the young people who raise their hands when he visits a high school in Esbjerg. They are the ones who, according to the Prime Minister, seize opportunities and have the courage to live. I know many young people who have the courage to live, but I also know the others. And my vision, the vision of the Social Democracy, is to conduct politics for both groups for those who look forward to the future, but just as much for those who are worried; for those who live in the cities and have been given more opportunities, but just as much for all of you who live in the smaller communities; for those who earn a lot and for those who earn the least. We want the differences in Denmark to be reduced, that we bring Denmark together. And we think that is best done in a broad cooperation in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101543	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we are in the middle of the rapporteur's line, and the first in the rapporteur's line to make a brief comment is Mr Cryer. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go. But there was just a proposal for adoption to be read out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101558	There is also a proposal for adoption. On behalf of the parties Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has turned down Denmark's green ambitions to the detriment of climate, citizens and business alike. The Folketing instructs the government to conduct an energy and climate policy that supports the Paris Agreement and the UN's 17 worldwide goals, thereby bringing Denmark back on an ambitious path through broad political reconciliation. The green transition needs ambitious and long-term framework conditions so that in the future we will have more green jobs in Denmark. The Folketing also instructs the government to reduce inequality and combat poverty. • V 1).
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101645	Thank you. We shall then proceed to brief remarks from the rapporteur's line. Here you go, sir. Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101650	Thank you for that, President. It's always good at a premonition, so you're super clear. And thank you to the Social Democrat President for the speech. I had the opportunity here on Tuesday to see parts of the popular political magazine on the DR2, the debate in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen also participated, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen commented on the Prime Minister's speech and had noticed something that I too noticed in the Prime Minister's speech. It is my experience that I might have understood it a little better, and we can make that right now, because I was actually a little puzzled by Mrs Mette Frederiksen's view of whether one can be integrated into Denmark if one wants to. In this way, integration is possible if you want to:
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101748	Of course, you can be integrated into Denmark if you want to, and this is certainly what matters whether it is possible to do so: that when you come here, whether you are a refugee or a foreigner, you seize the opportunities that exist in Danish society, but that you also stamp into the community that Denmark is, become part of the labour market, learn our language, become active in the association life, engage in your children's school, but, of course, you also acknowledge the fundamental democratic freedoms on which Denmark is built, and thus equality between the sexes and the individual's right to live the life you want to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101828	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101833	You can be integrated into Denmark if you want, regardless of religion. That is just not what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said on Tuesday, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen put it in her mouth that religion had nothing to do with integration. This may well be the case with lack of integration. So just... we agree. One can easily be integrated into Denmark. I think there are many people who are reassured about social democracy still think you can, even if you belong to a religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005101921	Well, let's just do another round of this. So, I have to say that I continue to believe that the Prime Minister underestimates the challenges that exist, with the way in which some who have come to Denmark use their religion in relation to Danish society. We have plenty of both refugees and foreigners in Denmark who have a different religion from the majority religion in Denmark, who are doing well and who accept the basic premise that first comes politics and democracy, and then comes religion. This applies also to thousands of new Danes with Muslim background, I know many of them, but I can see the opposite, that is, where one professes an interpretation of a religion that is not compatible with being integrated into Danish society, and I think it is important to have both elements in the continued discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102010	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102013	Thank you. I thought it was really, really good that the top of the Social Democratic Party changed its attitude to the demand for productivity in hospitals. It was very much needed, and I thought it was very gratifying that the concerns expressed by the hospital staff were listened to. I also believe that it has been very, very crucial for the agreement that landed yesterday, which means that the productivity requirement has now landed in the trash, and I wonder if the government has been able to listen to the fact that there was now a majority in the Folketing who did not think it was a good idea. However, my question to Mrs Mette Frederiksen is on education. After all, the same thinking still exists in the field of education, namely that it is proposed that every year 2% should be cut. in vocational training, secondary schools, pedagogic education, teacher training, etc. etc. 14.7 billion kr. The government will cut education for the next four years. So now that we've dropped this way of managing hospitals, as we've walked away from this idea as a management tool in the hospital area, does the Social Democrats think we should also do it in the field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102129	I think there are two things to say about the savings in education. One is that it is so infinitely short-term. So, virtually all adults today probably with very few exceptions say to their children and young people: The most important thing you can do is to take care of your school and get an education. And we know that education is the best guarantee we can give people that they can realise their own potential, break with negative social heritage and stand up to a globalisation that makes really great demands. So it is so infinitely short-term for the government to cut education, and this is especially true with regard to vocational training • we would like more young people to take a skilled education, and then the government cuts down. The second thing I would like to say about the way in which money is saved is that I would not recommend, in general terms, what is known as green harvesting savings, because I do not think it brings anything new with it, and I do not think it ensures a higher quality. Then the question is whether we can roll back all the savings that the government has made in the field of education. I cannot promise that it will be possible to do that overnight, because it is a government that moves a great deal of money around this society, and of course we have to take things in the order in which we also have the financial capacity to do it. But the objective is clear: we must not save on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102248	Mrs. Stine Brix, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102249	I have two follow-up questions. The first is: does that mean that when or if a social democratic government comes in one day, you will not save 2%? In education? The second is: does this mean that the 14.7 billion will be addressed? kr. and try to get rid of the savings that the government is now putting in place, which we must expect to go very much beyond the quality of our training courses. What teachers, what educators, what nurses will we get in the future? Are we going to tackle the elimination of those savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102329	I very much hope that, after a parliamentary election, we will be able to bring together a majority that wants education, and I think we can actually do that. And, of course, I have also noted that a party such as the Radical Left, like the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats, is preoccupied with this issue. And then we have to do things as we have the economy to be able to do it, because there are other considerations to be taken into account. Well, in my speech today, I also spent time on the elderly. I do not think that we have in all places an elderly care that has a quality and a level that we can be familiar with, and there are also challenges in the field of health. So we have many tasks ahead of us, but I think we can agree that education is important both for young people and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102414	Thank you. And then I think that from the outset we must make every effort to keep to our speaking time. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102423	I liked the fact that Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as chairman and rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, said here today that initiatives against parallel societies were important and wanted them. One of the discussions we have at the moment is, after all, the very oppressive symbol of the burka. There I have understood it that way, and there we in the Danish People's Party belong to those who believe that it would actually be an important initiative if we were to have a ban on burkas in public space that the Social Democratic Party on that point waits for what it is that the Left and the government will play out in that area. I would like Mrs Mette Frederiksen to tell us what the reason for waiting is. A number of initiatives are being called for against parallel societies. Here we have an obvious one. Why, then, do we have to wait until some other parties have done their job? Why not just do it now and introduce a ban on burkas?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102526	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102527	First of all, about the burka and I think we can take the niqabben, which is similar to the burka, into the same discussion: I see it, and it is quite rightly quoted, as one of the most female oppressors, and I do not think it belongs in any society, and of course not in Danish society at all. So I think we should find a way to get the burka out of our street picture and out of what is a parallel society. Because I don't think of the burka as a garment. I really regard the burka as structural oppression of one sex, and I will never defend it or legitimise it. So I am not buying into what I can hear is part of the public debate, namely that it should be a freedom for men to suppress women by having the burka in Denmark. So we are against the burka and we want to ensure that the burka is not part of Danish society. Then we will have to discuss with each other here in the Folketing how we do best and wisely, because at least as far as sanctions are concerned, there are also obvious dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102638	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102639	But listen: Now we have a prime minister who says that there are some immigrants in Denmark who do very well, who want Denmark to integrate, and then we have over here some groups in our society who absolutely do not want what continues to oppress women, lives in parallel societies, does not really bother Denmark. Then what we in the Danish People's Party are saying is: let us at least show a sign here that is understandable, namely that we do not want some people who cannot integrate, cannot enter the labour market. Then the Social Democrats say: No, we have to wait and hear what some other parties will say; we are against the burka, yes, but we have to wait. Why not just do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102725	So now the rapporteur is also talking about the government for which the Danish People's Party is parliamentary and which is still in an internal clarification process with itself. I really don't need clarification about what we're supposed to think about the burka. That is where we differ from, at least, some in liberal Denmark. For me, being obsessed with freedoms can never be exchanged for oppression. Therefore, one cannot defend the burka by thinking that it is a person's right to do what he now thinks is right. So I am against the burka, I can hardly say it strongly enough, but we cannot avoid the fact that there are also some dilemmas in relation to a ban, including what kind of sanction we have to impose. Are the police supposed to take their clothes off, so to speak? Are we gonna get jail time? Are we gonna get a fine? We would like to discuss these matters with the other parties of the Folketing. But the direction and target are clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102819	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102822	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur spoke a lot about decentralisation versus centralisation. I therefore agree with the overall view that we must ensure a better balance for Denmark and ensure that things are going well in all parts of Denmark. Having said that, what the rapporteur says quite frankly sounds rather hollow when, at the same time, the Social Democratic President's reports on the free basic schools are in mind, it was up to the Social Democratic Party, not so long ago, to hold their congress. The chairman of the Social Democratic Party said that there would be a cut in subsidies for free schools. Free schools are not just private schools in the cities. Free schools are also free schools, which have emerged in rural areas, on the basis that the municipalities have in many places decided to close the local municipal school. Then, through a local commitment, parents have laboriously got a free school on their feet, so that development is ensured precisely in the local communities. I understand that the rapporteur wants to punish with a small subsidy. How on earth is that connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005102930	First of all, let us look at what it was like a few years ago. At that time, the grant to free and private schools was significantly less than it is today. What has happened to the fact that the subsidy has been increased? It has happened that many municipalities have had to cut down on primary school because of tight public budgets. And when we see both movements at one and the same time, we have to make up for ourselves whether that is the development we want. We are in favour of having a strong primary school, we are also strongly in favour of there being an alternative to that, moreover, we have had it in Denmark for many years, but we also need to spend the money properly. And when we see that in many places there is a lack of resources in the primary school to ensure proper education, and when we see a government that sets up the subsidy for private schools, then it becomes a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103026	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103028	In other words, the rapporteur stands by the rapporteur's view that it should be for the best-off parents in the future; that Danish parents should therefore dig deeper into their pockets in order to be able to choose a school other than the municipal school. Then I would just like to say that the consideration of the economy is not true. It doesn't add up. What the government has proposed is that you increase the co-financing to 76 percent, and in my mathematics book 76 percent. a lower figure than 100 per cent, which is why it is a saving every time some choose a free school. Does the President of the Social Democratic Party think that 76 is a higher figure than 100?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103109	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103110	No, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party will never say that it is. But it could be that for those who had to listen, we should just have in place that in the past the grant to free and private schools was 71 per cent. Originally it was 75%, then it was lowered, and now it is raised again. After all, it is an increase at a time when many municipalities are experiencing that there are not enough resources to secure the primary school that they want to ensure and which, after all, is the school that many children go to. There we want to say, so to speak, that we need to use resources where there are most children.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103153	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103157	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. I would like to ask one thing that Mrs Mette Frederiksen touched on in the second point, namely that we lack time and care in the welfare society. That speaks both in that point, but in fact also in Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech at the people's meeting at Bornholm this year, which I myself was very pleased about, because it has just spoken into the distrust that exists among young people in our society today. I think it's somewhere between 6% and 8%. by young people who feel lonely every day. I would really like to ask you more about this, that is, in a genuinely curious question, as to how we can overcome it. Why are so many people in our society today feeling lonely, and what can we do to remedy it? Because we can create a very good welfare society, a very good society in the future, but if the people who have to inhabit it and take care of it are not well, then it will be a little bit difficult to take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103255	Thank you. And here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103256	Thank you for the question. And let me just share an experience from after the public meeting. It is true that when we went to the public meeting in June, I chose to leave such more traditional party leadership speeches and talk about young people and mental vulnerability. And I have never, in my long political life, received so many comments after a speech like that of very many young people who experience themselves in a situation where they find it difficult to understand their lives and actually find the joy of it, and from even more parents, teachers and others who work with the young people. So we're dealing here with something that's right. On paper, Danish children and young people have probably never really felt better than they have now, but there are a lot of people who are sad, and a lot of people who find it difficult in their lives to get the ends to meet, things to hang together. I do not want to say that I have answered what we have to do in its completeness. I think that's a lot of things put together. There's something about the competition in this society, and there's something about the way we set up our education system, which I think is pushing some of our children and young people. I also believe that some of this is about social media and thus a spirit of time. So I guess I can't fully answer it in one minute that we'll have to look at several different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103419	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103421	Thank you. I have not answered that either, but I think we owe it to each other in this Parliament to ask the question and perhaps to try to answer it. One of the things that we have pointed out in the alternative that we might imagine we have done wrong in the past is that Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself said that we might have designed our education system too tight in relation to the fact that there are many things you have to live up to when you go to school, at high school and at university. Does Mrs Mette Frederiksen mean that too? In other words, is it time for us to look again at the demands, the performance requirements that we make of our young people when they go to school and to youth education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103503	I believe that we also need to look critically at the way in which we have arranged our education system. Because there is pressure that some of our children and young people find it difficult to live up to, and I am not sure that we have got the cut right in the decisions we have made. There is also some of this, I think, about how we as a society handle it when a child or a young person is vulnerable. And there are many who tell me that it is as if the problems should be allowed to grow really big before we intervene, that is to say that this only happens when there is a diagnosis or you have become so psychologically vulnerable that you need help in the psychiatry. There I think we should get better at seeing it at an earlier stage and taking action, both as parents, but also as for example. school and educational institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103548	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103552	Thank you. I would like to know how the Socialists vote on the Danish People's Party's proposal to ban full-scale suits in public spaces. Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned the issue of the penalty, but the proposal is designed in such a way that if it is adopted, it means that we in the Danish Parliament agree that we must then ensure that it is prohibited, and then we must discuss precisely what the penalty should be. Should it be the French model, where there is a fine and then a course in French values here at home, I think we prefer a course in Danish values, or should it be the Belgian model, where there is simply a prison sentence for a week, as far as I remember? So there is the possibility of being able to indicate that you are opposed to it and then discuss what the penalty should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103639	Well, I am that is the position of the Social Democrats, and then we would like to discuss that we have done in other contexts in the Danish Parliament, when there is a motion for a resolution • how we can arrange ourselves as wisely as possible. So it is a commitment to embark on that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103707	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103709	Thank you for that answer. Can I take this as an indication that the Socialists are voting in favour of the proposal? Then all we need is the government to report that they're doing it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103719	Yes, it is certainly interesting to hear what the government's position is. We may be told later today, because the position of the Social Democratic Party is clear: the burka does not belong in Danish society, just as it does not belong in other societies. For those who may think differently, we should perhaps remind each other that part of the efforts we have made in Afghanistan, for example, against the Taliban was for women's freedom not to walk around in a burka, and now we have to discuss it in our own society. So, in order to ensure equality between men and women, to address the problems of parallel societies and, moreover, to ensure a free, democratic Denmark, I do not think we should have burkas in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103803	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103808	Thank you so much for your speech. There is much we agree to disagree with the government on, not least in the green area, where climate ambitions are apparently held and the negotiations on a broad energy settlement have been postponed because the government in that area is too busy, without really knowing what. But I would also like to say that it is no art in opposition to find anything to disagree with the government. That's why you're in opposition. Therefore, it is often harder to find something that one can agree on. In the field of foreigners, Mrs Mette Frederiksen has often fallen a little lighter than I am, and it is probably not for me to defend the foreign policy of the government. I'd probably find it hard to find the words against my nature if I had to defend everything from end to end. That is why I also became aware when I thought the Prime Minister said something right and something important in his speech last Tuesday. So, following on from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's question I would just like to say that when the Prime Minister said, and I quote: 'Integration is not about skin color, not about religion; it is about choosing Denmark to join' Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005103918	I think it is too superficial a formulation and consideration. This will, of course, be part of the discussion we had before. Of course, you can live and live and be integrated into Denmark and have a different religion than the one most people have in Denmark. This is true whether you come here as a Sikh or a Muslim or have a third religion with you. And a great many people succeed, but that requires religion to be placed, so to speak, further down than what defines our society, namely the democratic decisions and the democratic rules of the game. The Prime Minister nods: so far, so good. After all, there is a group in Denmark that does not, as it were, find their lives in the right order in terms of religion and where religion is used, for example. as an argument that women should not be part of the labour market, that young people should not marry who they want to marry and where imams preach values and attitudes that are not compatible with Danish society. Of course, religion plays a role, and when it plays a role in this way, it is incompatible with ensuring good integration, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104031	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104036	I mean, I think it's a shame that when there's so much you can have a real disagreement about, you're inventing disagreements. Because on this point I think it is actually important to try to create at least a hope and a collection of some very basic and basic things. After all, the Prime Minister also said what is undoubtedly right that the vast majority of foreigners in Denmark contribute positively because they have chosen Denmark to do so. Over 70%. of non-western immigrants are in work, less than 3%. have ever been criminals and contacts with law enforcement. So, the large, broad majority works in Danish society. That is why I just think it would be fair if the President of the Socialist Party, like me, would say: yes, Prime Minister, we agree; it is not about skin colour, it is not about religion, it is about will.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104128	But unfortunately both realities live side by side in Denmark. It is true that fortunately we have many with a foreign background in Denmark who are doing well. One might go so far as to say that today we would find it difficult to get our society to hang together if it were not for all those with a foreign background who drive our buses, who operate us when we are in the hospital, who care for our elderly, who are at the pharmacy down in the centre street in Ballerup when I come down or who perform all the other work functions that are there. But there is also another reality, and we need to discuss this reality as specifically and as directly as the first reality: There are imams in Denmark that pull their listeners away from Danish society; there are girls who are oppressed in the name of religion. We must fight that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104217	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104220	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I usually ask about the education ceiling, but today I think I would like to ask something else, because I was very surprised by Mrs Mette Frederiksen when Mrs Mette Frederiksen at the public meeting began to address this issue with young people who are under pressure, and that has also been mentioned a little in today's debate. I also experience a generation of young people who are really under pressure. They are under pressure from the expectations we have of them, they are under pressure from the political reforms that have been made, among other things. The education ceiling, and then I think they are generally stressed about the character race and the world they are experiencing today, even if they are well and better than many other generations. We've been thinking about a lot in the SF, what you can do about this, and we've been proposing this calm reform, where you need to prevent the pressure on young people. But perhaps you can also do something else, you can also heal them earlier, and I actually heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen talk about that too. For this reason, we have been working for a long time and in several municipalities to introduce free psychological assistance for young people. The SFU has fought for this and we have fought for it, and I believe that DSU has actually fought for it, and that is why I want to know whether Mrs Mette Frederiksen thinks it is a good idea to introduce free psychological assistance for young people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104329	Two things: firstly, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased that there are many of us who are concerned about this issue, and I think that is also crucial to finding solutions. Secondly, I would like to warn against thinking that this is only a matter of legislation, because I have to say both as a politician, but also as a normal person in Denmark and as a mother, that I think there are other things that are also involved. I do not think we should underestimate the fact that we have the first generation of young people who live a very large part of their lives on social media. The pressure there and the competition there, I think, are at least as potentially harmful and challenging as the pressure and competition that may be elsewhere. So it is really just an appeal for us to keep our eyes open to the various things that I think are involved. With regard to free psychological assistance, I think there are young people who need to be able to come to a psychologist, but I myself do not believe that psychological assistance is the answer to all the challenges, and I would really like to warn against turning all our young people into those who need professional help, let alone sick people, because I do not think that is right either. Some people need psychological help and assistance, but I do not think that that applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104439	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104442	Thank you for your answer. I would actually like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen what is the difference between a young person breaking his leg and the psyche of a young person breaking his leg. Well, why is it that one should be free and the other shouldn't? In England, 500,000 English people have been offered free psychological assistance if they have been distressed and it has been said that it will be self-financing in the long term. In more than 40 municipalities in Denmark, free psychological assistance has now been introduced for all young people because they believe that it has a preventive effect. Does Mrs Mette Frederiksen not think that introducing free psychological assistance for young people will help to prevent some of the young people from entering the psychiatric system, in other words to prevent them from becoming ill and to ensure that they receive the help they need early in the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104528	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104529	I think that some people can benefit from psychological assistance and help, but I think it is a wrong place to look if you think that's the answer to everyone. I think as much that we need to establish strong, good relationships between children and adults, which should not always have a professional touch. I think we are simply at a time when very many children and young people in Denmark lack time, proper time, together with adults: their parents, their grandparents, but also others. And we are now beginning to see some new projects grow up, such as headspace, which is based on young people for young people's help and which is based on volunteering, and I think that is an equally good answer for many people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104611	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104614	Thank you. I hope Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on her trip to Ærø, noticed that the ferry trip had become considerably cheaper, and she can of course thank the bourgeois government for that. If I can get some rest, I'd like to ask you about the green transition. After all, the government has presented a draft energy compromise, and we come up with a climate plan. No more than a week ago, we set aside a billion for more renewable energy, and today there is an agreement of 105 million for the expansion of solar cells. I just need to get some reports from the Social Democratic Party on what you want on that agenda yourself. I hear a lot of criticism, I hear a lot of complaining and pointing fingers, and that is also what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said in her rapporteur's speech today, but I did not hear anything concrete about what the Social Democratic Party wants. So I'd like to hear about it. If there is a global energy challenge, there will be a climate challenge, how much money will be given priority in the green transition, have we set ourselves climate targets for the future, which the government has?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104718	In fact, what is happening in the climate area in Denmark is remarkable, because for many years we have laboriously built up a leading position, which is in fact recognised in the rest of the world. We have come a very long way, and Danish companies, for a great many, are now living on being able to export the solutions needed to enable other countries too to adapt. Then we will have a new government, and it will then choose, it has to be said, to lower the level of ambition something, for example on the coastal mills, create doubts as to whether Denmark is a good country to invest in, and many of us think: Why really? Now that we have such a good starting point and we have such a good opportunity, should we not continue? In concrete terms, in addition to what I said in my speech about the fact that I believe that the whole issue of storage should be a central part of the future energy reconciliation, I also believe that investing more in green research is absolutely crucial. And then there are a number of other questions: How do we electrify more of our transport? This is one of the places where a great deal of CO2 is emitted We want the Togfonden DK and we also want to move on, for example in the electric car sector. And then there is the energy issue. We still have oil guys standing around in Denmark, whom we would like to replace by some better energy sources. I could go on like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104858	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104900	I think it must be clear to everyone that the President of the Social Democratic Party does not want to give any concrete information on what is going on in the green area. There is a parliamentary basis which one would like to satisfy and which I do not doubt has great green ambitions, but I have great doubts as to whether it will be addressed by the Social Democratic Party. So I would like to know why climate wasn't mentioned once in your so-called 2025 plan. In the draft budget that you presented on the second day, the climate is mentioned once, but no more money has been set aside for the green transition. Does it not sound hollow that the Social Democrats can only criticise and do not give an answer themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005104937	I think that we have presented a really good climate strategy in a common chronicle among the opposition parties, which both have a shorter aim than some of the changes we would have liked to have made now, and then a longer one. And then we are going to have to negotiate a new energy settlement, and there I would like to ask the rapporteur, who will then not have the floor, but it may be that we can talk about it during the day, if we should not make sure that it is broadly based and if we should not use the energy conciliation to take the next steps in the green area. Here again, I would like to draw attention to the transport sector, which is crucial to whether we can take the next steps. And there it is, among other things. It is a pity that there is so much opposition to the railway fund which, in addition to providing better transport around the country, will also ensure electrification of our rail network.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105026	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105033	Thank you. Infrastructure and motorways are very important issues. They are being debated a great deal, but as you know, words and talk do not do so; there is a need for concrete action. That is why, of course, I am also very pleased that we four parties in the blue camp have actually had money set aside now and made agreements, for example. the West Funen motorway and has also got something done by starting a lowering of the tariffs on Storebælt. So in concrete terms, we had agreements on it and had money set aside for it, so that we can, so to speak, get words into action. Then it will be interesting to see what the Social Democratic bid is actually in relation to infrastructure. We have been able to see such rather loose statements and reports about it, and the question is quite specific: how much money has the Social Democrats set aside in their plans for example? the Funen motorway and infrastructure in general? There is no point in seeing anything, so I have to look at the fact that you have $0. In addition to the infrastructure of the social democracy plan. Why? Or how much money has the Social Democratic Party actually dropped? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105144	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105145	I welcome the question because we do not usually spend so much time discussing transport policy when we have opening or closing debates, and that is something that is really important for many people. Congratulations on the deal you've made. You might well say congratulations on the agreement that some of us made shortly before it in a different contractual context. As far as transport is concerned, we actually have a long tradition of being able to work together widely in the Folketing to make the necessary investments, and I expect we can do so in the future too. And our starting point is well known. There are some places where we need to expand and renovate roads; there are other places where we need to ensure that we have good public transport. And we must weigh up those considerations against each other, both in terms of road versus public transport, but also in terms of what some parts of the country need most. We have been able to find out for many years, and I certainly expect we can do that in the future too. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105246	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105249	Well, the answer was kind of like it used to be a lot of words, a lot of talk. I shall be brief: I can only note that the Social Democratic Party has not set aside any money for infrastructure and motorways. So the question is quite precisely: how much money has the Social Democratic Party dropped in its plans for infrastructure? And if it only stays at the talking again, I'm gonna have to consider it 0 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105316	We have put forward a 2025 plan, and it has, it can be said, the building blocks, that we must first and foremost ensure that we have the money to develop, but also to maintain the welfare society that we have today. We need to continue to support growth, we need to be able to upgrade Danish employees. In addition, we have set aside a reserve for money, resources for the many other tasks that are also ahead of us. And it is clear that investment in roads and traffic is important in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105353	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105357	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for her speech. I think, however, that there are a whole lot of primary school teachers who would like us to look back a little, back to 2013, when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment and passed a law here in the Danish Parliament, which ended the lockout of the many primary school teachers who had been kicked out of primary school. The law then also introduced new working time rules whereby teachers were forced to work more for the same money. And much about the long course of events suggests, I think, to many primary school teachers that they might never really have a chance; that something was planned in advance; that KL, their employer, might even have been promised that the government would intervene in favour of KL. So they did not have to give the teachers anything at all, so there was no free debate at all. We know that the reform of primary schools was planned and that it was planned to be financed by changing working time rules. It's always been open. We have also been able to read that the former Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, was able to speak in the Chamber. And now there is also a former minister, Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who says it was all positively planned. Can't Mrs Mette Frederiksen understand that there are some primary school teachers out there who may be a little bit bitter and find it difficult to believe the promises that this wasn't an agreed game?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105530	Thank you. There's a bit of unrest down the ranks... a little bit of unrest. We've got such fine rooms in the back where there's plenty of room for dialogue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105543	Now the Prime Minister has come too. That's good. I would say that it is clear that the teaching conflict and the whole discussion about what was going on at the time are something that takes up a great deal in many people. Of course, it also gives food for thought to how such a process is approached in political terms. It does with me, and I think it does with others. At the same time, I would like to say that the fact that there is a right of negotiation in the labour market can lead to a conflict and that it can also lead to an intervention in that conflict with legislation from here on. It is all part of the Danish model. Sometimes it almost sounds as if a government intervenes in a conflict in the labour market is wrong. It is part of the Danish model. It is no secret that we wanted a better primary school. Nor is it a secret that we wanted teachers to spend more time with children, because we actually believe that it has a value that teachers and students spend more time together. But the fact that there was to be such a big master plan is not something I recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105657	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105702	Thank you. I have read Mrs Mette Frederiksen's words as well. My question was, of course, whether Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not understand that it seems to the teachers that it was all agreed. Because it is absolutely true that a potential intervention is part of the Danish model. I think all the primary school teachers are well aware of this. What is their appeal is, of course, that if everything had been agreed in advance and their counterpart had been promised that a unilateral intervention would be to the advantage of the other party, the employer, that is, the KL, they would never have a chance. And it's certainly not part of the Danish model that you don't have a chance as an employee, employee in this country. Not at all. So just so that we can make it clear that teachers were not chanceless, can we not confirm or perhaps as Minister for Employment then point out where the draft law put forward took account of teachers and confirm once and for all that it was not unilaterally in favour of KL? For that is what many teachers would like to see and hear from Mrs Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105810	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105813	If we remember what happened at the time, then there was, in fact, a similar debate on high school, which ended with a completely different result. In other words, where the parties actually landed an agreement that I assume both sides could see themselves in. This took place in parallel with the debate in the field of primary education. This shows, of course, that two courses, which are essentially about the same thing, namely teaching, and how much time there should be between teacher and pupil or teacher and pupil, could have two very different courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105845	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105848	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur mentioned cancer. I also noticed that the rapporteur mentioned that one in four cancer patients does not receive treatment in time. I would like to say that I share that concern. If you look at the picture out there, you have to say that there are some regions where things are going very well, but there are also regions where things are going less well. In the Capital Region, where the rapporteur's party colleague is at the helm, the picture is about Pink Saturday on Saturday, where we focus on breast cancer. Unfortunately, only 54 per cent are treated within the course. So I actually share the point of departure that we need to do better. That is also why the government has set aside 2.2 billion. kr. to a Cancer Plan IV. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur if I now sense that this health issue is at the heart of the social democracy, how much the social democracy has devoted to health care next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005105952	I think we need to give more priority to our health services. But I also think we need to have a discussion with each other on how to do this in the best possible way. One is, one might say, the direct resources, where we have a different economic policy from the government and where we want to spend more money on welfare. This is also quite well known to the rapporteur. But the next thing is how we ensure that our employees out there actually have time for their patients. I am incredibly pleased that a majority has ensured that we can now abolish the productivity requirement as early as next year. I think that is a wise decision, because what I sense very strongly when I am around the health service are some employees whose professionalism is towering and who want all the best but who are simply too busy. It should then, I think, be followed by a proper welfare economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, and I think that is not at least as important, but it is also important that we make progress with the away reform we have proposed, including in the field of health. Because a lot of bureaucracy has been done, and I think many of our employees are going to spend too much of their time during a working day on something that is not directly relevant to the patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110108	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110109	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur mentions the productivity requirement. I also took note of the fact that in one of the answers to this question, the rapporteur said that it was not intended to introduce green harvesting methods. But that was exactly what the Nyrup government 1999 was in charge of when the productivity requirement was introduced. It was just a green harvesting method. However, I am pleased that the Social Democrats have also become wiser. I note that the rapporteur does not answer my question. It is completely like in the area of infrastructure: no money has been set aside, either for health or infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110145	Well may I not say this in relation to the requirement of productivity if nothing else, so just for the sake of history writing: Well, years ago we had massive problems with waiting lists in the Danish health service. There were massive problems. And there it was right, and so it is true, across political disagreements, to manage our health services harder and tighter simply to ensure that more operations were carried out; that waiting lists were closed; that more people could survive the disease they had or the diagnosis they might have been diagnosed. That is why you can have a tool that, at one point in our society's development, can be the right thing to do. When some of us have gone away from the idea of a productivity requirement lately, it is because we are now in a new situation where we have some employees who have difficulty keeping up with out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110234	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110240	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech made a problem that the citizens of Ærø do not get as much out of the government's proposed tax relief in crowns and ears as the citizens of Thisted or Slagelse, in Vejle, Aarhus or Gladsaxe. This is simply because the citizens of Ærø do not pay as much tax as the citizens of these municipalities I have just mentioned. In Denmark, we levy taxes as a percentage of income, and if the income is not so high, you will of course not get so much out of it in kroner and ear when the tax on income is lowered. But now Mrs Mette Frederiksen has a unique opportunity to explain to the citizens of Ærø how much they would get out of social democracy's tax policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110325-2	That's a strange question, isn't it? And it is also a fantastic logic to put down the question, because you choose for yourself what tax policy you are pursuing. In other words, the rapporteur makes it almost sound as if, as a government, we are forced to pursue an economic policy which is not for the benefit of those who live on the islands. It's a choice we make ourselves. It is interesting to see, when I sit and look down over the Danish map, that it is precisely Langeland, Ærø, Samsø and Bornholm who get the least out of the government's tax plan. And if I look at the municipalities where everything else has to be said that people have a relatively good economy, I see that that is where you get the most out of tax reform. Because you could do it differently. And perhaps it would be most important to ensure that we have funding and that we have the economy for some of the tasks that I think are more important to carry out than to give some tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110424	Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110425	See, it was a long lubrication which, in a sense, just resulted in the citizens of Ærø getting less out of the social democracy's tax policy than the government's tax policy. That's the way it is. Last night the Committee on Finance received an answer to a question I had put to the Ministry of Finance on the draft budget of the Social Democratic Party. And to boil it down, the conclusion is that social democracy's policy overall affects people in the way that it hits employment and increases the pressure on capacity in Denmark, in other words puts too much steam on boilers, which leads to unsustainable wage increases etc., just as we saw in the 00s. How does the policy benefit the citizens of Ærø?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110510	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110511	I would like to say very directly that I think it is economically irresponsible that, at a time when we are lacking labour and when we are lacking young people taking training, the government chooses to save on education and tax relief. I think that is economically irresponsible. Now I have not had the opportunity to see the concrete answer. If it is the same old lube that education pulls people out of the workforce, then I have to give the same well-known social democratic answer, namely that I would rather invest in giving people a stronger foundation than I would make an immediate expansion of the workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110550	Thank you. That was the last question and the last answer. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005110607	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. It was a beautiful day on Tuesday at all. We had the pleasure of getting into this renovated Parliament Hall, a Parliament Hall, which has not only become better to look at for us, but also more accessible to disabled people. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party think this is very important, and we hope that it can also be a message to all other parts of Danish society that greater accessibility is ensured for our disabled fellow citizens. I want them to feel equal. Prior to the visit to the Assembly Hall and the Prime Minister's speech, most of us were in church for service. We heard a little about the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and we heard a little about what kind of basis Denmark is based on, what kind of things might make us have the values and attitudes that we have here in 2017 and why it expresses a community and cohesion. We sang, in Denmark I was born, and it was very, very beautiful. I could really unfamiliar with all Danes to experience what we experienced on Tuesday. It certainly gave me a reminder of the basis on which Denmark is based and why it is so important to hold on to it, so that we can also deliver it to the generations that will come in many years' time. They also deserve to live in a safe Denmark, which is carried by common values and common cohesion. When I heard the Prime Minister's speech there were many good things in the speech, and I will also return to some of them I also got a little healthy skepticism, I think I can say, and it was in relation to this that politicians need to say where they have been around Denmark. I mean, we came to Esbjerg, we came to Thisted, we were going to Vejle, we were going to Hillerød, we were going to Aarhus, we were going to Nordfyn, and now we even start here with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and now we are going to Ærø. I sat there on Tuesday and thought of Kjeld Heick's fantastic Ganløse-Vanløse-, which sounds like Kristian Thulesen Dahl singing • We are going to Ganløse, Vanløse, Boulum and Skovlund/ Håstrup, Tåstrup and Thårs/ Svinninge, Svanninge, Virum and Farum/Nykøbing Falster and Mothers. You can already sense how things are going on in the heads of all of us. So it may well be that there are municipal elections here on 21 November and that you are a little extra eager to say: See how well I know Denmark and all the leaders and edges of Danish society. That's nice. I take it, of course, as an expression of a genuine commitment by the Prime Minister to a Denmark in balance, that we have a Denmark that is connected, where, wherever you live in this beautiful country, you have proper conditions. We in the Danish People's Party would really like to help ensure that this happens in the practical world as well. Therefore, when the Prime Minister talks about a new relocation exercise in which jobs are transferred to the whole of Denmark, I think it is very good. We are expecting a government play in December, and we look forward to discussing such a new round of relocations with the government. The most important thing in relation to this, however, is the mentality, in that we have people working in the public sector, in the service of the state, throughout Denmark, so they see Denmark as everything, it is, and do not see Udkantsdanmark too much from Copenhagen. In fact, this is also true of ensuring a Denmark in balance in relation to the compensation. We've discussed compensation before. In the past, the Minister of Finance has announced a slightly larger compensatory reform, and we hope that there will be initiatives to ensure that there are also more economic conditions for the municipalities so that they can provide a proper service to the citizens. This applies, among other things, to: in the care of the elderly. It has to be done, for example. there are areas in the country where you have low taxes and high services and elsewhere have high taxes and low services, so that where they have to pay the highest municipal taxes, they actually have the poorest care for the elderly. That's not gonna work. Every elderly person in this country deserves a dignified care and care when they need it. We have to make sure of that. In health we took initiatives when we laid down the counties and county tax, which ensured that the regions came to the world with a uniform health contribution, where all Danes, wherever they live in the country, pay the same for our health care. We want a uniform and good health offer to the Danes, no matter where they live. As far as health is concerned, a lot of things have happened, as the Prime Minister has also mentioned, since 2001. Many good things have happened: the fight against waiting lists, new hospitals, cancer packages, and we have fought for better conditions for older medical patients over the years. However, there is one particular thing about the hospitals, which must of course be mentioned in such an opening debate, and this is the happy agreement that we got in place yesterday, where we decided jointly to remove the requirement for productivity and savings, as has been formulated in the hospitals from 1 January 2018. I think that is a very good thing, because it may have had its worth in the past, but we must also recognise that it is now working in a way that simply wears too much down the health professionals. And it is important that we listen to the staff who are really the crunch in our welfare society, the staff who are completely in the front line in relation to the Danes who need help, and that is among other things. our health professionals, and they've been yelling at us about this austerity requirement, and now we're taking the consequences of it and removing it from January 1, 2018. I'm really glad. The employees are also the convent when we talk about other areas. I mentioned the elderly area with the care of the elderly before. I just want to say that we must have a good society in the future too. When, for example, At a care center more elderly people come with dementia, it may well happen that they are turned upside down day and night, and then it is no use that there may be only one employee at work during the night hours. Because when there is one elderly citizen who unfortunately because of illness runs around the hall and disturbs all the others, then you cannot deal with someone else who needs to go to the bathroom. So, there are simply some changed assumptions. There must be money in the future to deliver the proper welfare to our elderly who need help, and there we know there are bigger tasks ahead of us than we have now. I hope you don't put too much into the opening speech about the elderly area. I just think that was because there wasn't so much time and neither was there in the legislative catalogue. It is not, of course, the area of the Minister for the Elderly which sees the most initiatives as a matter of priority. I think there is a statement. But that is not, of course, because there is no high priority for the elderly in the government. I am sure of that. Otherwise, at least we in the Danish People's Party will have to make it clear to the government that it will. Compared to the case of employees who are the crank, it is also the case in the police ranks. After all, it is the police who, on many sides, create the security that we need when insecurity is raging because of burglar crime or assault or terror, given the terrorist attacks that are there and that people are insecure because of. We need to help a pressured police force, both with the Home Guard, with politicians and what else we have taken of initiatives, but also with more police officers. We get a West Danish educational institution, which allows us to take more into the school. We must also ensure working conditions that are good, also at the border. It is a border control which more and more people in this House recognize will be of a more long-term nature. One might almost get the idea that it looks like it's a permanent border control that we're getting support for in here. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very nice. One might at least ask: how long can something be temporary before it becomes permanent? However, when it becomes more permanent in nature, we also think that the physical installations at the border should be of a nature, so that the employees who have to deal with border controls actually have proper working conditions. This is something we will put on the agenda this autumn, and there are some initiatives there that I think are important in order to ensure effective border controls and to ensure that the people who handle it for us, that is, the front row out there, actually have better working conditions. The Prime Minister mentioned our community: freedom, rights, opportunities, that is, everything that is important in terms of our common welfare. It is, of course, a balance that must be found, also in relation to the tax cuts that the government would very much like. For we must be sure that the obligations we have towards each other in our welfare society can actually be lifted, because we therefore also want the strong Danish community in the years to come and for our descendants. Then the Prime Minister came in his speech with a sentence which I hurried to write down and which I thought was particularly good, and it said: we must take control of who comes here. Quote out. Taking control of who comes here, I would like to sign for that, and I would certainly like to hold the Prime Minister to that. That's a fantastic sentence. Because if you're going to ensure that, it's about how to control immigration. It is about having to have a border control where, moreover, you can check who comes here. After all, it is a matter of making rules in the European Union that enable us to control more ourselves who comes here, so that we do not have people who come and study and then run without paying their SU debts, which we have seen examples of. Was it 123 million? kr., we lost in that account? Such examples simply do not work. There is no doubt that the biggest single problem we have is immigration, especially that of Middle Eastern and North African countries. It has created the parallel societies that we must have done away with. But it also requires a long cool move, compared with how few people should be able to come here especially from those areas of the world. It also requires that the criminal foreigners we have can be more deported. This was also a point raised by the Prime Minister, and we would very much like to continue working with the government, because it requires a firm break with the interpretation of the conventions. Finally, I would just like to mention in connection with Brexit and the European Union that I hope, moreover, that the Prime Minister's statement that it is trade with other countries that enrich us is also contagious in the way the government wants to tackle Brexit. I simply cannot understand why it is said to the British that the condition for us to make free trade with them is that they also accept free immigration from European countries. Why on earth do you make that interconnection when you know that it is trade that is essential for us to be well together and to be richer nations? Why, then, is it bound up with acceptance of free immigration? There are many things you can address in such an opening speech. I hope that we will get on with this on the issues that are there. Finally, on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, I should just like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that things are going well in Denmark. Danish economy is strong. Since the parliamentary elections, 103,000 more private jobs have been created, and the number of people on public support is the lowest in a decade. The Folketing stresses the ambition to make Denmark a stronger country with better conditions for growth, prosperity and welfare. It has to pay to work. At the same time, it is essential to ensure a balance between Denmark and Denmark. The asylum number in the first half of 2017 was the lowest since 2008. Parliament considers it essential that the number of asylum seekers should continue to be kept at a very low level and that efforts to combat parallel societies should be strengthened. The Danish Parliament notes that one of the ways to ensure growth and prosperity is that more Danes get to work and that core welfare is strengthened. A particularly important part of the core welfare is the hospitals where the employees can deliver the best quality to patients. For this reason, the Danish Parliament welcomes the 2% productivity requirement. shall be repealed in 2018... V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20171005111748	Thank you. We shall then proceed to brief remarks from the rapporteur's line. Sir. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005111752	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, and also for letting the mild voice sound in song beyond the Assembly Hall. Actually, I was really glad to hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl put so much emphasis on saying that we must take good care of our welfare society, that there is a health service where you run really, really fast, that there is an elderly care where there is a need for more dignity, and that we also need to strengthen our police. When I mention this, it is because there are financial law negotiations just around the corner and the government has also proposed that historic tax concessions be granted. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about this: When you have to be able to afford to ensure welfare and I think the Danish People's Party has played out that you want to have a public growth of 0.8%. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's opinion back to giving tax relief for the figures we know today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005111858	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005111859	Well, that's quite right from the point of view of sir. Nicolai Wammen, that there isn't so much money left if you look at the calculations like that immediately. After all, we went to the polls for real growth in the public sector on that little technical figure 0.8%, and it wasn't caught out of the air. It was, in fact, a figure that, after the financial crisis, we agreed with the Left and the Conservatives on the need for the public sector to be able to cope when, among other things, there was one. There are more elderly people who we want to care for properly, and we have held on to that. So there has been such a fairly stable attitude on the part of the Danish People's Party. Other parties have then had different views on how the public sector might develop, but we still have the same attitude, and that is what we are going to go to the negotiating room with. So it is clear that what is most important to us is that the Danes know exactly what we stand for when we go into the room, and then we can be measured and weighed by how well we do our work, if we come out with an agreement, and if we do that, I don't know. Because that's right, as Mr. Wammen mentions that it is negotiations that are before us, and we will certainly have the certainty, even in the context of the work that is being done on the budget law, that there are sufficient resources to deal with the areas I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112008	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112009	I think that sounds really good. Because if what the Danish People's Party sees as necessary is to ensure that there are resources for our older people, for health, for police and for all the other very important tasks that we need to solve in our society and that it has to be done before tax cuts are granted, then in our view this is a very sensible way of doing things. Therefore again: So, if you have to secure the care of the elderly, the health care, more policemen, what is there then just such a blow on the bag • seen with the eyes of the Danish People's Party back to tax breaks?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112052	Well, both in the 2015 parliamentary elections but also continuously since then, we have done everything we could to talk down the expectations of major tax cuts. We have done just that because it is clear that when we give priority to doing things together in relation to our elderly people, to our police, to our health sector, etc., we cannot point to large amounts of resources for tax cuts. That is why, of course, it is quite a challenge in terms of how to get things going, and we are just advocating our views. We think that the things that have been done so far are very good. In other words, the agreement that had been made on registration fees, which had also been introduced, that the state, when it was fully phased in, should have a lower revenue, so that there was less money to do good with, for example. For the elderly, for health and so on, we changed it so that it is now funded and so that money cannot be taken from the areas for the exercise we are doing with regard to car taxes. This is what we are trying to do, and it is, of course, to ensure that the money is available in the public sector which we believe is necessary for things to be coherent in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112204	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112206	Thank you very much. I couldn't help but sit around and cheer myself a little bit that Mr. Nicolai Wammen allows himself to demand figures from other parties. It's a bit of a geological fragment from a transparent domicil. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, another Social Democrat, has proposed at the Congress of Social Democrats a broad foreign policy agreement, such across the middle, understood, and thus with the Social Democratic Party, in Danish politics rather than the cooperation and cohesion between the government and the Danish People's Party, which, moreover, we very much appreciate. Thinks sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl that such a possible agreement with the left in Danish politics will lead to a tighter immigration policy, to an unchanged immigration policy or to a relaxed foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112303	Well, I consider it somewhat like Mrs Mette Frederiksen's attempt to say something to the Radicals, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, etc. I guess it's more like a game that runs between those parties. Because if you imagined it as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. It is clear that the Social Democrats have done a great deal recently to send a message to us that in the field of foreigners they will pursue a policy as strict as the rest of us, and I would like to say here from the platform today that I am extremely pleased about that. The more there will help to ensure that we pursue an enormously tight immigration policy in terms of managing things in the future, the better. What remains is, of course, that the parties around the Social Democratic Party openly say that they want something quite different, and that is, of course, quite a dilemma. But I think that is a good thing, the more parties that acknowledge the need to pursue a very, very strict immigration policy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112411	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112412	I should have been a little more specific, too, because I could look at Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's cheerful expression that he almost perceived it as a rhetorical question. It was not really as caricature meant as it was perceived. Because if we take the Social Democratic Party alone with a party that declares that we are opposed to the benefits of integration, are we going to be a tighter or a sluggish immigration policy if we get the Social Democrats involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112441	But it is clear that if the prerequisite for making such an agreement is to weaken some of the instruments we are using today to ensure that a clear message is also sent out into the world that it is therefore not so lucrative to come to Denmark either, it is a weakening. That is why it will, of course, require acceptance of the foundations that are now in place. It is also a question of that is what we have been most worried about when it comes to making such an agreement • whether it can in any way bind in relation to the future. Because it is in the field of foreigners that some of the initiatives we have taken here in recent years could not have been imagined that we could have obtained a majority a few years ago, and that is why, of course, we must be able to tighten where possible in 2.4 or 6 years' time. Of course, an agreement would also have to include that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112528	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112530	In the Enhedslisten, we do not think there is any room for tax relief. If we had to implement our tax policy, we would be making a tax change where those who have received tax rebates over the past many years • more than 15 years • contributed something more to the common fund, while those who have the least would benefit from it. We'd do it by withdrawing the personal allowance. That would come to people on transfer income, for example. folk pensioners, and those with the lowest incomes to benefit. And when we talk about the lowest incomes, we talk about those who make up to $300,000. Before taxes. However, when tax cuts are presented in the government's tax proposals, it has to be said that once again there is nothing for those who have the very least in our society. Again, for example, stays. The folk pensionists cheated. And my question is actually: how is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is saying that something is once again being presented where those who have the least in our society are to be cheated when tax cuts are to be distributed, which are financed by the general increase in welfare in our society, but which then benefit those who have much, while those who have the least, nothing? Will the Danish People's Party accept to be included in such a tax agreement, where those who have the very least, for example. National pensionists, don't get anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112647	I think you know the Danish People's Party extremely badly, if you think we are going to a debate and then don't think about the people's pensionists. Of course we are. Among pensioners, there are also very different economic conditions in relation to what they have of opportunities. But, you know, I may not have a crush on Enhedslisten's big tax restructuring, but it's because we actually took the starting point when we went to the 2015 elections that we wouldn't suggest that there were some taxes that had to be raised beyond corporate tax, which we said could finance some things. It had been put down under the government supported by the Enhedslisten during the last parliamentary term. But otherwise we did not propose tax increases. If there is an opportunity to make tax cuts, it is clearly our message that it should benefit people with lower incomes. For us, it is very much to be others than those who are in the labour market, and they are, of course, them, Mr President. Rune Lund is referring to in her question. So, of course, we are very much on the same lines. It can be said that it is a little conflicting with the view that what we have to do alone in relation to possible reliefs is to ensure that those in the labour market get more out of it, because of course there is also a thought here about cohesion: how do we make it all work together? If some people feel that they are being run over and never take part in a possible recovery, etc., then of course it is something that tears the cohesion into pieces.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112812	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112815	I can confirm that it is not always possible for the Enhedslisten to prevent social democracy from making accidents. Unfortunately, this is a fact in Danish politics. On the other hand, I would like to follow up my question and ask whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can guarantee
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112852	On principle, I am not going to stand here and guarantee anything, that is, the one thing about putting one guarantee after another. You must know as a Dane what the Danish People's Party stands for, and then you can measure and weigh us on the agreements we may make if necessary. Are we known when we make agreements to think about the pensioners? Yeah, I guess we are. Will we also be known for this in the future? Yes, we will. So is the probability that we are going to make political agreements where there is no way that people's pensionists are also being thought about? No, that's not very likely.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112923	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005112925	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I was also in the palace church on Tuesday, and sometimes I can be surprised how one hears the same words differently or perhaps understands the same words differently. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl enthusiastic about the Bishop's speech. I was also excited, but I was excited because I thought it embraced the diversity that we also have in Denmark. One of the things the Bishop said was, for example, that even if you are an atheist, you are not just tolerated in a society based on Christian values, no, you are a fully-fledged member. And the same goes for those whose faith is not identical to that of the majority. He also said that this is the case because humanity, dignity and freedom are being increased by being divided, so that neither the ethnic Dane nor the alien in our country should be in doubt. I had to hear the speech afterwards, because I actually thought it was such a fine sermon he had so I wrote it down. It's not something I've found out right now. But I am just surprised that, on the one hand, one can speak enthusiasticly about this sermon and, on the other hand, as the Danish People's Party, have an overall attitude towards the strangers in our country, especially Muslims, that they should not be allowed to be here, that one wants to close the borders, that one does not want them to have Muslim free schools. How is it connected, that is, this Christian view of man, with the scepticism towards people who come to our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113051	After all, that completely confirms what I have said before, because the whole prerequisite for us to be a country that receives people from outside is, of course, with the starting point and the values, etc., that there is no doubt about what society we are, what we come from and what we stand for. It's important how many people have come here. If you don't believe that you can go out in parallel societies in Denmark and see that it doesn't work at all the way the bishop actually talked about the other day, then I think you should take Keld Heick's song and then go around to more places, i.e. perhaps to places other than those Keld Heick sings about. But the thing is, it is obvious that it is because we are the country we are and have come from where we have come. That is because Christian culture has been crucial. That is precisely why we can be a society where, of course, there is room for the atheist, for example. But if you imagine that there were most atheists, then we were another society. That is also the case with immigration. If there are a lot of people who think something quite different, then we will change the character as a society, then there will be a different basis for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113205	Thank you. I think I'll ask in another way. Now the Prime Minister said in his speech that we have already debated it, and it has also been heavily debated on Twitter • that integration has nothing to do with religion or skin color. Then there has subsequently been a debate on Twitter, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen was out saying that it had something to do with religion for her. That fight must be between them. But what does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl? Does integration have anything to do with religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113246	Yeah, of course it does. Well, I think it's so simple, because of course religion has something to do with integration. If you come to a country that is based on a religion other than that of your own, then it requires something very special for you to be successfully integrated. Then there are some who can find out, and there are some who certainly cannot find out. And that is what we see in our parallel societies today. If a religion demands a particular culture of food in institutions or demands certain rules for bathing in schools or what it does, and if, on the basis of one's religious beliefs, one asks for things to be arranged differently than they normally are in the country one has come to, then it is obvious that religion plays a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113335	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113338	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its support for the defence case. We do not entirely agree on the threat picture, where we conservatively wonder a little about the Danish People's Party's view of what is happening in Eastern Europe and Russia. However, in relation to the interior design of the Danish defence, I have the impression that we look very much alike at what we want of capacity and now we face some very important negotiations on defence. In this context, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party how much emphasis is placed on military service, which is one of the elements that has been discussed much in the press. It may fill a little more in the press, because there is a little disagreement, compared to how big an element it will be in the defence settlement, but it is an essential element. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl elaborates on how important it is for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113428	I am very pleased that we are also coming around the defence issue here today, so thank you for the question. In general terms, we must say that we want a strengthened defence and we want more resources to be provided. This is needed for many different reasons. And it is not the case that we are going to ignore the fact that Russia is very unstable and has a leader who can, of course, also pose a threat in different ways. It is more in terms of how we work with it that I think there is a different approach to it. However, with regard to military service, we want military service to be maintained as a basis for our defence, because it helps to strengthen diversity and public awareness and support for defence. And, of course, when we have it as our starting point, we also want military service to be increased, that is to say, more military service to come in, and that the length of time spent in military service is longer, so that we can actually get something out of it. This will also enable us to continue to use the conscripts once they have been sent home in some form of mobilisation unit. It also raises the sense of value that one has and the attachment that one then has to the defence. We think this is very, very important, and we hope that a future defence settlement will reflect that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113543-2	We are in complete agreement on this. After all, duty is something where you can get quite a bit of power for the money, because you don't have to pay the soldiers 365 days a year, but where they can perform other tasks when they are not needed for everyday life in peacetime. So I'm glad to hear that. We also look forward, of course, to being able to make a very good agreement with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113613	It can be said that the probability that we can do so is indeed increasing when the rapporteur of a government party also has that position. So it seems that we have almost got the concession in advance. And then I guess I'll have to come up with some other demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113626	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113629	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl spoke a lot about the need for staff, not least in the care of the elderly. Some of what is very clear, although the Prime Minister's words go quite well in Denmark, is that, whether it is the private or public sector, we are facing a massive shortage of labour. Already today, every other care centre lacks nurses, and the lack of SOSUs is greater now than it has been for 10 years; there are over 300 vacant posts. So it sounds great to be here promising more staff, but where are they supposed to come from? Where in the Danish People's Party's policy can you find • Whether it is a private company that wants to expand production, or an elderly centre that can make it better for the elderly to answer or just the seeds of an answer to where the hands should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113726	Of course, there are several options and thanks to Mr. Morten Østergaard for the question. To say that we do not have unemployment left in Denmark is probably a little wrong anyway. In other words, that a number of people have come to Denmark who live in our society and are not employed, you can probably sign it, that is to say that it is probably the same. So there is still work to be done to get people out of work into employment. There is also another possibility, which is that companies will be better placed to appreciate seniors in the labour market, as, thank God, more older people will be able to stay in the labour market if they are in demand. So you could see how to get started, and that is what we want you to do, not by forcing seniors to stay longer in the labour market, but by feeling in demand from companies. So there is also labour there. And then, like the third, there is the fact that there are more and more people who feel it is necessary because they are under pressure at work, so they get stressed and pressured and feel run over to go part-time. In other words, if jobs were to be created where it was more possible to be, then there would probably be more people who would stay full-time rather than part-time. So there is also a labour resource there. So, no, I'd say to Mr. Morten Østergaard, because I know that the next question to come concerns the fact that the only answer to this question from the Radicals is to increase immigration from outside. And no, it's not. We actually have resources in this society that we could use better.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005113849	But it's not just done with it, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It is true that I, the Radical Left and, I believe, the government on its good days too, think it would be wise to increase the opportunities to attract foreign labour. That is also what is massively demanded in the companies, who find it difficult to take the orders that they could otherwise have if production is to take place in Denmark. But that, sir. After all, Kristian Thulesen Dahl is aiming at, and as we also heard in the speech, not only is it not just to create a better space for more foreign labour, but also to prevent free movement from continuing, in other words, the possibility of recruiting from other EU countries must remain under the same conditions as today. We'll hear when mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl speaks warmly for a Danish scheme or the Brexit which Britain negotiates that the starting point is that there must be a stop to free movement. That's why I'd just like to ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to say once and for all that what you want is a fight with free movement and thus the opportunity to attract foreign labour from, for example, the United Kingdom. Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114002	We in the Danish People's Party want Denmark to decide who comes here. So, in the Danish People's Party, we want countries to be given self-determination over who is walking to their country. Does that mean that no one can come from outside? No, it doesn't. This means that the people we get here are sure we benefit from, and that means that they can also feel that they are coming because they are doing good. This means that all the places where immigration is used as a negative burden on Danish society, we can prevent it. And may I not just remind you that in the spring there was a report from the Ministry of Finance, which revealed a huge deficit on immigration to Denmark as a whole, a huge deficit. Should we not do something about it so that we ensure more that those who come here are actually those who contribute to Danish society, while the others can we prevent coming here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114047	At the moment, we also have a deficit of time when the speeches take so long. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114053	Yesterday I visited a large family in Givskud. Michelle and Henrik had a lot of kids, and they were really happy about that. As we have discussed the children's check and the deterioration of it, I have also received a lot of inquiries from Danish families who are affected by this. It is from Bettina and her husband who both work and have six children; from Susie and her husband, who both work, have six children and live in Odense. There are a great many other requests that I cannot refer to because the senders want to be anonymous, since they think the whole debate is becoming stigmatizing to them as large families. We've got a municipal overview that shows how this is going to affect us. And there we can see that precisely the municipalities that are hit hardest and where these families live are also the ones that get the most out of the government's announced tax cuts. It is municipalities such as Læsø, Lemvig, Ringkøbing-Skjern, Tønder etc. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl not that it is unreasonable for families to be punished in this way, while being some of those who get the least out of the tax cuts announced by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114206	Then we came to Givskud, too, that was nice to hear. So we get around the country more and more during the day, and that's the way it has to be. We could have gone to Varde, but Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen didn't come that far. I think that's where the Syrian family of 17 children came to. Anyway, there's so much. That is how you can visit different cities, depending on which example you want to use here in the opening debate. I just want to say that we in the Danish People's Party have had this on the program for years, election after election. So there has been no one left under the chair, compared to the fact that the Danish People's Party has wanted to make a number limit on how many children's cheques are paid out to. So it can come as no surprise to anyone that, of course, we think it is an option. Then, of course, the question is, what do you spend the money to get out of it? It is, of course, a question of negotiation and, of course, there may be a difference in the opinion of some parties that they will be granted tax relief to certain people, and then our view that it should strengthen the core welfare of our societies, for example. The care of the elderly, or what we need them for. But it is a difference that can exist and that we must, of course, discuss. But the very principle that we wanted to do this is clear. After all, we also helped to implement it before the 2011 elections. So, of course, it can't come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114315	With regard to the individual case of the family with the 17 children, I can say that they live in Sweden today. In fact, I find it shameful to use a single example of making general legislation that affects 100,000 families. But I'd like to hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's comment that his own former party, the Progress Party, during the Rio Bravo settlement in the 1980s replaced a personal allowance with a cheque. Does this not mean that what we are talking about today is not a subsidy but a compensation for a lost deduction and that this legislation actually steals a deduction that was once held as a right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114351	Okay, then we come not only to Givskud and Sweden, but also far back in time, and that's fair enough. Something must have succeeded if they moved to Sweden. Well, at least we've done something good. Well, I'm sorry. However, I would like to say that I understand that there are Danish families with more than three children who will, of course, be particularly affected by this and who think that they can find themselves in a difficult situation if they introduce it from one day to the next. So I fully agree to discuss whether we should look at how to phase in such a thing, in respect of those who, after all, have some existing conditions. I'd say that. That is not what we are discussing here. What was discussed in the question was, of course, whether we basically think it is right that a number limit should be introduced which should apply in the future. And we think so in the Danish People's Party, and we have had it on the programme for all the years I can remember back from my time in the Danish People's Party. So it doesn't surprise anyone. Everyone will be aware of this, who has wanted to know what we stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114451	Mrs. Christine Antorini, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114453	Thank you for the floor. One of the things we were a little surprised about in the Prime Minister's opening statement was the statement that integration has nothing to do with religion. In fact, we disagree with the Social Democratic Party. Integration also has something to do with religion, and we think it is quite unreasonable when we see that, for example, we see that there is a difference between religion and religion. girls at school, referring to their religion, are not allowed to be on equal terms with the boys. They cannot go to camp school, they must not have Danish friends, they must wear certain garments with reference to religion. Or when we see mothers who are not allowed to enter the labour market with reference to religion. So it also has something to do with integration. My question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is therefore, whether he agrees most with the Prime Minister's statement or with Mrs Mette Frederiksen's?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114539	Thank you for the question. The position of the Danish People's Party is crystal clear, and I expressed it earlier. We believe that religion plays a role in terms of the ability to integrate. I have explained in the past why we mean it. It is quite obvious that this is the case. I also think that the question should be passed on to the Prime Minister, who will be on the floor later, to hear whether the Prime Minister agrees that it plays a role or whether the Prime Minister believes that it has no role whatsoever in integration. I think we should know that. After that, it is possible, perhaps in a second round, to speak again if we need to clarify whether we consider ourselves most in agreement with the Prime Minister or Mrs Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114622	I would like to continue with regard to where the consensus is actually the greatest. We have been pleased to note that the Danish People's Party has been very firm that there should be a growth in public consumption, in fact 0.8%. We have also noted that the Danish People's Party is the only ones who have been invited into a negotiating room in relation to finance law, growth package, tax reform and other matters. That is why I need to hear the chairman of the Danish People's Party confirm that what you are going to the negotiations with is 0.8%. growth in public consumption is what we need to have a marked and solid result on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114656	Well, I can confirm that. What we went to the 2015 elections and what we have also made clear afterwards is, of course, that we believe that this is what is necessary to ensure that we can also jointly solve the tasks we would like to have done in this society. It is actually paradoxical that we should fight so much for it, because it was an assessment that we shared years ago with the Left and the Conservatives. So there must probably be some understanding in the negotiating room of our views when we come and say what we are doing, because at least in the past it has been common goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114732	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114735	Thank you very much. If I may follow up on the question that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's joy at Mette Frederiksen's announcement that she would follow a strict foreign policy if she were to gain government power. But I'm gonna ask you if mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl remembers what Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in 2010. She said that we, the Social Democratic Party, will not relax foreign policy. I would not dream of moving towards a more relaxed policy, which I believe would be detrimental to integration and, moreover, to the Socialists. So you can drop that thought if you're sitting on the left. Subsequently, at least according to Mr. Morten Østergaard, Social Democracy Foreign Policy 45 times. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl remember the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114827	Yes, unfortunately I can do that very well, and it shudders to me just at the thought of both what happened then, but also if it should happen again. That is also why I think it is really interesting that those parties, in particular the Radicals, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, obviously want a completely different immigration policy, which, of course, leaves Denmark far more free from people from countries that are very, very difficult to integrate into Danish society. It will be deeply, deeply damaging, it will escalate the number of parallel societies, it will make it harder to make things work in Denmark. It will blow up the sense of community and cohesion that we otherwise have in Danish society. It really is a frightening idea that it had to happen again, as happened in 2011, when the promise prior to the elections was that a strict immigration policy would be maintained, which we had jointly conducted in the 00s. Then the opposite happened after the 2011 elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114925	Thank you. Well, now that we heard Helle Thorning-Schmidt make a promise and then make the diametrically opposite, how can Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danes then believe in Mrs Mette Frederiksen when she comes with something that simply sounds like an echo from the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005114943	But it is because we must both live in this situation that we now have decisive influence over the government that sits, but also with the risk that things can change and that there are suddenly some others. That is why, of course, we want to do everything we can to get the Social Democratic Party to make it so incontrovertible to the Danish people that it will not be possible to pursue a relaxed policy on foreigners and that it will actually be the case in the future. We have to see if we can do that. But it is simply because we do not believe that we can afford to have four-year periods like this between those in which we have decisive influence, in other words where things are relaxed and where immigration policy is once again not under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115023	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115025	Thank you. I think there could be reason to welcome the fact that the Social Democracy and the DF have managed to put an end to the government's plans to make top tax concessions and to raise the retirement age. But now we are again trying to make top tax reductions by the back way, by raising the ceiling for the employment allowance. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees with the Social Democratic Party that it is actually making top tax concessions through the back door and whether the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party, is also against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115106	First of all, I am very pleased with the things we can say together that have been pushed through in relation to some of the initiatives that have otherwise been taken. And in relation to the top tax relief, we were initially pleased when we heard that it was from the Foreign Minister who was on television saying that it was now with top tax reliefs removed from the table. But it is true that when we saw the proposal that came, there were top tax concessions, but in that version the so-called ceiling on the employment allowance has been removed, as Mr. Mogens Jensen is talking about, and then it will have the same effect as a top tax relief of well over 2.7%. Our position on this issue remains unchanged. Whether you call it one or the other and whether the child has one or the other name, we do not think that the time has come for tax relief to be given to those who earn the most. In other words, they have received tax concessions in different versions over the last 8-10 years, under changing governments, and we can get deeper into that if there is a desire to do so. But now we must also say that it is also a question of fairness, and if there is room for tax cuts, we think, as has been said many times, that they should then be given to those with lower incomes. So it should be them who are next.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115215	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that, and the reason why I am pleased about it is that I have seen that the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur is, in fact, open to raising the ceiling to the top tax limit. If it happened, according to the Treasury's own figures, it would give a HK's 0 kroner, a LO's 240 kroner. and a director up to DKK 5,120. in tax relief, and this would really be a top tax relief. But I can hear from the President that the view of the Danish People's Party is that this is not being done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115258	What is important to me is that the Danes know what the Danish People's Party stands for when we enter a negotiating room, and then you can measure and weigh us if we achieve a result, how that result is and to what extent we have got our policy implemented. The answer to Mr. Mogens Jensen on the question of whether we want top tax relief is crystal clear, regardless of whether you call it top tax relief or whether you call it something else: No! We believe that if there is money for tax cuts, they should go to people with lower incomes, that is where we want to target any tax cuts. That is the policy with which we go to the negotiating room, and we hope, of course, that our views will be won in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115334	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115336	Thank you. Now it has been revealed that the government's tax proposals completely ignore, among other things. 1.1 million Danish folk pensioners. They will again have nothing, just as they have not received anything from the last long series of tax agreements, including a series in which the Danish People's Party has participated. But it is actually worse than that, because it may be that it is the people's pensioners who are going to finance the tax rebates for some of the wealthiest Danes, because it is clear from this tax agreement that it has to be financed by finding and holding now well fixed 5,5 billion. kr. by adjustments in the transfer system. This is the same as, and I have it from a reply from the Ministry of Finance, that every old-age pensionist has to deliver more than DKr 6 000 if that is where the money is to be found. We cannot be told because no one from the government will tell us where the money will come from, other than that it will come from the transfer system. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to ask whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party might help to calm down the insecurity of the country's folk pensioners and of other groups, students, early retirement workers and those affected by the disease, by making it clear and guaranteeing that, and here I actually think it is very reasonable to ask for a guarantee, although I know that the rapporteur is not very much in favour of the fact that these broad groups are not the ones who are going to pay for these tax rebates.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115505	It's more because I know that Mr. Pelle Dragsted would like to follow into the negotiating room, but we reserve the right to negotiate, and then we can be judged on the outcome that we might come out with if we succeed in reaching an agreement. Do we have any disappointment plans to start hacking into the beneficiaries of the transfer income so that people's pensioners are going to pay too much tax relief to rich people in this society? No, we certainly haven't. On the contrary, we have proposed as an element, for example. to abolish the licence. Even if there are pensioners who also pay half a licence because they have a really bad economy, that would bring the pensioners joy. I could also mention here that, if you have money to do well, you could consider whether you should do something about the electricity tax. So it is easy to link things up and take initiatives that can both have a social perspective but also benefit people with lower incomes who are not in the labour market. This is the reason why these 1.1 million pensioners, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentions, is not included in this; it is therefore because the plan that has been put forward is about giving people in employment reliefs. Of course, we want to find methods so that we can spread it out, so that among other things. pensioners also benefit from the things we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115625	What has been the problem with all the previous tax reforms since the mid-00s is that they were about making it more expensive to become unemployed, you might say, and therefore people like this became people. folk pensionists most often passed over. But what I was actually asking was not so much what you would like to spend the money on, but more where the money should come from. What the government says is that you want them, among other things. I'm gonna come up with the principles of earning and the children's check. And anyone who knows just a little bit about the national economy knows that there is no 5 billion. kr. That is why I think it is actually fair to ask the rapporteur of the party that has to negotiate this agreement whether it is not possible to make it clear and say to early retirement pensioners, folk pensioners and students: the Danish People's Party will not help you pay for tax rebates that go primarily to those who have the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115721	I actually answered that question. On the question of whether we went into the negotiating room, starting from the fact that people's pensioners had to pay a tax relief to high-paid workers who are in work, the answer is clear: no, we do not want that. And then I will mention examples of actions that we will then make, which, contrary to what I have said, will also ensure that, for example, the old-age pensionist will benefit from it. It is true that we have a discussion about how work should be worthwhile and that there must be a difference between, for example, work. to be on cash benefits or on cash benefits and in employment without earning too much on the labour market. Of course, if you are going to do it differently, you can do it in a different way. This is done by granting tax relief to those on the labour market who have low incomes. It's one exercise. Something else, of course, is, and I fully agree with that, where the money comes from and whether it comes from, for example, the pensioner. It is not the starting point of the Danish People's Party that they should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115812	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115814	Thank you. After all, there is a lot of talk at the moment about burka bans and other more symbolic themes that may not concern so many people. I would like to ask a slightly different question: is it not important to talk about, for example, the problem of unemployment? vocational training? It is the teachers' day today, and I think we could send a greeting to the teachers of vocational training today, and I would like to know whether DF will help to eliminate the massive savings that the Ministry of Education has made up to be around 1 billion. kr., so we can get more into vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115851	Firstly, I would very much like to join in sending a greeting to the teachers of vocational training. After all, it is only a question of how long one has, that I did not go into it in my speech, because I really would have liked to have spent a lot of time on that. The second is that we are very concerned about ensuring the economy of vocational schools. After all, we have seen that the government has put forward its proposal, which still includes this so-called re-priority contribution in relation to vocational schools, and in the last two years, when we have had to discuss it, we have in various ways brought money back to vocational schools. We will also be able to look at the economy of vocational schools in a similar way when we are negotiating Finance Law for next year, because when we have a position that we want more young people to go to vocational schools, and the need for this in future too, Mr President, we also have the question in question. Morten Østergaard mentioned earlier, in terms of creating the labour we need, so we must ensure vocational schools that are attractive to come to as a student, and that requires resources. So I think we agree entirely with that is the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005115952	I am very pleased to have such an honest answer, for that is one of the main points. This 150 million. kr., there is no part of the financial bill, what is called the quality pool, which has been a patch on the wound for some time, and I am very pleased when the Danish People's Party will be joining the negotiations that they are having a really hard time at the vocational schools. They run really fast because they say they do, and they really do, and they need money to get more students to choose vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005120029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005120030	After all, we have had a position in this regard for a number of years, when we have said in various ways that we want more people to be attracted to vocational training as a young person, and then we must also ensure that it is attractive to go there and that there are, for example, some materials to be taught, which are up to date, that is to say, up to date. There are simply some challenges there in a number of vocational schools now I will not start mentioning those I have visited and we are aware of that, and of course we will also take that to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005120102	Then I'll say thank you very much to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for today's efforts. Before you leave the room, there are some messages I need to give you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005120112	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 49 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School, Law on Free Schools and Private Primary Schools, etc.) and law on post-schools and free vocational schools. Bill No. L 50 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on post-schools and free vocational schools and the Law on folk high schools. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll): Bill No. L 51 (Proposal for a law amending the law on fees and interest on late payments in respect of certain services levied by regions and municipalities and recovered by the recovery authority and the tax control law. Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Karen Ellemann): Bill No. L 52 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries. Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 53 (Protection of the marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland), Bill No. L 54 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Bill No. L 55 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Nature Conservation and the Law on Marine Strategy. and certain invasive species and the re-establishment of Annex 1 to the Marine Strategy Act) and Bill No. L 56 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Dogs). Those are some complicated titles. Then the Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby) has the following reviews: Bill no. L 57 (Medical cannabis experiment), Bill No. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act. Bill No. L 59 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicines, Pharmacy and Medical Devices). and delegation of competence in the field of medical devices) and Bill No. L 60 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Assisted Reproduction for Treatment, Diagnosis, Research, etc.) and the Health Act. The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then I would like to wish all colleagues a good lunch. You can then look forward to the next rapporteur during the break, and that is Mr. Jacob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, and he starts exactly at 1 p.m. 13.00. The meeting is suspended. 12.03).
ParlaMint-DK_20171005130002	The sitting is resumed. We will continue today's opening debate, and the next speaker is Mr. Jacob Ellemann-Jensen as rapporteur for the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005130014	Thank you for that, President. Welcome back from lunch. There are parties that want the future and who work to make Denmark a better society to live and live in, parties that will make tomorrow's Denmark better than today. Such a party is Left. We have a government and a prime minister with ambitions on behalf of Denmark, with faith in the future and with the will to make our country even better. He told us so well about this last Tuesday, a small hour's speech, which was a long yes to a better Denmark. Then there is the Social Democracy. When I was an even younger man than I am today, there was a popular film trilogy about another young man named Marty McFly, and the films were called "Back to the Future." If Mrs. Mette Frederiksen had been the main character, the film should probably have been called "Frefood for the past." For the Social Democrats obviously believe that the Denmark that you know and that we have now is good enough, and they say no to change, no to new ideas, no to a better Denmark. They seem to think that Denmark of yesterday is the best version of itself. I do not agree with that. And I am glad that all the politicians who have gone in front of me did not think that way. We have a duty to future generations, to our children and to our grandchildren. We need to make our lovely country better and we need to make our lovely country stronger. The government has submitted its bid, thank you for it, and the Social Democracy has presented, well, 12 pages of paper with no, no, no and virtually no figures. It is not because it comes as a great shock, because last year they presented a paper with no figures other than page numbers, and last year the paper had not even pages, because there was nothing. We do not have the same distrust of any change, that is why we will give tax relief to Danes who are in work. It is a proposal that means that the LO is allowed to keep an extra DKK 6,400. of his own money. We say yes to tax cuts because we believe that the working people deserve to be allowed to keep a little more of their own money. That's only fair, because they've worked hard for them. Social democracy says no. They think it is more important to spend money on removing the cash aid ceiling and giving refugees the right to higher benefits. If you ask the Social Democrats whether they think there is a need for growth, the answer is also no. They have presented a pamphlet, which they call a growth plan, but if you are bothered to use a calculator, you will find that the plan costs Danish jobs. Left says yes to growth. We must extend the recovery we are experiencing so that in future we can also afford our common welfare, because the prerequisite for our common welfare is prosperity, and the prerequisite for prosperity is a strong private sector. We have an ambition to increase employment by 55,000 to 60,000 people by 2025. Social democracy, yes, the only ambition I have been able to find, has been to be as unconcerned as possible, and it is doing very well. If you ask the Social Democrats if there is a need for investment in our common infrastructure, the answer was very clear before, and that was a no. They've set aside 0 kroner. for new infrastructure projects up to 2025. This gives them exactly zero opportunities to invest in infrastructure around Denmark where there is a need. The Left says yes to more infrastructure investments. We will raise the public investment framework by 22 billion. kr. towards 2025, so that we can better afford to invest in, for example. Our roads. This is needed because there are too many places in Denmark where growth keeps in line and it costs jobs. Unfortunately, social democracy has become the 'no' party. No to the reform party, no to tax cuts to the hard-working Danes party, no to the growth party, no to the future party, no to more money to the infrastructure party and no to giving the Danes clearer response party. Make no mistake, I know where we are, even though the Chamber has been set up a little, and I also know that politics is about disagreements. It is quite fair to say that you want to go in a different direction than the Left will. But then you just owe it to the Danes to state clearly what the Socialists want in concrete terms, so that you can count on it and see if it is related. And allow me to quote the former Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who said that it is not too much to ask Denmark's largest party to present an economic plan. While we are waiting for answers from the Social Democratic Party about what they really want for Denmark and how, I am delighted that things are generally going well in Denmark. It is not going well, but it is going well, and in many areas it is moving towards the society that the Left wants. More than 100,000 new private jobs have been created since the 2015 elections. That is good, because it shows that the Danish economy is healthy, and that is good because more jobs also mean that we have better money for our common welfare. The number of people with public support has fallen, and it is good when fewer people are dependent on public funds and more people are on their own. This is, of course, first and foremost good for the individual, but also good for society. I therefore welcome the fact that in just over a year there has been a reduction in the number of people on cash benefits; it has fallen by 13,500. The number of asylum seekers has fallen and, at the same time, we see that the proportion of refugees in work has increased significantly, while the proportion rustled down under Mrs Mette Frederiksen. In June 2015, just over 12% was spent. refugees in ordinary jobs after 3 years in Denmark; that is not many. Now, two years later, the proportion has risen to just under 30%. It is certainly not perfect, but it is great steps in the right direction, and of course it does not just come out of nowhere. We have created a new integration programme, and the business cycle is also part of the explanation, but they are not the whole explanation. Cash benefits ceiling and integration benefit are part of the core of a strict foreign policy. We have tightened foreign policy significantly, and Denmark has become a less attractive country to seek asylum in, and this has helped to reduce the number. It has given more money to the immediate areas where we can then help more people through an historic effort. This means that we can concentrate more on getting those who have come to Denmark into the labour market and getting them to embrace Denmark and the Danish language and the Danish values. Because the number means something. What else have we achieved? We have implemented a cancer plan IV and a dementia action plan. We've put the patient at the centre and secured better patient rights. We have set aside money for a national plan of action for the elderly medical patient, and we have ensured better medical coverage. It is all because we want to strengthen our common welfare and we must continue along that path. We must ensure the future of our common welfare and make Denmark stronger. And that must be with more than words, namely concrete action, because we owe it to future generations for our lovely country to be even better. Left says yes to a better and stronger Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005130905	Thank you to the rapporteur and there are many requests for a brief comment. The first question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005130912	Thank you for that, and also thank you for the fact that the rapporteur of the Left chose to use two thirds of his speaking time to tell us what he is thinking. I would say that the rapporteur of the Left tends to have such a flick, and it is also usually the case that one gets a smile on one's lip. But today it was like it was a little bit more stomach pristine than it was funny. And maybe it's because the government is here with a bad case. It is trying to give the impression that the Social Democratic Party has not put forward plans, although it is well aware that we have presented things in relation to both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan. They are trying to say that we have not made any agreements, but are just sitting in a corner and being pissed off, although by far most of the government's agreements are also made with the Social Democratic Party. So it is not an easy task for the rapporteur, and I fully understand that. On the other hand, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Now the rapporteur is so concerned that the figures have to be presented and you have to tell us what you stand for. And then I would also like to take into account that earlier this day we were made clear that there is not a penny in tax relief for pensioners in what is far from the government asking: when you have 5.2 billion. kr., as the government's plan says will be used for tax cuts, but as the government has not explained where to come from, the rapporteur can then give a guarantee that it is not pensioners in Denmark who have to pay for the 5.2 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131056	In other words, if we are to look at it a little historically, I would say that I have noticed this scaremongering by the Social Democrats. The last person to cut the benefits in this country was Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as I recall, and it was in a government like Mr Frederiksen. Nicolai Wammen was also a part of. And this was done, by the way, with the eager support of the Left in order to finance top tax incentives and corporate tax reliefs. Unfortunately, we haven't seen anything like this since then, but we have to work on that. I do not imagine that the benefits will be cut, even for pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131141	Then what we are getting here today from the Left is a guarantee that Danish pensioners will not pay any of the bill of 5.2 billion. kr. that the government still hasn't told how to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131158	I have told you something about this in the first answer. But what the government has told us about these 5.2 billion. kr., is that it among other things. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to talk about the children's cheque ceiling. It also includes payment for Danish education and increased use of profit principles. In addition, this is something that must be taken into account in the negotiations which are going on and which the government is hosting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131233	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131236	Thanks for a good speech. I should just like to ask you because I also asked the President of the Socialist Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, about how the Left feels about the ban on burka. It is a proposal that comes from the Danish People's Party. I know that we will hear about it tomorrow and that the Left will consider it there. However, in such a closed, confidential circle, the rapporteur might well be able to reveal the direction in which it is heading. What are you leaning on?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131311	It's an interesting choice of words that you have to lift the veil. Sir. Peter Skaarup simply sounds like the horde of journalists who have been chasing me in the last 24 hours and asking: can we not, in confidence, get a barn tip about how and how it is going to stand? I also hope and believe that the Left's position on overall clothing, burka, niqab etc. is very clear. We think it is an expression of a medieval view of women. We think it is an expression of a suspicious view of men. We think this is something that belongs in a society that we hope we left many, many centuries ago. We think this is discriminatory. We think that a burka is to compare with a kind of mobile parallel society, where you do not want to be a part of Denmark to such an extent that, when you are forced to move away from your own parallel society, you have such a mobile parallel society that you can take over and move around in. We are fiercely opposed to burka. Whether we will vote for or against the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party yesterday which, as far as I have heard, includes masking, we will take a position at our group meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131428	The next question in the line is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131435	Thank you. I would like to ask a question on behalf of the thousands of students who are getting ready for demonstrations around the country. They're gonna be gathering here this afternoon at 9:00 a.m. 16.00, and they do, because they are • You must not swear in the Assembly Hall, if you had to, I would have put a swearing word here pissed off at what is called the re-priority contribution, i.e. the 14.7 billion. DKK taken from the entire field of education, from vocational training and other upper secondary education to higher education, until 2021. They're really upset about the consequences. For they lack tools, they lack lessons. Their high school teachers are running too fast. It's all around. And they are even supported by companies and by Danish Industry and by Danish Business and Trade Unions and so many others. And I agree with them; I find it rather difficult to see how one can continue to streamline. Now the government has just abolished the productivity requirement or, they say, will abolish the productivity requirement in hospitals. And it is the same thing that applies to education. There is therefore some limit to the effectiveness of an educational situation without damaging quality, and now there are thousands of students today who would like this to be stopped. The very short question is: what are the Left, the Prime Minister's party's answers to all these students?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131603	I am very pleased that Mrs Pernille Skipper is taking in this concern. We listen to those who demonstrate and protest, even if shouts are being used which are not to be used in this Chamber. Let's just get the proportions a tiny bit in place: students in Denmark have free and equal access to free education, get the highest education support worldwide. We spend more money than ever on education. When Mrs Pernille Skipper says about this re-priority contribution that you cannot keep saving 2%, I would say that I think there is basically a healthy exercise in asking yourself: can we do this in a better way? Can we do this in a more cost-effective way? After all, it sounds to Mrs Pernille Skipper as if this re-priority contribution, which has covered many areas since the 1980s, but which has only covered education since 2016, last year, is something that has been going on for incredibly many years. Well, it's not. I am quite sure that in the field of education, too, things can be found that can be done better. This has been done in some educational establishments. I'm sure you can learn from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131725	What the rapporteur of the Left says is not quite right. Because there may have been more money, but there have also been more students. Then you measure per. students, Denmark has dropped out of the ten best OECD countries, compared to how much money we spend per. students. We're falling. Everyone else is investing more and more. So it's factually wrong. When they're out there today, it's not because it's only in the spreadsheets that the money is missing. Then it is because it is in their everyday lives that the money is missing. Then it is because they say that it may be theoretically possible to find a way to do this more effectively, but what is happening is that more people are being stuffed into classrooms; what is happening is that at vocational schools you do not have the tools you need. That's the reality they're facing. So the rapporteur couldn't relate to the reality that students meet that quality is really going on here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131823	Yes, I would like to do that, and I would actually like to invite Enhedslisten to do the same, because later in this parliamentary year we will have some discussions and negotiations on an SU reform, i.e. whether we should rather spend the money to support students or to train students. The idea of this is that we say: Is there a way we can make the SU smarter and then use the entire proceeds to throw into the programme itself and not the support of the students? I would very much urge the Enhedslisten to take part in that work, because then you can also help determine what the money is to be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131906	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005131911	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There is no doubt that for the alternative, one of the most important political tasks that we have ahead of us is to take good care of our planet and to speed up the green transition. We have also heard the Prime Minister's address on Tuesday with some very fine words. We have heard the Prime Minister of the United Nations be over and talk to a lot of other cities in order to make them live up to the Paris Agreement, and yet I think we lack some action at home from the government. On the other hand, I think that the government has made some choices that slow down the green transition. The PSO tax has been abolished, a North Sea agreement has been drawn up which provides tax relief for digging oil out of the ground. Car taxes have been changed to make it cheaper to buy fossil cars, the tax on electric cars has been reintroduced. Now you can drive cheaper over Storebælt, and it also gives more cars on Storebælt and bigger CO2 So, can the rapporteur understand that sometimes we can be a little bit concerned about whether the government really wants to promote the green transition, or whether the Prime Minister is more decorated with borrowed feathers when he talks so warmly and well about what we hear and which we recognise, while nothing really happens at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132035	Let me start with the good stuff. I would like to start by very much agreeing with the rapporteur that it is a good thing that the Prime Minister is taking the lead in this initiative in New York, because it is necessary for responsible countries like Denmark to take the lead in the fight for a better climate, because Denmark is not an island, we are a number of islands, but we are not secluded from the rest of the world. We made an energy reconciliation in 2012, which according to the then climate minister, Mr. Martin Lidegaard was the most ambitious ever. So we are ahead of the objectives set out in this agreement, which was the most ambitious ever, in the words of the Radicals. Today, more than a third of our electricity in Denmark is produced by wind energy. I think we can be proud of that, and I think that is a good starting point for being a pioneer country in the world. Compared to the car business, I'm sorry, I don't think I'm gonna be able to answer the whole thing. So it's also the case that a hybrid car, an intermediate hybrid car, is going to be $100,000. cheaper. It falls from something with $400,000, I think, to about $300,000. Now I am not going to mention car marks here and advertise them, but that is something that makes it really attractive for many people to change there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132201	One might say that it is fine for a hybrid car to become cheaper, but we all know that this is only a road we have to go, and that is that we need to get all cars driving on fossil fuels off and off the roads. This is the only way forward if we really want the green transition. So I must not ask the rapporteur: what is the government's objective? From what year should we say that we have no more fossil cars in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132230	Well, the government has a crystal clear ambition that by 2050 Denmark will be independent of fossil fuels. This means that our energy consumption must be covered by other forms of energy. Then I'll just have to say in relation to the car thing: I'm sitting around clapping my hands when I see a big Swedish car manufacturer... maybe you can guess who it is who goes out and sets ambitious targets and says: We stop producing fossil driven cars before that and that year. It's the way it's supposed to come. We must provide the best conditions for this, and so do we, but at the same time we must recognise that there are many people in Denmark who are deeply dependent on having a car and who live in a place where it is necessary to have a car. That is why we think it is reasonable that cars should be cheaper. So do the environment-friendly and safe cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132327	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132332	Thank you. I would like to know if the rapporteur could explain the Prime Minister's very fine words in the opening speech that Danish young people have the courage to speak about the world. It's good, and it's best if they come back home with new experiences. We need them. I fully agree with that. Does this mean that the government wants to make it easier or harder for Danish young people to go back home?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132412	After all, we must be careful to begin interpreting other people's speeches, especially when they sit next door and are not allowed to say anything. But it is certainly the intention of the Left to encourage young people to go out into the world, to make themselves smarter, to improve their skills and to gain experience and also to make it easier to return home. I think I know what the challenges are, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen points out. Because we can see that for some it is a challenge if they are so lucky that along the way they fall in love out there and want to bring back their loved ones. We are working on that because it must be possible. People who come out, work for Denmark, study and show formbrog out in the world • Now we've also got it in here, and I'm happy about that and who comes home again, must of course have better opportunities for it. That is certainly our intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132509	I think that is excellent and thank you for that commitment. We look forward very much to seeing this become easier, because it is very much a challenge now with the rules that are. But that was another point I made. Because if you take the words of the Prime Minister and now the rapporteur very seriously, and we do so in the Radical Left, it must be a narrow matter for the Left and for the rapporteur to reject the proposal from the Danish People's Party, which has come up, for an income requirement for the SU, because it will mean a gigantic extra bill for the many students who have just the courage of the world and come home with their experiences and their knowledge. They will lose their right to SU with this proposal if they stay for more than one year abroad. So I hope that the rapporteur can lay dead here immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132605	The point of view has been noted, and that is a point of view which I also broadly share. So we have to find the right balance here. We need to find the balance, because it must be the good education, not the SU, that lures people to Denmark to study. We also benefit from foreign students coming to Denmark. That is why we also need to establish some form of profit principle for when you have access to different benefits in Denmark. And that is a very important point and something that we need to work on, that is, how we ensure that those who have actually been through making themselves smarter, do better and who come back home and can enjoy us with it are not harmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132650	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132654	I've been looking forward to this. The Prime Minister travels around the world and holds some fantastic talk about Denmark's green ambitions and what we deliver. And it is true that Denmark is well advanced on the bus also internationally. However, I think it is essential to consider what this government is doing on the green agenda, and not just to take credit for the green results of previous governments. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur a very specific question: does the rapporteur agree that the two most recent governments, the Left Government and now the VLAK Government, have implemented measures that weaken the green climate change and are therefore responsible for Denmark's failure to deliver 40%? CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132750	So, this whole story that the Left likes to plunge into, that it is a completely black government that hates climate action and wants to fight them by all means, I do not recognise. I am glad that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also takes note of what the Prime Minister says around the world, but that is also true at home. We have an energy reconciliation, as with the aforementioned Mr. Martin Lidegaard's words are the most ambitious and we are over-fulfilled. We need to find a balance. Before it was the PRS tax and the removal of the one that was criticized I didn't get to answer there, but I can now do that, but it's also about creating some tolerable conditions for the Danish business community. We have to find that balance, and I think we are doing that by saying that we have a head start in the area of climate change, and we must take advantage of that. We're gonna have to bring more, we're gonna have to bring others. I just don't want our head start to stay, so let's say far, we get lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132850	A part of the industry is the wind turbine industry, and when last week the government broke with all the traditions in the energy sector and made a narrow deal with the Danish People's Party alone, it was despite the fact that the industry • Danish Industry, the wind turbine industry, all the actors in the energy sector • strongly warned the government against it. However, it was decided to invest only 1 billion. kr. spread over 20 years it is about 50 million. kr. to wind and sun. It's the lowest that's invested. Despite the fact that the rapporteur of the Left would now like to dress up with the energy agreement of 2012, we should certainly be dealing with what we ourselves are doing. Is it more ambitious or less ambitious than what was agreed in the 2012 energy settlement that this narrow agreement has been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005132942	Well, I'm just wondering a little bit, and I'm sorry I'm not just throwing myself into an answer right away, but it's because I'm thinking about this short-term memory that we were also talking about in the last debate we had in here. And that government, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was part of, made a growth agreement in 2014, which led to more 2 I think that historylessness tends to be hypocritical sometimes when the left throws himself into that sort of thing. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133015	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133018	I would like to return to the issue of financing the government's tax reform, where 5.25 billion. kr. Well, we're gonna have to come from the transfer area. The rapporteur has explained that part of it must then come from some principles of recovery, and we can all calculate that it cannot possibly amount to 5.25 billion. kr. That is why, of course, we are very interested in where the rest will come from. The rapporteur was very interested in talking about the hardships of the previous government, so I think we should try to get involved in that. After all, the previous government was the former Left Government, which quite rightly made savings on the transfer income of pensioners in the form of savings on the housing benefits of pensioners. Then we could not get a clear answer from Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133126	I simply think I answered that very clearly before, namely that they can do so. But let me just mention the previous government, namely the government of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht was also a part of, for there were just a few achievements. They picked up 3.6 billion. kr. from a reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, 1.2 billion. kr. From a reform of the cash benefits, 2.2 billion. kr. from the SU and 2.3 billion. kr. In addition, there was also a straight pre-retirement reform. How are the rapporteur's feet? Is there a hole in them?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133205	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has not answered the question of who should feel safe. We can therefore see that it is not pensioners. Then who is it? Are those the recipients of the allowance? Are those the cash benefits recipients? Well, it's not like you're just magicing 5.25 billion. kr. Out of thin air. This corresponds to ten times the cash benefits ceiling. I'm not guessing that sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen expects that it is something that is not noticed when you make such a pruning.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133235	I answered Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's question. I can't deny that, sir. Benny Engelbrecht has forgotten what he himself asked, but I answered it precisely. Look at the transcript afterwards. This is about, among other things. about a ceiling on the children's check • I am still delighted that we will be talking about the payment of contributions to the Danish education and about the increased use of some profit principles, and we think it is a good and healthy way to manage the kingdom's finances. Then you can take part in the negotiations that are going to be with the government at the end of the table, and you can also help to translate these things if you have good and wise proposals. I understand that the creativity of social democracy in finding good places to cut down is not quite small.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133319	Next in line, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133325	Thank you, President. In his speech on Tuesday, the Prime Minister said that Denmark's prosperity was largely borne by trade with other countries; I think a figure of about DKK 65,000 was mentioned. per I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in this field. It was in relation to the European Union, the internal market and such a thing that it was mentioned. That's why there's just one thing that's puzzled me and now I thought that when Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, who knows a great deal about many things, may well explain to me the context: why is it not most important to get the best possible trade agreement with Britain in connection with Brexit, possibly by keeping them in the internal market, even if it means that the British are allowed to decide for themselves about immigration to their country?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133410	I mean, I am one of those who is crying that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. I find it regrettable because it has been one of our important allies and it is an old trading partner in many areas. What is important for Denmark in relation to the UK's withdrawal from the EU is Denmark's interests; it is primarily Denmark's interests that we must take care of. With regard to the way in which relations with the internal market are linked, I would say that I think one should be careful to impose our own attitude on the British Isles, beyond what is so and excuse the selfishness of it on the Danish side. Because they are the ones who have chosen to step out and how they will be associated, we must then look at. But the internal market is, after all, made up of four freedoms: capital, goods, services, but also people. And with regard to that à la carte model, which you might, maybe it isn't a little unclear at the moment... try to jam yourself up to, that is, where you say you want the cream foam, but not what's downstairs, I would say that that is not how the piano plays.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133528	But the question is why. In other words, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that Denmark's prosperity has been driven by trade with other countries, by close trade, in other words, by the fact that our companies have the opportunity to sell their products, including, of course, to Great Britain. Why is it not more important than saying to the British: you can only get that, and we can only do that together if you accept free immigration to your country at the same time? I mean, it's a political decision that you've connected those things. So I'm just asking, why is it in Denmark's interest to connect those two things together? Why is it not in Denmark's interest to say to the British: We would like to have the closest possible trade with you in the future, preferably in the internal market, and we are willing and actually think it may be okay that at the same time you are allowed to decide on immigration to your country, because it is more important for us to keep you in the close trade cooperation than it is to impose you on free immigration to Britain? Why is it not in Denmark's interest to think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133625	After all, it is not Denmark's choice that Britain should leave the European Union, and all elections have consequences, including some unfortunate consequences. I think that this is going to be a very big problem in relation to the free movement of people, because there are many British people living, working or being pensioners around the rest of Europe, and there are many Europeans and many Danes working in Britain. We have no idea how this is going to happen. But yes, of course we have an interest in getting the best possible trading conditions for both parties, but above all for Denmark. And that is not something that we alone will have to decide by the remaining 27 countries; we have to do that in the cohesion that we are still a part of and that Britain no longer wants to be a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133716	The next question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133720	After all, the rapporteur of the Left is proud of the government's calculations. One can discuss the quality of the calculations, since then the Prime Minister has to go out and apologize for key calculations that have come from the government. But I do not think we are done discussing this 5.2 billion either. kr., and who's gonna pay them. The rapporteur did not reply to the question as to whether benefits should be reduced in order to provide tax relief. So I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133753-2	I actually thought I was trying to answer that. I actually thought I tried that already when Mr. Nikolai Wammen asked the question where I said " and I now quote Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen: I do not see how we are going to cut benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133812	Well, when the rapporteur of the Left stands on the floor of the Parliament and boasts how good the government is in figures, why can't we see a figure of this 5.2 billion? kr.? Can we have a calculation here today that shows where the money will come from, or must it be left in the dark? For the rapporteur continues to say that he cannot see that certain groups have to pay for it. But somebody's gotta pay this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133840	The Socialists can then join the fight and take part in these negotiations. Then you get something to say in relation to the coinage of this. So, I understand that all of the Socialist Group members seem to have only received page 1 of the question guide that has been distributed and that it is therefore going to get stuck in this question. And we can cheer ourselves up with that for the rest of the day. I just think it's a huge stone from a glass house when the Royal Danish Social Democrat complains about the government's ability to count when you've put the Ministry of Finance to count on the so-called Finance Bill that the Social Democracy comes with, and you get the answer: we can't do that, there are too few figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133919	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005133923	Thank you. I would also like to ask about the Prime Minister and the alleged involvement of the Left in the climate issue. When I hear the rapporteur answer my colleagues' questions, I get the feeling that the Left believes that the only sector that is straining the climate is the energy sector, and if you believe it in the Left, I understand that it looks as bad as it does. I mean, it's like you've got... created an agricultural package that increases CO2 2 Then you've been bound by an energy reconciliation that was adopted when you didn't have the power and luckily for it, because it means there's a momentum in the energy conversion, even if you're doing everything you can to counter it. You have postponed a planned offshore farm, you have done everything you could to slow down coastal mills, and then you have recently made a narrow agreement on the financing of wind and solar energy, which is criticised by both industry and industry for being too expensive in relation to what you get for money. I would like to ask the rapporteur to explain what has been done by the government, in addition to what lies in the energy conciliation, which has been tied up with some others before you gained power. What, then, has been done in agriculture and in transport, which should reduce Denmark's pressure on the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134044	Well, something the government must have done, all the time that the World Bank has voted Denmark to be the world champion of green energy. So if you do not want to take my word at face value, and unfortunately the left does not want to, and I am sorry about that, then it may be that you will listen to the World Bank. In other words, the agreements mentioned by the rapporteur on the food package and other packages are, as I said before, once again about finding this balance where we must ensure that we are ahead in the climate area without destroying the industry. And that is what was being done with agriculture. I am sorry to say that, as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, our old peasant party, we cannot sit on us, and neither can Denmark. This means something. It means something to the welfare that is also important to Enhedslisten that we get some money into the box. That balance is difficult, and we need to find that balance. I guess we're not gonna agree exactly where that balance is. For us, therefore, it is important that we do not completely undermine the various tasks, but that we allow them to exist in a green and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134206	Not a single example could be given by the rapporteur. Green energy, the World Bank has said. When the bourgeois government came to power in 2001, every effort was made to put an end to the expansion of renewable energy. The fact that we have a leading position in green energy is not because of bourgeois governments, it is in spite of bourgeois governments. I am not surprised that nothing can be pointed out, because CO2 is now increasing. Can the rapporteur confirm that we have a bourgeois government at the helm right now, when CO2 then I would like to give the rapporteur a chance to mention initiatives outside the energy sector which have been put in place and which will reduce Denmark's climate impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134255	It is awesome to be a political rapporteur, but one of the few elements that is a little annoying about it is when you stand up here and there is a questioner who is an expert in his area and who has dug himself deep into his own area of expertise and so fries one as rapporteur on individual examples and details within his own area. 'Cause I can't say I'm sorry. I can't answer that. It's not that I don't want to. It's not that the answers don't exist. That's because I'm a generalist and the questioner is a specialist in this area. I'll be happy to find the answer afterwards. We can go out and find that over a cup of coffee, but I don't have answers on the nest hand. I hope there is some hint of understanding for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134338	The next question is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134342	Thank you. In spite of our repeated disagreements, I tend to think that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has such a little sense of humor and charm, and he manages to get it out and the hair he wants to highlight himself, okay! But I think that today is such a slightly more wrinkle version we get and a lot of extravagance talk. And I'd really like to give Mr. Kim a hand. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. kr., with which the government, in addition to welfare degradations, will finance its tax reform. People were asked about the elderly, and they weren't, you have to understand. Later today there are quite a lot of students meeting, and they might be interested in knowing whether it is the SU that needs to be cut to find money to finance the very uneven tax cuts that the government is setting up. Can one deny that it is the students' SU that will be pruned?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134445	Actually, I don't think I'm avoiding it. If you are going to have a fine illustration of the concept of extracurricular talk, I am sure that on Wikipedia or other useful media there will soon be a link to Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech here in the Chamber and her ability and willingness to answer the clever questions put by the honourable Members of the Chamber. I've answered this several times. I have answered that I simply do not think that there will be a reduction in benefits. I have answered that it is a matter of a ceiling on the children's cheque, that it is a question of participation fees for Danish education and that it is a question of using the principle of profit. And then I have urged the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party to join the fight and come to the negotiating table, help decide where this money should come from, and give their input instead of just sitting in the corner and being cross. And, of course, it's gonna be a little eternal if I can't figure out more merry ways to answer this question. Now I do not know how many questioners are left from the Social Democratic Party, but I assume that they will all ask the same question and it is simply not very viewer-friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134551	In answer to a question where one is criticized for extravagance, there will then be a lot about Mette Frederiksen. I should like to say to Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that it is precisely to talk about it. We can't get information in writing when we're discussing this 5.25 billion. kr., where they come from. Can you put the table forward and say: this is where, the 5.25 billion. kr. Coming from? At least you're nowhere near the things you've been telling me now from the platform. So we'll have to ask that afterwards and get it in writing from the government. There has been no response so far. I just have to be sure that equally unequivocal rejection of the fact that it is the elderly that is being given to Mr. Nicolai Wammen before, just as clearly an answer can now be given to the country's students: the SU will not be cut back as part of financing this tax reform. Was it a clear rejection that was behind that long tirade that came before?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134644	Well, we're going to have a discussion about the SU in the spring or later here in the parliamentary year of the SU, as Mr. Jesper Petersen's government cut 2 billion. kr. i. After all, we will have a discussion on whether it is appropriate. It cut you 2 billion. kr. off without blinking. It may be that we helped you with it, but there was nothing wrong with it back then. Well, that's the switch and the microphone isn't on! So we're gonna talk about that. I would actually rather spend money training students than supporting students. So I think we should talk about that when we talk about SU reform. Then it may be that sir... Jesper Petersen's microphone will be turned back on by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134732	The next in line is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134734	Thank you. I find it deeply problematic that, according to the Ministry of Education, some 1 billion have been saved. kr. I hope that the rapporteur's party will agree with this. Fortunately, I have today received a positive statement from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that he would take it to the finance negotiations. That is why, instead of asking for something quite different, it is a rather special way of doing it. In France, President Macron announced this summer that licences to investigate oil and gas will no longer be granted and that fossil extraction will be stopped by 2040 at the latest. What does the rapporteur say about this? Is that something the government wants to follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134823	I would like to begin by wishing France every success. And so let me say that here again it is about there being a balance to find, all the time Denmark is not an island. Now it was criticised before that an agreement was reached on the extraction of oil from the North Sea. I would rather that it is oil that is being extracted into the North Sea that we use as long as we depend on oil and we should be as short as possible than that it is oil from other countries. Because that makes us dependent on the other countries, and these are typically some countries on which we may not be very keen to rely. So this thing about saying that we stop using our own oil and then we use other people's instead of I don't know if that's what the rapporteur is asking for. I would think that was a really bad idea. The government's ambitions in terms of fossil fuel dependency are, of course, that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. I think this is a good ambition, I think it is a very good ambition, and I have no doubt that we will live up to it. But as long as we have an addiction, I think it is best that we are more self-supporting than that we should rely on countries we do not want to be in our pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005134946	So the answer is that we will not be as ambitious as Macron, so we will wait until 2050 instead of 2040? Is that how I understand the rapporteur, that is what the rapporteur's party wants and the government wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135003	May I just question what is most ambitious: stop drilling for your own oil at some point or stop depending on oil at all. I think the latter is most ambitious, because that's what leads to CO2 So I think it's not to neglect the fact that it's a little a comparison of pears and bananas. One is about the investigation, and the other is about the application. We have an ambition to be independent of fossil fuels by 2050, and that is a good ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135040	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135043	I understand from the Prime Minister that he is very excited about the students at Esbjerg Gymnasium, but I wonder why the Left would save 30 million. kr. on EG.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135059-2	On what? I'm sorry! I am sorry, but I could not hear the last word from the rapporteur. I assume that it is the re-priority contribution to which reference is made, and let me repeat this again. So I think it is a healthy exercise to look at: do we spend the money most efficiently? We need the money to train our students and our students. We do not necessarily need to use them on communication consultants, on fancy advertising, on unnecessary rent, to mention some of the examples that other educational institutions have used to get down a bit, on this 2-percent objective. Actually, I think it's healthy. This is something you use in many places and also in the private part of reality. And I think it is healthy to see whether you spend the money well enough in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135157	There is something strange about the fact that the Left spends so much gunpowder moving around in government jobs. What if you were just as concerned about holding onto the jobs that are there? I mean, right now, teachers are being fired in our vocational training and our high schools all over the country because of the policy of the Left. I mean, what's it like?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135221	I think that criticising the government, criticising the Left for not taking account of the part of Denmark that is outside Copenhagen, in other words, sounds very hollow. I think we have a government which, with the great natural help of the Left, has ensured that there is a better balance in Denmark, both when it comes to jobs, when it comes to business opportunities, when it comes to growth and when it comes to infrastructure. So I do not think that there is a re-prioritisation contribution in areas that cover the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135300	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135304	Thank you. The rapporteur will probably not be happy with this, but I will therefore stick to the debate on where the 5.5 billion will go. kr., which is going to be used for these tax rebates, and which according to the government's own proposal is to be found by what is called adjustments to transfer income, must come from. And I have heard the sources of funding that the rapporteur has pointed out, and both the rapporteur and I know that those sources are not sufficient to find 5.5 billion. kr. We can, of course, say that we will find out during the negotiations, but I actually believe that there are many people sitting out there, not least our folk pensioners, who are already some of the poorest groups we have here in Denmark, but also early retirementists and people who are affected by unemployment and illness, and students who really would just like to get a clear message from this government as to whether they are going to the pockets again to finance government tax rebates. So can't we just get a clear answer? Can't we just find out what it is? I guess the left hasn't gone out and said that 5.5 billion. kr. They're gonna get us a fingertips. It is probably because we have an idea of where the money should come from, in other words, from the sources that have been indicated and that are not sufficient to find 5.5 billion. kr. Can't we just be honest? I simply do not believe that the Left has just been playing a number. There's gotta be a plan. You just don't want to tell the Danes about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135430	I mean, we're gonna stay on the same street, and, uh... Pelle Dragsted has gotten his hands on the Social Democratic pamphlet with clever questions that can be asked to the rapporteur of the Left. I shall not repeat the examples I mentioned earlier. One of the things the previous government did, and I thank it for that, was to make less regulation of transfer income. This was done under the government of which Mrs Mette Frederiksen was a part. I can't answer any more elaborately than I've done. But if the purpose of continuing to ask the same question is that I have to repeat myself or that I have to say that I really do not know more about that than what I have said, then let me say now: I cannot answer. It is not because I do not want to answer, but I cannot answer this question further. This has to be discussed with the Minister for Finance, who quite conveniently entered the Chamber right now. I guess that's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135539	In fact, the Minister for Finance has the opportunity to speak on a later occasion. But just for the record, I do not get any Social Democrats to ask me what to do down here, and I can guarantee that no one else in my group will do that either. Then it should be in place. When this is important, it is because it is, and I think the rapporteur also agrees with that, an unsuitability to go out and distribute gifts by saying that tax breaks are being distributed here and there, but will not tell who should pay the bill. Is that where we're going in the Folketing? Or can we not just know what the Left is thinking, so they not only tell us about the good, that is about those who need some money, but also tell us who you want to take the money out of your pocket?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135629	I have absolutely no doubt that if anyone tried to give dessins to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, they would fall on rocky ground. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted can be quite calm. Besides, nobody gets money in the form of tax relief; some are allowed to keep their own money in the form of tax relief. And, of course, when we reach an agreement, it will be fully funded, and we can be absolutely calm about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135701	The last question in this round will be Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135706	The Left rapporteur says that answering questions about the government and the Left's climate policy requires specialist knowledge that he does not have. The Left's rapporteur also criticises the Social Democratic Party, which is not a Prime Minister's Party, for not having all the figures in their draft Finance Act, but will not respond to the figure of over 5 billion. kr. must come from. So what is the point of the rapporteur standing on the platform? Because we can't get an answer. We can have very different political positions, and we have that in the Danish Parliament, but we must at least count on the fact that when the party's rapporteur stands on the floor, you can get answers, especially when it is a rapporteur from a government party, from a prime minister's party. Apparently, we have heard that it is not the pensioners who have to pay. We did not hear that rejection in connection with the students. Is it now such a guessing game where we have to guess for each group who has to pay? Is this silence an indication that we should then guess that it is the students who have to pay for some of these tax cuts? There may well be disagreement, but we just want to know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135820	I certainly know that feeling about the possibility of knowing what we are really talking about. That's why I wanted some numbers, not all numbers, but just some Well, I've now got this question six or seven times, I don't have numbers on it and I've answered it to the best of my ability. I am aware and painfully aware that the expectations of me are extremely high, and I understand that, but I cannot answer that question further. So if the possibility is there for a round number. Two, try something else, and then maybe we can have a dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135902	In fact, my expectations of the rapporteur are high, and that is why this has become a farce. I can only take the rapporteur's words at face value, namely that the government keeps the cards so close to the body that not even the Prime Minister's Party's rapporteur has been told who will pay for this. Let me then ask a question which the rapporteur might be able to answer, because I do not think we are going to make any progress in this House. The government's Finance Minister has said that he believes that European companies are heavily taxed in advance and, with that quote, has also distanced themselves from the proposals that have been made to tax IT giants such as Google and Facebook, which, as you know, pay 0.03% respectively. 0.8% and 0.8%. in taxes in Europe. Does the Left agree with the Minister of Finance that such companies are heavily taxed in Europe and that there is therefore no reason to do any further?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005135957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005140000	I am quite sure that our joint competition Commissioner will ensure that such things are maintained too. I have very much confidence in her, and I think Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also has. I am very pleased that this type of company is in Europe, I am very happy when they settle in Denmark, I am very happy when they hire Danish employees who get paid and pay a tax too high in Denmark on that salary. I am delighted about that. And I am quite sure that we, both Danish and European, will ensure that those who have to answer theirs also do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005140040	It's over. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one on the platform is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005140050	The average HKs will get the most in tax discounts. The government made a big deal of that when it presented its tax proposal. It just wasn't right. No, it was actually manipulation. The reality is that a director not only gets a significantly larger tax relief in crowns and ears than a HK's also as a percentage of income gets the director of the government's proposal more than the HK's, contrary to what the Prime Minister claimed to the Danes. Two days ago, the Prime Minister said again in his opening speech that the purpose of the government's proposal is to ease the tax burden on those who earn the least. Well, that doesn't harmonize very well. If the Prime Minister and the rest of the government really believe in their own policy, why do they not stand by it? Why do they not stick to reality? The truth is that the Prime Minister and the government will not stand by and that their policy really benefits the few. During the financial crisis, the Prime Minister asked ordinary people to tighten their belts, while the banks, the speculators who created the financial crisis, got billions in bank packages. Then the bill was sent to ordinary Danes. Together with Dansk Folkeparti, the Prime Minister reduced the daily allowance, set up the retirement age and destroyed the early retirement wage. The result is that people have to leave home and home because they are so unlucky to be hit by unemployment. The butcher's worker, the cleaning woman and the earth and concrete worker, who has worked his whole life, can see the retirement age disappear on the horizon. The Prime Minister then claimed that the deterioration was necessary because there should be provision for welfare in the future. But here we are. There is much evidence that welfare, which is already under pressure, will be the great loser if we do not stop the government's plans. The Prime Minister will spend billions on tax discounts for the richest Danes paid by the community. The richest 1,000 Danes can look forward to about DKK 190,000. extra per year in tax rebates; at the same time, the richest can enjoy the fact that it has become significantly cheaper to buy a sports car. This government is always busy glorifying those who already have the most. At the same time, it is always in the future that should be invested in welfare never now. If the government gets its policy through, it means 24,000 fewer employees in our common welfare in 2025. And if, for example, we... If you take the older area, there will be more elderly people. We need welfare because we all live longer. So you don't have to be a professor of mathematics to figure out that the help we then offer the elderly becomes inferior. So there is no need to invest in welfare, even though otherwise it was the excuse to reduce the conditions for the unemployed and for those who have mentally and physically debilitating jobs. Once again, the money is being sent to the richest in society. The vast majority of Danes are left with a lower social safety net, inferior welfare and a long nose. You know what that is? It's a bell-clear break. And that is also the wrong direction for Denmark. Denmark has not become one of the richest countries in the world by gilding the few. Denmark has become one of the richest countries in the world because we have fought inequality and created a strong community. This provides opportunities and security for the general public, including: through free education, free health and a helping hand when the accident is out and we are hit by unemployment. But now we see that inequality in our society has increased and that the welfare that both creates security and prosperity has deteriorated significantly. I have a really nice neighbor named Berit. Berit works in home care. She works hard every day to help the older citizens on her route, but it has become difficult for her to achieve everything, among other things. because, in the midst of the efficiency regime, transport time is not included in the tasks. As she says, we only have 2 minutes to put a stocking on an elderly person, regardless of whether he lives on the 2nd or 12th floor. It can't be done. Berit also tells us that the zealous schedules do not take into account the fact that you are dealing with people. Berit doesn't want to just walk into another person's home and put on a pair of socks without saying proper hello. I can understand that. But there's just no time set aside for that, so the plans are gone. Yet, despite the working conditions, Berit is literally working through rain and sleet to help our older fellow citizens. She's one of the welfare heroes. Without them, our society wouldn't be driving around. They deserve proper working conditions and recognition for their great efforts, but they get so far from the recognition and working conditions they deserve. If it stands for the government and maybe also for the Danish People's Party, then time will show Berit must run even stronger, there must be even fewer colleagues to help more elderly people. We see that development everywhere in our welfare. If it is written to Enhedslisten, instead of investing in our common welfare. Let us ensure fair pay for public servants and put an end to the unfair pay gap between men and women. Let us show more confidence in the public service so that they have room to spend their strength on the citizens rather than on an infinite pile of bureaucracy. We need more colleagues for Berit and the rest of the welfare heroes. It is not only when it comes to welfare and tax rebates that the government has little difficulty with its policy. So it does when it comes to our climate. The Prime Minister's recently stood in New York and said that Denmark is ready to take leadership in the climate area, but at home the government has used its strength to slow down the green transition. That's a funny way of showing leadership, so the rest of the world can't take that seriously. It's kind of like meeting your fitness coach at the local barbecue bar. Recently Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left Energy Rapporteur, in Deadline and said that this government is the greenest in recent times. In fact, the government has abolished Denmark's ambitious climate target of 40%. CO 2 And while DSB is starving, hundreds of millions are spent on motorways. The result is greater congestion, more delays and more pollution. Then why does the Left say that the government is the greenest in recent times? Why won't the Left stand at home and in New York that the green switch has turned down? Well, the Left itself called it green realism. And that's the opposite we need right now. The world has a basic task. We cannot continue as before if there is to be a future for future generations on this planet. In such a situation, of course, we should not stop and slow down the green transition. The government's failure to deal with the climate crisis and future generations is in stark contrast to the public's commitment to the green transition in Denmark. The government's coal-black policy is simply out of step with the population. The failure of the government towards the welfare society is in stark contrast to the desire of a large majority of Danes that we should take better care of each other. If you ask the Danes whether the economic room for manoeuvre should be spent on welfare or tax rebates, only 10% will be chosen. tax rebates, while more than half opt for welfare. Looking at the election vows prior to the last election, the Prime Minister should not have a Chineseman's chance to implement his masked top tax rebates. A massive majority of the seats here in the Folketing are chosen on promises of investment and improvements in welfare. Therefore, I would like to use the last part of my speech to send a clear message to the Danish People's Party, and I hope that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Peter Skaarup is listening because they promised the Danes in the election campaign to ensure better welfare. There is no excuse for adding votes to this government's plans to reduce welfare and squander the money on those who already have the most. There is a majority in the Folketing that can be used to stick a stick in the wheel on the government's antisocial plans. There are no excuses for using that majority. I hope that this will be a political autumn in which the government will stick to its policy, abandon manipulations so that we can have an open political discussion about the direction this society is going to take. And I am sure that we will have a political autumn in which it will appear quite clear who in this Parliament will actually help to create better welfare and who will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141222	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141229	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Often, when Enhedslisten is and always actually with good intentions, I think it says something, both when it comes to climate, when it comes to the fight against tax havens, when it comes to wanting to cut some of the new major digital monopolies, and when it comes to the fight against social dumping, you want broad international solutions. I think that's kind of a good idea. However, one of the things that lies in the uncertainty is how the Enhedslist actually sees the international solutions, given that at the same time we want to withdraw from the European Union. Now we can see the chaos that has led to in Britain being voted out of the European Union. You haven't realized what kind of plan you have. We do not know how to achieve relations with the other EU countries. So maybe Enhedslisten can answer here I've actually been trying to get answers at least over a year. When we get a referendum, as Enhedslisten wants, about Danish withdrawal from the EU and let us assume that a majority of Danes will actually vote in favour of joining the EU. What will happen then?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141338	In other words, the Enhedslisten will in no way copy what is happening in Britain. We very much disagree with the Conservatives in Britain in the way they approach it all. For us, the aim is to have strong international cooperation that ensures solidarity and sustainable solutions and is democratic. The European Union is not an example of this today, unfortunately. We see that the European Union is standing in the way of the fight against social dumping; we see the European Union preventing us from banning endocrine disruptors in school cases, for example. The European Union stands in the way of the things we want to do. So we fight for the improvement of the European Union every day. There is an opportunity to change the European Union in a better direction through Treaty changes. But of course there is also a possibility that it is not possible to do so. There is much evidence that it is uphill. Then we are in favour of a looser connection for Denmark, so that we have some freer opportunities to do what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141430	It's fair enough that Enhedslisten doesn't mean it. But now I also get a little confused about the rapporteur's response. For he says that Enhedslisten fights for a better EU every day. Fair enough. But does this mean that it is no longer Enhedslisten's policy to want a referendum on Danish withdrawal from the EU in order to resign, or how can that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141450	Thank you. The unitary list tries every day to draw the European Union in a right direction. It's just a lot, a lot uphill, one unfortunately has to conclude. We see that we are being prevented from effective action against social dumping. That is why we have said on the part of the Enhedslisten that the European Union should not stand in the way of a political majority at home who, for example, want to ban endocrine disruptors, so that our children do not suffer it. If the European Union stands in the way of this, then we will choose the Danish people to whom we have a target over the European Union, and then we will very much like to have a conflict with the European Union. Ideally, we would also very much like to have a looser link for Denmark to the European Union, so that we have the opportunity to do all the things we want to do without constantly bumping into the EU's liberal internal market, which puts obstacles to progressive solutions. So yes, Enhedslisten would like to have a looser connection with the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141542	The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141546	Thank you for that, President. That's because the welfare thing, of course, of Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is defined as: Do you spend more money or spend less money? The Enhedslisten says that it is now the responsibility of the Danish People's Party to ensure that there will be better welfare, in the form that we do not accept, for example. cuts and things like that. But then I just have to ask Enhedslisten how it might be that there were some years under the previous government where Enhedslisten was parliamentary basis and support party for the then government where there were cuts. After all, there were a few years when the municipalities were given less money to use. In the two years since the 2015 parliamentary elections, the Danish People's Party has made sure that the municipalities have had more money to use. So that means that after the parliamentary elections in 2015, when Enhedslisten was put outside of influence, there has been more welfare. Before 2015, where Enhedslisten had decisive influence here in the Danish Parliament, there was less welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141640	It was the case that Enhedslisten entered into three of the four finance laws made under the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government. All of them ensured welfare improvements. We were really, really happy about that. What we just saw was that the government entered into a number of other agreements on the right in the Chamber, for example a municipal and regional agreement that we disagreed with and deeply displeased with, and which led to deteriorations, just as a number of reforms were made, among other things. In the case of early retirement and flexible work, there was a deterioration in the situation of people who are ill and unemployed. That kind of policy never votes for Enhedslisten, which is why we voted against it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141717	Now I only react to this because I was asked about it before. This was raised in the Enhedslisten's rapporteur's speech here today. I just have to ask: how can it be that, if Enhedslisten made three out of four finance laws under the last government, there was minus growth in the municipalities? How could Enhedslisten put up with it? We have made two financial laws after the parliamentary elections, and we have made sure that there is plus growth in the municipalities, that is, that they have more money to make use of. How could Enhedslisten back in the years when three out of four finance laws were made with the then government, live with the fact that there was minus growth in the municipalities for several of the years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141751	We were not satisfied with that, and we criticized the government to the point of doing so. Well, the important thing is that Enhedslisten doesn't go down and vote for something that is bad. On the contrary, we criticised it, and we let the government itself be responsible for finding a different majority if they wanted to do something that was unsolidarous. Unfortunately, they found that on the right in the Chamber. The Thorning government could have taken the political choice to make solidarity, welfare-oriented and sustainable policies with the Enhedslisten time and again, but they then chose to make antisocial reforms with the right. At that time, we were displeased, and we will avoid repeating ourselves in the future for all things in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141829	The next question is Mr. Jacob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141833	Thank you for that, and congratulations to the rapporteur with the baptism of fire as acting political rapporteur on the Enhedslisten. The rapporteur advocates that we should pay tribute to everyday heroes, including the rapporteur's neighbour, Berit. I fully agree: we must celebrate the heroes of everyday life. The government doesn't just let it go on talking toasts and stuff like that. And I can drown you in the corner! We're not gonna leave it at toasts and stuff. We're actually gonna do something about it. We simply want Berit and her colleagues to bring back more money. We want to lower the tax on work for ordinary people. Why on earth is it so horrible for Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005141921	I always love to argue with Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. I welcome the opportunity to do so today, and I am also very pleased that it is not only the Enhedslisten who pays tribute to Berit, but also the Left's political rapporteur. I know Berit will be very happy about that. On the other hand, I am quite convinced that the people who work hard in our care for the elderly and those who work hard in our welfare society will be able to figure out that when there are more older people, but not enough money comes with, there will be fewer hands to care for our elderly people. And that's the problem with what the government is doing. The Enhedslisten is not against granting tax relief to ordinary, hard-working, low-paid people. In other words, we would like to see a reform of the tax system which would give those people tax relief paid by the top of society. But we do not want to take money from our common welfare system. After all, the workers and our children, our elderly and our sick need the welfare that our community must give them. And we really think there should be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142028	Then I can reassure the rapporteur that it is there too. There is room for this, and I am rather annoyed that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has jumped on the false choice between welfare or tax relief that the Socialists are trying to put forward. Actually, I didn't expect that. Because it's a fake choice. Now that there is room for both and we can both invest in our core welfare and make sure that these everyday heroes, whom I very much welcome, get something more out of working at their workplace, why not? Why won't Enhedslisten help that ordinary Danes get more money from going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142116	Well, unfortunately, it was probably a little more Social Democracy that jumped along on Enhedslisten's cart, compared to criticism of masked top tax reliefs. For the Thorning government had little difficulty with top tax relief and did things a little differently than had been promised in the election campaign, and suddenly gave top tax relief. It was Enhedslisten against that. And it was the Left who carried it out with the Thorning Government. But the problem is that when the Prime Minister and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen now says it is not an either-or-so it does not hold up. In other words, if you look at the government's own plan, it costs up to 2025 more than 24,000 public employees, of whom there will be fewer, at a time when we know that there is a demographic challenge because there will be more ageing. So it is precisely a either-or where the Left has politically chosen relief at the top for those who have the most, rather than welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142209	The next question is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142213	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. My question is actually very simple, and it says: how high should the tax on work be if it is to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142229	We don't have a goal for the treasure to be so and so high. So why are we in favour of tax in Denmark? We do this because we think it is good that there is a redistribution. It makes our society break if the difference between top and bottom becomes too big. We do not want that. In fact, we want to support the principle that the widest shoulders should carry the heaviest load. We are very much in favour of the progressive tax system, which has been in Denmark for many years and which I know the Liberal Alliance is very much opposed to. Then it is also extremely important that we have a tax system in order to ensure that our common welfare is financed, so that we do not have to have our purse up when we go to the hospital; so that we do not have to have our purse up when we go to school or at university. Well, it is indeed good for our society and it has created security for the many, it has created freedom for the many, and it has even created one of the most prosperous societies in the world. I think that's fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142331	Well, thank you for the answer, or whatever to call it, because there wasn't really an answer to what I asked. So, I do not think anyone in this Parliament is in favour of not paying any tax at all, so I agree with that statement. And, of course, it takes taxes to finance our hospitals, our schools and everything else. But is it to be understood that Enhedslisten has no tax policy or has no concept of how high or low taxes should be, other than that one is very disagreeable when we want Danes who go to work to be allowed to keep some more of their own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142408	In other words, if someone is sitting at home behind the screen and thinks that Enhedslisten does not have a tax policy, I can say that we do. And I'm really glad to be able to tell you about it. For example, Enhedslisten suggests a massive boost in our common welfare, so that there are more to take care of our children, our sick and our elderly, among others. by re-establishing the property tax and by rolling back the top tax relief granted. And that gives billions in the box that can be used to strengthen our common welfare. So it is a clear example that Enhedslisten gives priority to securing the community, to securing the many, rather than giving to the few at the top of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142446	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142451	Thank you. And congratulations on your speech. That was a good speech. I got a little preoccupied with the EU debate the rapporteur had with Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. I really thought it was quite interesting, because I think that the Enhedslisten and the SF agree that if we are to solve cross-border problems such as tax havens, the refugee crisis, climate change, then we also have to work at a European level, and we in the SF believe that this should be a binding European level. In other words, we do not believe in the way out of the European Union; we believe that the European Union is making sure that a more progressive European Union is created. And now the rapporteur says that the Enhedslisten wants a looser membership of the European Union, but last June Mrs Pernille Skipper just said quite clearly after Brexit that a vote had to be taken, that now we had to follow suit and have a vote so that we could get out of the EU it was TV 2 that brought that news. I just want to hear: Does the Enhedslisten still want a vote on Denmark's membership of the European Union, or does it no longer mean that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142554	I welcome the question, because it is a very important debate, in other words on how to create good European and international cooperation. The Enhedslisten believes that we need strong international and European cooperation and that the problem with the European Union is that the European Union is setting up clear barriers to our ability to create a proper society, in other words preventing us from putting in place massive, proper and effective measures against social dumping and, for example, preventing us from creating proper consumer protection. So you can say that Enhedslisten walks on two legs. In other words, we are fighting every day to draw the European Union in a better, more united direction, and then we are working for Denmark to have a looser connection with the European Union, because we can well see that it seems to be a little uphill to change the Treaties so that it becomes a united, sustainable and democratic European Union. Not least in view of the blackmail that has been seen by the left, for example when they have won power in Greece, we are pessimists and we therefore allow ourselves to walk on two legs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142652	Well, I kind of feel the same way. I do not think that the European Union is perfect. I think there are many things in EU policy that we should fight for is being changed. For many years I have thought that the European Union has sometimes been a neoliberal project, but I have always thought that it was better to take the fights in the European Union than to resign from the European Community because then I really fear what is subsequently of communities that are committed. That is why I would just like a clear answer to: Does the Enhedslisten believe that we should resign from the European Union? Does the Enhedslisten believe that there should be a vote where the Danes should decide whether or not we should be a member of the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142728	In the Enhedslisten, we are EU opponents and we are doing two things, as I just said. In other words, we are constantly trying, every day, to work hard to draw the European Union in the right direction, and then we are also working to ensure that Denmark has a looser connection as part of the creation of the European Union, and that is the objective of both sides: a strong commitment to international cooperation in Europe, which is sustainable, solidarity and democratic. Sometimes I have to say that I am disappointed with the SF, not least in the last period of government, because that was where you had the power, and then you wasted a lot of chances. So, SF included Denmark in the financial pact, which restricted our ability to pursue an offensive investment policy that had otherwise been chosen before going into government. So, unfortunately, we experience time and time again that the SF has failed that battle, but it is good if the SF is on the line now, and then we can fight every day for a more solidarity and progressive policy in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142824	The next one is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142828	I think I'm gonna have to go on a little bit on that track, as sir. Jacob Mark started out because I really tried to find out if there was an answer to the question in it, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen said on behalf of the Enhedslisten. So, was there an answer to the question of whether a vote should be held on Denmark's continued membership of the European Union? The Enhedslisten has been claiming for many years in various Treaty discussions that one could not withdraw from the European Union at all. A country now does, and that is why it is a relevant question. Are we working to have a vote where, as Britain has done, we can decide whether or not to resign? It shouldn't take three attempts to answer, but now Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen still saw a third.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005142911	Well, I actually answered some of that earlier. I said that I do not think it is good what the Conservative Government in England is doing right now. Well, I'm not gonna copy that at all. The Enhedslisten does not intend to copy this, in the sense that there is a very justified concern among the British people about the social dumping that the EU's internal market and free movement leads to. Theresa May then intends to abuse to pursue an even more free trade-oriented policy that increases the race towards the bottom. Of course, we do not support that. But I must also say that I think it is inspiring to look at a guy like Jeremy Corbyn, who has chosen to say that he accepts that the British people have voted out of the European Union and will then use the opportunities that come with it, i.e. to renationalise the railroad, which the social democracy here at home has also begun to talk about, but which the European Union stands in the way of, or to create a state bank that can guarantee investment in green conversion and job creation, which the EU rules also prohibit. So there is no doubt that it offers some opportunities, and it is inspiring to see that the Left in England is attacking them. And I think it was one of the decisive forces for Corbyn to have as good an election as he was seen in the last parliamentary elections in England.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143025	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143029	I wish I was able to explain, on the basis of the three issues that have now been raised, whether Enhedslisten really thinks there should be a referendum on Denmark's membership of the European Union. I am unable to do so, I must say, after the answers I have received. But let me ask you something else, because it will probably not help with a fourth attempt, namely: should it loosen the connection, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen talks about, leading to fewer EU citizens working in Denmark paying taxes and contributing to our welfare? Is it the aim of the looser attachment that fewer EU citizens work in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143106	After all, the aim is to combat social dumping. In other words, the reason why we are talking at all about the need for a looser link, and this requires, first and foremost, a debate on how to get a looser link and, possibly, a vote on whether to sign up is, of course, that we see huge problems in our labour market. In other words, we see Eastern European colleagues being heavily underpaid and exploited. Therefore, Enhedslisten thinks you should be welcome to come to Denmark, but that it should just be in arranged conditions. What we are proposing quite specifically is, for example, that the local trade union should be allowed to approve its contract of employment if you come here from another European country. This will, of course, prevent massive social dumping, with which we cannot in any way live around our jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143159	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143201	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I will continue along the path of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, because I understand that the Enhedslisten will employ 27 000 more people in the public sector. It costs about 10 billion. kr., and it has to be among other things. is being financed by making this tax change, which we have heard a little about today, and in particular by raising the top tax. Then I'm a little surprised that you can't say how you've calculated this and what the rate will be on, for example. The marginal tax and the property tax. Can the rapporteur perhaps give me a little more insight into the calculation behind it and what we might expect, for example, to do? The top tax should be on if Enhedslisten had 90 seats?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143245	Yeah, I can do that. The proposal put forward by Enhedslisten specifically to hire 27,000 welfare workers to take care of our children, our sick and our elderly, so that there are colleagues for welfare heroes, Berit and all the others, we are funding, among other things. by reintroducing the property tax and roll back the top tax reliefs. I believe that this gives a marginal tax of around 61 per cent. On the highest incomes, but that does not change anything, at all, for the low incomes which continue to have a tax of 40.3%, as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143325	Thank you. The rapporteur is then in favour of covering the proceeds of the 10 billion. kr., one must understand. Then I'd like to ask you something else, because Enhedslisten is very preoccupied with this growing inequality thing. For example, in the case of: A citizen goes from passive support to getting a job, the Gini coefficient will increase, and that means that there will be an increasing inequality. Does the rapporteur think that inequality is an expression of something that is harmful to Danish society? Or how does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143400	I mean, inequality is shitty for a number of reasons. It is unfair that some people should have extremely much and that some should live in poverty, which is unfortunately the situation in today's Denmark. So, there are children who grow up in poverty in Denmark in 2017. I think that is wrong, but it also helps to break our society. After all, society breaks over, the cohesion force disappears if there are some who are plunging rich and some who have everything, far too little. What has made Denmark so strong, so free and so secure is that we have fought the inequality, and Enhedslisten will continue to do so. And we hope that there will soon be a majority in the Folketing that will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143438	Thank you. The next one is sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143447	Thank you. Yesterday was a really good day • I also assume that it was true for Enhedslisten • because the parties in the Folketing managed to agree to abolish the productivity requirement of 2% that our hospitals have been subject to for many years now. There was too much running too fast and it is no longer possible to get things together, because there was simply no time for caring for the sick who go to the hospital. The Enhedslisten is delighted about this. But what I was actually thinking about when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen was a little after the Danish People's Party about the welfare policy here at the end of the speech, was why Enhedslisten had not abolished the claim of 2% when he was in power when he held Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government in power in his time. Why was it not abolished even then?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143548	It was for the simple reason that there was no majority in favour of it. At that time, the Danish People's Party was not against me either. And a great deal has happened here, it is really, really good, and this is really due to the fact that there are a great many of our patients' associations, but also employees in our hospitals and hospitals who have shouted loudly and shouted watchful in the rifle that this simply cannot continue. That's why it's a huge victory for them, it's a huge victory for our common welfare that this change is now happening, and it's really, really positive. I would like to say, following on from my speech, that it should of course remind the Danish People's Party that there is a massive majority in this Chamber that is elected to ensure better welfare. You can just say no when you sit with the government, because their antisocial plans do not have a majority in this Chamber. You should write it on your hand or thighs or foreheads on each other every time you go to negotiation, for you do not have to succumb and give relief in the treasure to the very richest at the expense of the community, for there is not a majority for it if you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143655	Good. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143703	Yes, we can just say no, but the Enhedslisten could also do so when the government of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt was held in power at the time. That is a little what I am asking for answers to, because it is very good to criticise welfare policy, and there is also reason to do so sometimes. We in the Danish People's Party are precisely in favour of having money for our elderly people, for our hospitals, for our police, central parts of the pillars of the welfare state. We will put this on the agenda in the context of the Finance Act. But I'm just asking Enhedslisten the question: when you had the chance, when you were decisive for everything, why didn't you get rid of such a claim, which was so obviously wrong, because you were in power?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143746	Because there was no majority. The problem was that then the Danish People's Party was in favour of the demand, they sat and voted in favour of one regional agreement after another. So this meant that if the Enhedslisten had overturned the Thorning government, there would have been a majority before the election for this claim of 2%, because the Danish People's Party supported it, and there would have been a majority for the same after the election. So it's crazy good, and it's a victory and a party day for us in the Enhedslisten that we first moved the Danish People's Party, then moved the Social Democrats, and then we finally moved the government. After all, this is not something we have just done ourselves, we are not so strong yet, because fortunately we have a lot of cool people out in welfare who have been screaming and screaming. There have been patient associations who have shouted loudly and said that it cannot continue and they have won today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143834	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143841	Thank you. A few weeks ago, you could hear Mrs Pernille Skipper participate in a radio interview where listeners could call in and get answers to some questions. Then there was a listener who called in because he thought he could get an answer to a question. And the question he asked to Enhedslisten was how high the treasure would be if Enhedslisten were given power as one had observed. And then you heard a very, very long and embarrassing talk about outside so long that I think the President here would break in if you repeated the piece of art. So I'd like to ask you, 'cause now I think you've had a little time to think about the question and let's just take the top tax: How high do you think the tax of the last earned crown should be here in Denmark if Enhedslisten could decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143922	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005143925	Thank you. Well, Enhedslisten doesn't have a measure of exactly what the top tax should be. But it is clear that we would very much like to raise the top tax. Well, we would like to raise the marginal tax for the richest in Denmark. We are in favour of a tax reform which increases the tax burden on the richest in our society and lowers the tax burden on the lowest incomes in our society. We are in favour of this. What exactly is to be put on, we do not have a target for. However, what is crucial for us is that we use the tax to ensure that there is a solidarity and progressive redistribution in our society in order to combat inequality, to ensure that our society does not break over, and to ensure that there is funding for the welfare tasks that we believe should be lifted, so that there is money for our children, our elderly and our sick people out in the welfare community.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144005	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144007	Can't we just get some clues like that about where the border is? Well, I hope it's less than 100 percent, after all. It's about 90 percent. plus/minus? Is that 80%? plus/minus? It's 70 percent. plus/minus? Well, can't we just get a little closer so that if someone could vote on the Enhedslisten, they had some idea where the border was just about like that? Frankly, I think the Enhedslisten owes that to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144039	Here you go, Mr Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144042	Well, if you take our latest initiative, for example this welfare initiative, which is about restoring welfare, where we ensure that 27,000 extra employees are put out in welfare to take care of our elderly, sick, children, etc., then we propose a funding that rolls back the top tax reliefs and among other things. also reinstates the property tax. It will give a marginal tax for the richest of about 61 percent, as I just remember. So, according to our latest proposal, you want to land there. However, as I have said, we would very much like to see a change in the tax system in general, so that the wealthiest people would pay more and also have a higher marginal tax rate and the lowest incomes would get cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144123	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144131	The rapporteur says that the Enhedslisten will fight for more equal pay between men and women. Can the rapporteur give examples of job functions where there is a difference in pay between men and women when they do the same work, that is, where men are paid more, just because they are men, not because they do a different job, but only because they are men?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144154	Well, unfortunately, we see that in many places. In other words, we see a great many places, not least when you have individual wage negotiations, that there is a huge difference between what men and women get. And then we see the very, very boring situation that you have subjects that have the same level and length of education, but where the typical female subjects are massively worse paid than the typical male subjects. That's not fair. Well, that's an inequality in our society, an imbalance that we need to correct. The Enhedslisten's proposal is then to try to do something about it, and we have quite specifically proposed that a pool be set aside for the public contracts which we could then set aside here in the Folketing and which the social partners could then use if they wanted to make an effort to settle some of the inequality wage in the forthcoming public contracts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144250	Here you go, Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144253	I did not really hear an answer to my question, which was: could the rapporteur give some concrete examples of job functions where a man gets more pay only because he is a man? I heard the rapporteur say that there are different jobs, different roles, different professions where you get different salaries, but are there any examples in relation to the same job where you do the same job, that a man gets more pay only because he is a man?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144329	There's a huge difference between what men and women get. But if an employer says that all employees have to stand up for a row and that all men get a raise and all women do not get it, then that is discrimination. Well, it's not like that. This happens, for example, by the fact that in individual wage negotiations there is just a bad tendency to give men more. And then we have this very, very big structural problem, that you don't appreciate women's work performance, no matter how hard it can be, for example as SOSU helper, as a cleaning assistant, as a nurse, compared to how you value typical male subjects with the same level of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144409	Thank you. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144423	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions about cheating at high school exams. It is the case that the Ministry of Education published a report on 3 October which shows that during the school year 2015-16 118 students were expelled from the exams because of cheating. The Conservative People's Party has put forward a new proposal in which we believe that we should sanction students who cheat on exams by having to pay back three months' SU. I would like to hear what Enhedslisten thinks of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144503	We think that's a really stupid idea. You shouldn't cheat at all when you graduate. You really shouldn't. Of course, bets need to be made to stop. However, punishing arbitrarily financially without regard to what people also have on incomes will hit some quite insanely hard. For an outsider who cannot just go to his parents and get help and then get caught cheating, it can mean that he cannot pay the rent at the end of the month. This is not sensible at all and can hit people disproportionately hard. Of course we have to take action against cheating. I just think this is a bad suggestion. We have other ideas from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144545	Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144548	Thank you. Given that we are paying to go to high school free of charge, you can also get SU paid by society, does the Enhedslisten not think that it is a bit of an insult to the nurse, the police officer, the craftsman, the educator, who helps to pay for being able to go to high school free of charge and even get SU that some choose to cheat? I also think that there is something bad comradeship in it, because there are, in fact, some who may be cheating in front of the queue to get into an education that the hard-working student who does not cheat cannot get into so much. So I would like to hear: What is Enhedslisten's suggestion in terms of getting rid of exams?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144637	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144639	Thank you. Well, it's a mess to cheat on the graduation. You shouldn't do that. Of course, we cannot accept that either. But what do you do about it? I think that some of the ideas that have been put forward, which would like to punish all students collectively with, for example, taking their Internet access, are a dumb idea. We need up-to-date exams. I think this whole punishment thing on the wallet is really stupid. And so I also think that we need to look at the fact that today our young people have had some discussions about the former • are being subjected to extreme pressure. There is a character race that also causes some to crack together, causes some to go down with stress and probably also causes some to cheat on the exam. We should do much more in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144728	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144736	I assume that even Enhedslisten recognises that the prosperity of Denmark and the money that finances the public sector and what Enhedslisten calls welfare come from business. Therefore, I would like to ask Enhedslisten what will Enhedslisten do for business. What will Enhedslisten do to enable business to earn more money so that Denmark can become a richer country or just maintain its position as one of the richest countries in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144803	First of all, I'm not buying that with the public like booze on the private. Well, the private couldn't exist without the public. If there were no trained employees and hospitals to take care of us when we get sick, and if there were no proper infrastructure and roads, then the private industry would not be able to drive around Denmark either. So the public sector is a prerequisite for the private sector to exist. What are we going to do to help create jobs and development in our society? The Enhedslisten is in favour of a targeted effort, both creating jobs and making a sustainable transition. For example: there was the green investment fund, which the government unfortunately closed down, and this was an example of a targeted effort that helped companies to convert to renewable energy and which created jobs. We thought this was a good thing and far wiser than what is unfortunately done by the present government, which, like it, makes it cheaper to pollute and thus increases the strain on our environment, nature and climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144911	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144914	It was a rather thin answer where I could only hear that Enhedslisten will do something for the part of the Danish business community that works with environmental technology and climate technology. What will Enhedslisten do for the rest of the business community; for Mærsk and Novo Nordisk and the large part of the business community that does not work in the green industry? In other words, if you do not want to do anything for that part, you recognise quite openly that if Enhedslisten gets power, it will go badly for business, and then Denmark becomes a poor country. It is not a question of some nasting the public sector. But it is a fact that even Enhedslisten must recognise that the money for the public sector comes from business.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005144953	Well Enhedslisten will make targeted bets that help e.g. entrepreneurs, but who also help companies to adapt, so they use less energy and so they pollute less. We want to do that instead of shooting with a shotgun and just giving tax cuts to all companies, even if they are big environmental pigs and are part of a coal-black industry. That is not our policy. We will make targeted efforts that create jobs and sustainable conversion and thus are an investment in the future, so that we can make a difference both at home and internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005145034	Thank you. That was the last question and the last answer. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005145059	Thank you. I went to a concert with Rolling Stones on Tuesday. It was a fantastic concert, and whether you're into rock music or not, I think most people will find it extremely liberating to see Mick Jagger and the company break loose with what they're still passionate about. They are the epitome of freedom and enthusiasm and inspiration. Mick Jagger is 74 years old and has so skipped his payroll. He will, and he can. It made me think that we in Denmark all too often judge people out and disintegrate expectations of each other with such a thing we can probably not-attitude. We're talking the individual down and the state up. We may not be able to work any longer, we may not be able to cope with globalisation. Refugees will probably not be able to get to work, and women will probably not be able to compete with men. But seriously, we can do a lot of things! People can do a lot of things if they just let you. This requires us to believe in each other and each other's competences and to do away with the idea that unless everything is regulated in detail by the Danish Parliament, things will definitely go wrong. It's basically about having the freedom to be who you are. We are all different, and that is why we must have the opportunity to be just that. We're not gonna be stuffed in the same gray box. We should not conform to the system, but the system must conform to the citizens. If your shoes, pants or even your bed don't fit everyone, why on earth would a kindergarten, a school or a nursing home fit everyone? That is why we here from Christiansborg must steer as little as possible. That is why we must guard against the free choice of citizens. There is much talk at the moment about a generation of curling parents overprotecting their children and doing them a disservice by giving them a lift to the football match or coming with a new air mattress for them at the Roskilde Festival when the circumstances have flattened the first. 'Cause it's all missing. Curling parents syndrome is in many ways a parallel to the public sector, which for decades has become more and more pervasive. We have developed a curling state that not only steps in and helps those who are most at risk and most in need of help; those who have stumbled in life and need community support to get back on their feet. We have a rigid system guided by rules so that we can really control and control ordinary, well-functioning citizens. We have done so for so many years that many have not discovered it at all, but we have taken responsibility from people and also a bit of freedom. That is why we must put an end to the rule tyranny in the public sector, and that is why we must ensure that aid to the most vulnerable is as it should be. Fortunately, both are well under way. One of the stories that's made the most of me is Curly's story. Curly was a drug addict who lived a tough life on the edge of society, but he wanted to take responsibility and he tried to fight his way out of his misery. Curly met my party colleague and all of us, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen with a proposal to make a social card. Quite simply, Curly and others on the edge of society can get a foot in the labour market. Curling knew that he would not be able to do an ordinary job, but he still wanted to have the opportunity to earn an extra penny and create value for himself and others by being part of the community that a labour market is also. It could be by clearing tables, sweeping floors or otherwise going to help here or there without having to be registered, systematized and controlled and without being pulled into cash aid. It was Curly's kingly thought. Curly is not here anymore, but his idea can now become a reality for others who live on the edge. The Social Free Card is part of the initiative for job reform II presented by the government in August, and in the interests of society's most vulnerable, I hope that you will support the realisation of Krølle's good idea. Because that's basically what we're here for. We're here to make a difference for Krølle and all other Danes... a positive difference. Freedom is also about trust, and we have that in the Liberal Alliance. We trust the citizens and that they will be able to make the decisions that are best for them themselves, including public servants, those who work hard for the children, young people and the elderly, who care, train and care for the elderly. I know that they are going to work to do well, and I am sure that they do not need detailed management, and I have no doubt that their job satisfaction would increase if we set them free. Many politicians have been talking a lot about this for a really long time, but the rules do not stop by themselves because some people talk about it. That is why we are now putting action behind words and, with the right of challenge, we are giving public servants the opportunity to challenge rule tyranny. We want to hear from the protagonists themselves, so that they are not just extras in a great bureaucracy. Every time they bump into rules and systems that complicate their work, they can challenge it, and then it will be looked at. Because we need to get to the bottom of systems and rules, and for that task we need help from those who live with the rules out in reality. Denmark has a strong Minister of Education. She has freed all primary school teachers from more than 3,000 bound learning goals. Imagine that we had come all the way out where some have thought that teachers may not be able to learn unless they are kept on a short leash in the form of thousands of bound goals. This is therefore an expression of distrust of the teachers, whom we are now replacing by the trust they deserve. For of course, skilled and committed teachers who are passionate about their subjects can manage without detailed management. In the Liberal Alliance, we will give parents the opportunity to choose the school that they think is best for their child, and no, it is not just us with high salaries that should have the opportunity for free school elections. As many people as possible have to. The Danes are actually very fond of the free schools, and about one in five families choose an alternative to primary school. And that is why we propose that the parental pay for free schools should be reduced further so that it is not the economy that stands in the way of free choice of schools. In many parts of the province, the local school has been closed. The local authorities have decided that, and that is their right and their choice. However, in many places a large local commitment has resulted in the emergence of small free schools; schools that hold together local communities. It is important, and it is Denmark at its best. I must therefore admit that I also disagreed very much with Mrs Mette Frederiksen when she proposed, before the Social Democratic Congress, to cut subsidies for free schools. We must support local engagement and we must not underestimate the importance of free schools. We have a good primary school, and we must also safeguard it just as we do with the free schools. But surely we should not do so by giving the free schools reduced conditions. It must never be about being at least poor on the contrary. Differences are good, and the public service must also reflect this. That thing with one size fits all doesn't fit. It's not like that, and fortunately for it. Freedom and respect for diversity we take on in the Liberal Alliance. That is why we are looking forward to autumn's debates on priorities in the Danish economy. We must take care of civil society, and we must also take care of those who create the growth of our society. Without revenue no expenses • It is that simple and it applies both in our own and in the Danish state's economy. I recently read an interview with Licorice King Johan Bülow, who bet everything on starting his own business. He has also been met with the sentence: Hey, it was very lucky that you made up the thing with licorice. It provokes him, and I can quite understand that. So it's not just luck when someone like Bülow does well. There are hours and years behind that success, and dedication and hard work. Often everything has been wagered financially and thrown all safety overboard and ran a risk that few dare take. It's the kind of people that help create growth, so we secure the state of the nation. Therefore, we must continuously ensure our companies good conditions, so Denmark remains a good place to pursue its dream. We say 'yes' to drive and innovation and 'no' to that we probably can't say 'yes' to the attitude. Stand down is a real decline, and this is especially true when the world around us is roaring away. In the Liberal Alliance, we want to develop society. Otherwise we might as well park ourselves over at the National Museum, and I'd rather see Denmark as a bright star on the big world scene than I'd like to see us at the National Museum. So when Rolling Stones sings • Start me up • We don't have to answer: Shut me down. Because we can do it. Denmark can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150115	Thank you. We shall begin with brief comments from the rapporteur. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150121	Thank you for that, President. I do not know whether the police officers who are currently struggling to create security, more security on Nørrebro and in other parts of the country, or, for that matter, the nurses who are fighting only day in the country's hospitals, are experiencing that our welfare society is a curling state. However, one can say that one has heard the same from the party here, where a minister sitting in this government believes that our society is a loser factory, and I think that is just as violent enough. Listening to what is being said and reading what is being written about the welfare society, the question must of course arise as to whether the Liberal Alliance really does not think that inequality is good and whether the Liberal Alliance will not confirm that what has now been presented for tax reform is the government that has presented it and the Liberal Alliance is the most biased and unbalanced tax reform that has been presented for 16 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150234	I do not think that inequality in itself is good and in the Liberal Alliance we are not striving for inequality as a goal. In order to give a very clear answer, I have to say that in this context I do not even care about inequality. For what must be the point, what must be the purpose of the work we are doing here, is to ensure as much prosperity as possible for as many people as possible in a Danish context. So, if you care about inequality in a Danish context, it will mean that if tomorrow an innovative multi-billionaire moves to Copenhagen and settles here, the inequality explodes. Is that gonna be bad? No, it won't, at least not according to my concepts. I shall quote the questioner's own party colleague, Mr President. Henrik Sass Larsen, who once answered a similar question, answered something like that, at the other end of Køge, the recipient of cash benefits did not become poorer because his house increased in value and that is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150328	Here you go, sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150334	The rapporteur makes it very simple: you do not care about inequality, and I think that is liberating. Because if you see what is happening around Denmark, yes, you can take the view that the Prime Minister made in his opening speech that things are not going well, things are going very well, you have to understand. But there is also another side to the medal in which the Prime Minister is sung at the moment, and this is of course about them in those parts of our society where inequality is increasing. Is the message from the Liberal Alliance to them: The inequality you experience in your everyday life, do we really care?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150417	There are parts of the country where inequality is increasing, the questioner says, and it did so in all the years when the questioner was a minister in a Socialist government. There's so much like that. And I am glad that the questioner acknowledges that. That's a liberating, honest answer. I am not very concerned about inequality in a Danish context. What I think is important in terms of the task we have is to ensure the prosperity, growth and prosperity of this country. That is also why the socialist approach to economic policy, which is to sit on your hands and that it is now the end of reforming, and then everything will be fine if we just burn all the money off in the public sector, of course, is a wrong approach if you want to ensure that both private welfare and public welfare are also affordable in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150456	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150457	Thank you for that, President. My question is directed towards something with the European Union, because the Liberal Alliance has, in the past, had such a more EU-sceptic approach, and that is because I do not really understand all that with Brexit. I do not understand the European Union's position on Brexit, and it may be that the party that now has the foreign minister's post can explain it in a language so that I can understand it. Why is it important for the European Union to say ultimately to the British that they can only have free trade with us in the internal market if they accept free immigration from the other EU countries at the same time? Why is it important for us in Denmark to create this connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150546	It is because freedom of movement is one of the pillars of the internal market on which agreement has been reached. I and the Liberal Alliance are so sorry that the British chose to vote out of the European Union in a referendum, but we respect, of course, that it is a democratic choice made by the British people. The task, both on the part of the EU, but in particular on the part of the Danish government, must then be in the process that comes to the conclusion that the resignation is likely to be realised, to ensure Danish companies and Danish citizens the best possible conditions in our future collaboration with the UK. The fact that the European Union stands by the fact that it cannot be said that it wants to have the internal market, but that it does not want one of the pillars of the internal market is reasonable enough. This does not mean that there are no problems with free movement, as we also care about the Danish Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs too, in relation to free movement, that is, the right to settle where you want in Europe or within the European Union, and to take up a job, should not be the same as the right to freely raise a welfare check in, for example, the United Kingdom. Denmark. This is an agenda on which I believe we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150701	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150702	Thank you. Now it is a political decision to link these two things together; after all, it is politicians who make decisions in the European Union. I guess some kind of democracy is in that system. Then you have to be able to decide not to link the two things together. What is most important to the Liberal Alliance? Is it to have maximum free trade with the Great Britain, in other words, for Denmark to have maximum free trade in the internal market, or is it to say to the British that we want to buy free trade with them, because at the same time they will not accept free immigration from, among others. the Eastern European countries? What is most important politically for the Liberal Alliance? I can also ask in another way: if you could take these two things apart again, would you want to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150749	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150750	No, we would not do that on the part of the Liberal Alliance, because freedom of movement has made Denmark much, much richer. At times when we find it difficult to meet the work needs that we have in Denmark and when we then run into problems with the work supply, it is a gift that we have EU citizens to be able to draw on to fill those jobs. It is, after all, the same thing as in Britain. Then there are some problems with the way in which freedom of movement has been organised, in other words, that the rights that come with it are distorted, in that we have free access, for example. to raise children's checks and other welfare benefits. I fully agree that action must be taken against this, and so does the Danish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150831	Thank you. And the next one is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150837	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There are a great many points on which we share the position of the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Alliance is talking about freedom. I will go into this myself when, after the rapporteur, it is my turn to come up to the platform. The rapporteur said that freedom for the Liberal Alliance is about trust. The rapporteur also said that Christiansborg must steer a little towards interfering in the lives of all sorts of others. And then the rapporteur spoke about the free schools and the enthusiasm for the free schools, which we also share. With this in mind, I do not quite understand why the rapporteur's own party, the rapporteur's own Minister for Education, is going to put forward a draft law which will somehow make it harder to apply to set up a free school, because it is now necessary to prove that the demand for freedom and the rule of the people will be respected, which is a little strange, because the statement of intent in the free school legislation states that it must be a little difficult not to comply with it if you are going to open a free school. That is also something that is being supervised, so when we talk about giving freedom to the people and not interfering too much, how does that relate to the fact that a Minister from the Liberal Alliance himself intends to table such a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005150952	The fact is that in the Liberal Alliance we are wary of the good tradition we have for free primary schools in Denmark. But we are also not blind to the fact that there have been some schools, that there are some schools where the purpose clause is so challenged, that is to say, where you teach anything other than democracy and freeness of speech and to take into account the freedoms and gender equality and everything that we celebrate in Denmark and which is also part of the basis of value to which free schools must profess. It is true that we can see that, since we have actually succeeded in depriving those schools where there are problems, their subsidies, we have both legislation and supervision that works. What lies in what the Minister of Education wants to put forward is not a change in the law as such, in terms of what value it is that one should profess to be as a free school, but it is a greater guarantee that that is actually what is happening. And that is because we have seen that this has not always been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151049	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151050	Yeah, but excuse me, for me, it's just symbol politics. So quite real. That is symbolic policy, because the rapporteur himself says: we have supervision that works. And I shall be the first to praise the fact that the free schools that do not comply with the law are closed or have their subsidies withdrawn. I don't think anyone in this Chamber disagrees with that. We have supervision that works; we have some free schools that have recently been deprived of their subsidies, precisely because supervision works. So I just don't understand this new grip. It seems like a symbolic policy, and it seems a little • and now I am assuming something as if some other parties have perhaps allowed themselves to be pressured, who have wanted to see some tightening in this area, which has been much debated over the summer. Can the rapporteur confirm that if it had been the Liberal Alliance alone, perhaps we would not have had this legislative action that will certainly come?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151141	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151142	No, I can't confirm that. When I say that we have legislation that works and supervision that works and we can see that, otherwise we would not have succeeded in taking subsidies from those schools where things do not work, as they should, then it will not solve the whole problem, because the problem is that those schools have even arisen. In other words, schools have emerged which have been teaching for years on an anti-democratic basis and on a basis of value which is not at all what belongs in the free primary schools. So it is an attempt to maintain the value base that must apply in the Danish free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151219	Thank you. I just dribbled past Mr. Finn Sørensen, but it won't happen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151224	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur talk about Curly, and the rapporteur described him as a very strong person, despite the fact that he suffered from virtually all the diseases on which there are any names. Curly's problem was, of course, that he would very much like to contribute to society and I agree with him, because I have met him that it was a very strong person, despite the difficulties he was facing but he just could not contribute in the way that people are required to contribute, namely by ordinary work. He had the words of doctors and professionals that he had no working capacity left, yet he was refused early retirement on the basis of legislation supported by the Liberal Alliance, namely Mrs Mette Frederiksen's reform of early retirement, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. That's the fact about Curly. He finally received his early retirement pension, no, he did not; he was awarded it, but he died before he could get it paid the first time. Now my question to the Liberal Alliance is: will the Liberal Alliance be involved in the review under way of the reform to change the reform so that it will no longer be possible for municipalities to refuse early retirement to people like Krølle, who have no working capacity left?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151347	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151348	Now I do not want to go into the case of Krølle, but I think we agree that he had a very tough fate and was not treated well by the authorities. It is based on that history that we have brought up his idea of a social free card, and it has not just come into our program of principle or party program or is something that we stand and say at our national meeting, but it has actually been brought right into a proposal that the government has now put forward in the Folketing and which we hope will be supported for. It was Krølle's own idea that exactly the people in his situation should have the opportunity that we now hope others will be given thanks to him.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Excuse me, sir. I'm afraid I'm afraid to get close. Finn Sørensen more, because I keep skipping him. I am very sorry about that. Here you go for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151443	The President knows that I am a very forgiving nature, including to the President. It is true that it was Curly's idea, but Krølle wanted to get an early retirement so that he could get some rest in his life. It was denied him. I would like to read from the municipality's decision of 3 September 2014 where they refuse early retirement: • The reason is that, according to our assessment, it cannot be excluded • the fact that you have a working capacity that will enable you to become self-employed in earning work. I know that the rapporteur himself has met Krølle. He had no veins left to stick in. It wasn't possible to take a blood sample on him. Does the rapporteur not think that it is time for the Liberal Alliance to join, for example, in this matter? The Minister for Employment, who has clearly said that it will be necessary to change that legislation? We are missing a signal from one of the conciliation parties from another too, but let us start with the rapporteur's party. Can we get a signal that the Liberal Alliance will contribute to a change of law so that the municipalities will not be able to refuse early retirement to people who are as ill as Krølle in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151558	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151600	But we have, of course, changed the early retirement rules, and it was in fact on the basis of Krølle's case, so that completely obvious cases, which I agree with Krølle's case, need to be dealt with more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151619	Thank you. And then it's sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151623	I really think that Mrs Christina Egelund said many real things about the potential for Denmark and the opportunities that we have. I can be a little worried about whether it's changing into politics in the government. After all, Mrs Christina Egelund is in the chair on behalf of the Liberal Alliance alone, but one of the places where I think we are a little short is in relation to education. For it was the case that the Liberal Alliance went to the polls, that it would like to cut down everywhere in the public sector in order to make it a little smaller, and then it is as if the only place that has really got through with it is in the field of education. There you run 2% savings, just as far as you can see I believe that the total planned savings on education in Denmark are now 15 billion. kr. Towards 2021. I just want to say: is it really the view of the Liberal Alliance that we can save 15 billion? kr. In Denmark, vocational schools, colleges, higher education have no negative consequences for the students, for the students, for the future of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151730	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. Yes, it is the view of the Liberal Alliance that we in the Folketing have a collective obligation to ensure that citizens get as much money as possible for their tax dollars, because that is basically what the two per cent efficiency requirement is about, namely to keep making sure that we get it out of the resources we put into the public sector that we need. Then perhaps I also think that this discussion on education deserves a little more proportions than it is. I read yesterday that Eurostat has calculated that Denmark is actually the country in the European Union that spends the most on education in proportion to GDP, i.e. 7%, where the Swedes are just below us with 61⁄2%. And I think we can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151822	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151823	Yeah, I think we should be proud of that. I think that is a wise priority and I think that is one of the reasons why we are where we are. What I find a little provocative is that it is suggested, as it were, that it is easy to learn the same thing over a 5-year period by 10%. less hours; that you can obtain the same knowledge, insight, experience with other students with nine teachers where there are ten today. I think that the main concern about it is perhaps that it will give a distortion of Denmark. In other words, if the savings are translated into redundancies, it is equivalent to 17 000 fewer posts in the education sector outside the metropolitan area, and this means that there are young people who are getting longer for training and, therefore, probably also that fewer people are getting one. And I just think it is an insult to the education sector to say that they can easily cut 10%. of, without it having any impact on the education it provides.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151920	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005151923	So, an insult to the education sector, they say. Honestly, I miss a little bit of proportion in this. Denmark has one of the world's most generous education systems that we make available to our young people, and that is very good. I am very pleased that we have an education system in which, whatever social background you come from, you have access not only to get your education but also to get the SU while you are studying. Then, of course, you can always discuss whether it is violent with 2% efficiency or not. I mean, before I was elected to the Folketing, I helped run a private company for 10 years. I should like to say that for a great many small businesses in the years in which the crisis hit, it was a matter of survival to be effective, not by 2%, but in many places by 10, 15, 20 per cent. That's what you do, and sometimes the good news actually comes from finding smarter ways to do things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152014	Then we move on to the next one, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152019	Thank you. After all, there are many discussions about the forthcoming tax negotiations and about the tax agreement, which the government also needs a majority in order to implement. We have heard from the Danish People's Party that there are some that you can call the red or blue lines • there are some things that the Danish People's Party has said very stubbornly that they will not be involved in. However, I would like to ask whether the Liberal Alliance, as a party but also as a government party, will be involved in a tax agreement that does not provide top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152058	However, there are no top tax concessions in the proposal made by the government, so with all due respect I think the answer is actually self-evident. After all, the only top tax reliefs in the proposal made by the government are the advance of the top tax reliefs adopted by the previous government, but there are no measures in the proposal presented by the government at the end of August for new reliefs in the top tax. We would otherwise like to do so in the Liberal Alliance, and I think everyone is aware of that, but we have found that there is not really a mood for that in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152128	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152130	Let me rephrase. It has been calculated on this, and we should not just take the SF's words for it, because we also have the words of several economists that there is actually a greater gain for top taxpayers in terms of the increase in the employment allowance than if we had done what the Liberal Alliance proposed, namely to move towards the top tax itself. So hypothetically, if the DF stands firm on their word that it should not be given the most to those who already have the most to raise the employment allowance with what has been presented and if it is now being tampered out, how will the Liberal Alliance deal with an agreement where there is thus not being given, what should be said, masked top tax relief through an increase in the employment allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152225	I am pleased that the questioner then acknowledges at least in the second round that no top tax concessions have actually been made in the run-up to the government at the end of August. When we think that the removal of the ceiling on the employment allowance is important, it is of course important, partly because it facilitates the tax for Danes in work. We basically think this is a good idea. But then it is also because it actually provides a lot on the job offer, and this is needed if companies are to be able to find the heads and hands they need in the future. And then there is another relief that we have come through and which we are very pleased about, namely that for the third year in a row there has been a reduction in the registration tax on cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152304	Thank you. The next is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152308	Thank you. I do not really care about inequality in a Danish context. That is how I think the words fell from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur. That is laudablely clear speech, thank you for that, but at the same time something that may well be puzzled by an elderly rapporteur such as myself, who is often approached by pensioners, who only have a national pension and high medical costs and find it difficult to get the money going. But that's not really what I wanted to ask. I just had to comment on this, given that the speech was so clear from the rapporteur. I'm going to ask you about this situation of how we're getting older and older. It's nice that we live longer. That's good. There are also more who are healthy and healthy far up in age. Nevertheless, in 2025 we will have around 150,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age, and that will mean that if we are to keep to the level of welfare we have today, that is, the standard today in the country's nursing home, in the running home care, in hospitals, etc., then there will be a need for growth in the public sector. Can the rapporteur confirm that the policy that the government is going to pursue will mean a erosion of the level of welfare that we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152418	No, I can't. For what the questioner is referring to is what is called the demographic trait, which in many ways is such a plan-economic consideration of reality. For that is the premise that for each additional or every new person who comes, it may be a school pupil, it may be older, it may be what it may be that needs help in the public sector • it requires exactly the same cost or resource as the first 10 or 100, and that is not true, other than in such a theoretical textbook. So no, that's not right. But since the questioner is so concerned about this with the elderly and their economy, I would like to ask you a question: should I understand the fact that the Social Democratic Party is going to vote on raising the retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152505	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152507	I simply do not agree with the description of the demographic move. We have the figures from the Ministry of Finance. When they count on the demographic trait, for example, they have. We have taken into account what is called healthy ageing and the fact that we can treat people better in hospitals. So there's going to be a span, and that span isn't numbers drawn from a hat or calculated on some special red calculators. It's been rained over in the Treasury, which is over here. This shows that when we reach 2025, between 12 and 13 billion will be missing. kr. to keep the level of welfare we have today. Then I just have to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in another way: can the Liberal Alliance rapporteur point out how to make it happen with the everyday life in the nursing homes today, with the everyday life in home care, where you run very fast already today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152558	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152559	First of all, I should just like to say that the 2025 plan put forward by the Liberal Alliance prior to the last elections had taken account of the demographic features. But I still want to say that there is much of what is pure theory, or at least some of what is not really connected. But then it is true that, of course, we must have the resources to care for the elderly with the dignity and resources they now deserve. That is why we have an elderly minister who has taken the lead in removing bureaucracy in the care of the elderly, so that those who work to make the lives of the elderly better and as good as possible can spend more of their time on what they actually have to do, rather than sitting around filling out papers and schedules.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152649	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152654	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I have a brief and clear question: will the rapporteur confirm that with this removal of the ceiling on the employment allowance, the Liberal Alliance will have achieved a large part of its ambition to reduce the tax burden on the very wealthiest by facilitating marginal taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152719	I can confirm that if there were to be a majority in favour of removing the ceiling on the employment allowance, it would be a relief which massively increases labour supply in Denmark, and this is needed if there is to be affording some of the things we are talking about and which the honourable Member has just asked about worthy care for the elderly, for example. And other things. We cannot live, we cannot become more rich, we cannot have the wealth we want if there are not also people who are ready to take up the labour market. That is why we need the tax reforms that make it possible to increase labour supply in the best way possible, and this is done by removing the ceiling on the employment allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152757	Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152759	Thank you. I was at the Rolling Stones concert the other day, and Mick Jagger was singing after you can't always get what you want. Among other things: After all, the Liberal Alliance didn't really get those real top tax reliefs into the game from the government. But aren't these the de facto top tax concessions that the Liberal Alliance has got into the tax bill from the government anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152823	No, it's not. The top treasure is its own treasure with its own name and its own rate. What this proposal is about is removing the ceiling on what is called the employment allowance. And yes, it will provide a good and significant, much-needed tax relief for the Danes who go to work, and I think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152842	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152847	Thank you. The rapporteur and I share an objection to unnecessary bureaucracy. It is a waste of time for employees and it is a waste of tax dollars to spend money on unnecessary bureaucracy. So, if we are to be a little positive, let us say: when we get rid of unnecessary bureaucracy, a revenue from the money that we no longer spend on unnecessary bureaucracy will be created. What you do with that money is an interesting discussion, and I would like to hear what the Liberal Alliance's aim is to debureaucratize. Is it pouring money back into the system and increasing welfare? Or is it saying that the level of welfare is good enough and then pour the money back into the citizens' pockets in the form of tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005152938	Well, the gain that might be reaped by debureaucratisation and I think there's a big gain to reap can really go to both. It is clear that when you talk down into the concrete where a nursing home assistant, for example. All of a sudden, a lighter working day, a lighter workflow, because he or she no longer has to spend his time behind the computer or sit and fill out schedules, he or she gets more time for the elderly. This does not mean saving money in the public sector. This simply means that the elderly will receive more care for the time now spent in the specific nursing home.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153013	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153015	Now the rapporteur said that they would like to do both, and it is the case that this money does not come from less wear on the keyboard and less burning hours in the table lamp, but it comes from employee hours. So if we are to achieve this in order to be able to pay tax relief, as the rapporteur would like, then we need to stop paying the workers who carry out the bureaucracy, that is to say, firing them. Then I just want to hear, when the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech that employees are important to the debureaucratisation process, how the rapporteur imagines motivating employees to contribute to this process when you say: if you point at 10%. Of your time, which you spend unnecessarily, we sign off on firing 10%. Of all of you? Who is motivated by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153107	But I haven't said anything about that 10%. I had to be fired, so I don't know where the questioner got it from. But, of course, it is motivating for the individual public servant who has trained as a school teacher because he wants to teach, or has taken an education as a SOSU assistant because he wants to give good care to the elderly, finally to have the opportunity to get rid of the rules that annoy them every day and that prevent them from doing the work they want to do, namely to be something for the children at school or for the old people at the nursing home, or whatever it may be. Of course it is motivating, because I believe that they have taken the education because they want to make a difference to the people they are put in the world to care or educate, or whatever it may be. It is therefore a huge motivation in themselves that they can now finally get out of the bureaucracy that marts their working day every single day.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153156	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153159	Thank you. One of the decisions taken by the government, which I really think is so regrettable and which I think is so badly linked, is the decision that Denmark should no longer give shelter to 500 quota refugees per year. And Denmark has therefore taken quota refugees since 1979. One of the reasons why I think this is a bad thing is that all the parties say, in a way, all the time: we want to get round the backers. And how do you get that? That is precisely what is being done with the quota refugee system. All the parties say: we want to relieve the neighbourhoods. How do you do that? This is precisely what is being done with the quota refugee system. All the parties say that there are so many injustices in the asylum system; how we would like those who could lead the way to those who had the greatest need for protection. Well, that's exactly what you can do with the quota refugee system. Then the government said when it decided to do this: well, there will be so many asylum seekers. And so did 2015. 21,316 asylum seekers came in 2015. Not all of them were granted asylum, but there were many applicants. Now we are down to 2,254 asylum seekers, and again: not all of them are granted asylum. The Minister for Integration said the other day that it is historically low. How far do we have to go, according to the Liberal Alliance, before Denmark can retake quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153332	But the questioner is actually beginning with a good description of where it is that we would like to go to the ideal situation where the spontaneous asylum approach to Denmark or to Europe has stopped, because we have just got rid of the backers who are cruelly speculating in people's distress and where we can then take quota refugees instead. This is the ideal situation, and that is where we are working to get to. And small steps are also being taken in that direction. Europe's external borders are constantly being better managed and the number of asylum seekers is falling, as the questioner also says. But we are not there yet, and as long as we are not there, we also have to take stock of the fact that since 2015 in Denmark we have but I would really like to go to the ideal place that the questioner describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153425	Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153427	But that was simply not an answer to my question. And my question was simple. My question was: how far do we have to go before Denmark can again give shelter to quota refugees? Denmark is currently in force. the only country in the world that, in response to the refugee crisis, has decided to drop taking refugees. All sorts of other countries have done the opposite and said: Historically many people are on the run, so of course we are raising the quota. Denmark has said as the only country: we are dropping it. How far are we going down? I would like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund. And would it be a good idea if other countries in the world did like Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153509	In fact, I think this is too serious a problem to reduce it to where the bottom line is and what that number is we are pointing to. After all, it is a question of constantly pursuing a policy and making an effort to get to where we can take quota refugees again. That is why Denmark supports the agreement that the EU has made with Turkey. That is why we support the efforts that are being made to put an end to the perpetrators who are at risk of other people's lives on the Mediterranean. In other words, the questioner is sitting and shaking his head, but I cannot give a figure as to when we will be there, where the situation is so much under control that we can start again with the quota refugees. And it may well be that the questioner is not satisfied with that answer, but that is the honest answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153554	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153558	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that the Liberal Alliance is pleased and proud that the Minister of Education has removed these three thousand and some learning goals in primary school. We in the Alternative are very happy about that, because it is, after all, binding the teachers on their hands and feet to have so many goals; it does not make sense. Thank you. I would then like to know whether this also means that the Liberal Alliance would like to work to make the national tests voluntary, for the Minister of Education has previously wanted that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153642	First of all, thank you for the receipt that our Minister of Education has removed these absurdly many goals for the teachers. This does not mean that we think that we should stop measuring how things are going; it just means that this thing with a politically determined instrument of which exactly the method of getting there is now freed the teachers. But I still think that we should have a primary school where we also continuously measure how things are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153713	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153714	Thank you. I am asking because I heard the rapporteur say something in his speech about a curling state, as it is called; it is such a thing that you are far too much above your citizens and care too much about them. At least that's how I understood it. The rapporteur also said something about this one size fits all, and then I thought about the national tests. Isn't there some standardisation and one size fits all in it when you think that everyone should be measured according to the same parameters and that you should force all teachers and all schools to measure according to the same tests? So I do not quite understand why the Liberal Alliance will not do it voluntarily to have national tests in the public schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153754	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153755	But what is a curling approach, in order to use the same terminology, also for teachers, is that you tell exactly what tools they need to use to get to the goals that you basically agree are important, namely that the pupils should be well off in primary school and that the pupils should learn something in primary school. I think that is the most important thing. That you then have some national tests where you measure how things are going, I do not really think that is the big problem. The important thing for me and the Liberal Alliance has been, and is to set teachers free, to give them a free method of how they can also be more innovative in their work, and to take greater account of the difference that exists in running a school, for example. at Nørrebro and run a school somewhere in Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153844	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153848	Thank you. I am perhaps very pleased that, after all, there have been a number of older rapporteurs in the debate here, because I think it was actually lacking in the rapporteur's speech that something was mentioned in relation to the elderly area. I think it would be natural to do so because the rapporteur's party has been given a position of senior ministers. It is not exactly full of proposals on this in the legislative catalogue. In fact, there are no proposals. So I wonder if the Liberal Alliance has no ambition whatsoever on behalf of the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005153929	I have taken note of the publicity that has been given, also in the press, of what is in the Ministry of the Elderly's territory in the legislative catalogue, and I can only say frankly: LA does not participate in some world championship or Olympics in being the ones who legislate and regulate the most. We are here for the opposite, the Minister for the Elderly is here for the opposite. The Minister for the Elderly has an ambition to free the sosu assistants and remove the bureaucracy from the care of the elderly, and it would then be strange that you first coughed up with a lot of new regulation and a lot of laws. We are here because we believe that those who have trained to raise care in the older sector can actually find out. It would be weird to join something similar to an Olympic Games in regulating alleralds most when we actually believe that we are too much for the opposite. That is also why the Minister for the Elderly has set up a working group which looks carefully at the bureaucracy that is in the way of better care for the elderly, and that work is well under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154030	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154031	I guess legislation isn't necessarily the same as regulation now. It could also be improvements. When you look at the past year's time, you can see, unfortunately, that it has been teeming with really nasty examples of older people who have experienced that they have not received the help they need. It's a fact that when you get more and more older people to share the same money, it can be hard to get around it all. So I wonder whether the Liberal Alliance itself thinks that care for the elderly is good enough, as it stands today, and whether that is why there are no proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154109	However, this is a very strange approach to politics or to this problem at all, if you think that the fact that there are more older people means that we need more legislation and then we need more rules. If there is something we do not need, it is more legislation and more rules in this area. I have seen these articles in the newspapers, and some people are extremely concerned to say that the most important thing in the world is to come up with new rules and more regulation. In other words, during the last government, when Mrs Astrid Krag was Minister for Health and, of course, the area of the elderly under her authority, two legislative proposals were put forward in this area in four years' time, so it has to be said that the most important thing in the world is not to come up with new laws and new rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154149	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154153	Thank you. When the democratic trait is called a plan economic consideration, I just have to say, when at the same time we also know what the economic policy of the government means at the moment to care for the elderly, that it is a cold and cynical consideration to make. What I would like to ask is that it is clear from the government base and the government's 2025 plan that the government will increase growth by 80 billion. kr., of which it is 35 billion. DKK to come by increasing productivity. When you see the business package, which increases GDP by 760 million. kr., through the spectacles of the Liberal Alliance, one must ask: is it ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154249	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154252	I have to admit that it is simply not a lack of will, but I could not quite find my head and tail in the figures that the questioner listed, but then I have to guess. The questioner asks whether the government's policy in terms of creating growth and prosperity in Denmark is ambitious, and indeed it is. When we formed this government and wrote the government base, it was the government with the most ambitious goal in terms of both growth and prosperity and labour supply. If that is what the questioner was asking, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154325	Thank you. Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154327	Then I can help you with the numbers. According to the Ministry of Finance, the business package increases GDP by between 0.75 billion. kr. and 1,25 billion. kr. By comparison, the social democracy's growth reform increases GDP by 2 billion. kr. So I ask again: is it ambitious enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154355	I am well aware that the growth plan put forward by the Social Democratic Party at some point did not really provide any growth. Now it is the case that the government has not only put forward a proposal in the field of business. We have also presented a tax reform which will significantly increase labour supply, which reduces taxes on Danes at work, and which will enable us to increase private productivity and boost the private economy, because that is what we need to ensure that we have both welfare and that individuals have something to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154429	Thank you. And the last questioner is, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154436	Now it is the opening debate in the Folketing. Not long ago we had a final debate, the main theme of which was an urgent debate on a proposal for a begging law put forward by the government. And that law means that you are thrown into prison immediately, if under certain circumstances you sit and beg innocently and hand out your cup and ask for a fiver for a cup of hot coffee; then you go to prison for 14 days. To the debate, the Prime Minister said that it is not any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, which in principle risks 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but that it is targeted what can be called insecure begging. I would like to know whether Mrs Christina Egelund can confirm that this affects both Danish and foreign homeless people, in other words everyone, and that this affects begging, whether it is insecure or not, because this is precisely what the comments on the bill say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154535	Yes, I can confirm that, because we must not create discriminatory legislation in Denmark, fortunately not. We must not make legislation that says that if you are that or that nationality, you will be penalised, but not if you are something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154552	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154554	How does the Liberal Alliance feel about the Prime Minister of the government of which the Liberal Alliance is a part when presenting this bill stands and speaks untruely from Parliament's platform, that is, when the Prime Minister presents the bill? How's the Liberal Alliance feel about that? How does Mrs Christina Egelund feel about that? And does it have any bearing on how the Liberal Alliance is dealing with this bill, that is to say, that it has been adopted by a presentation given on a false and wrong basis from the parliamentary platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154625	What has been quite clear is also what has been said by the parties behind this bill that it was intended to contain the groups of beggars that have ravaged the streets of Copenhagen and other cities in the streets of Denmark and that have created insecurity for the citizens. But then it is true, as I also confirmed in my first reply, that in Denmark legislation is not made, which is only for special groups, and fortunately for that. Then I would just like to say in relation to this debate that it is not the case that something that was not criminal in advance has been criminalised. In other words, we are sanctioning exactly the same acts that were sanctioned in advance, namely begging. The penalties have been tightened up and this has had an effect on what was the purpose of the law that we introduced in June, and I am quite happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154714	Thank you. That was the last answer to the last question. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005154724	Thank you. Denmark is a lovely country, one of the best in the world. That is what the Prime Minister said when he opened the Danish Parliament in 2015, and on Tuesday he said almost the same thing again. And he is right about that, because Denmark is a nice country, yes, perhaps almost the best in the world. The fact that Denmark is so good a country is not least due to all those who have been here for us, all those who generation after generation have built and further developed our welfare society. It's our parents, it's our grandparents, hard-working people, entrepreneurial entrepreneurs, forward-looking companies, strong communities. Of course, it is also all the progressive pioneers who have breathed life into the cooperative movement, the women's movement, the workers' movement and all the other movements that have cast the foundations of this society on which our generation stands so firmly here today. The story of the Danish welfare society is a beautiful tale of responsibility, that each generation has a responsibility to ensure the living conditions and life opportunities of the next generation. One might say that we in this country are bound by a unique form of generation contract, a contract that obliges every human being, every generation, to take good care of society, so that the next generation has at least as good opportunities as we ourselves have had. For the alternative, it's crucial to live up to this generation contract. This requires that we maintain our ideals of freedom and freedom. This requires that we increase equality and equal opportunities, that we invest in education, health and social justice. But it also takes more than that. This requires us to take the climate crisis much more seriously than we do today. For the climate crisis, de facto, it is the biggest barrier that we can pass on a good society to our children and our grandchildren. Our generation is the first to experience seriously the consequences of the climate crisis. If you're in doubt, you can just look out the window. Animals and plants disappear from our nature, and the weather is becoming increasingly wilder and more violent. In fact, however, we are not just the first to feel the consequences of the climate crisis. We are also the last to do anything about it. The world's climate scientists have told us this time and again, and now we have to understand it. We must understand that the development, where animals and plants disappear from our forests, where the weather is going crazy, and where CO2 It is among other things. Therefore, we in the Alternative say that climate and nature and environmental policy are about more than just politics. It is about ethics, and it does, because it is not only environmentally irresponsible, but also ethically irresponsible, that we contribute to climate change. Because by contributing to climate change, we are actually helping to harm the lives, the people, animals and plants that are going to inherit the Earth after us. That is why it is also a matter of ethics. That is why we must ensure that in the future we are better at balancing society rather than in competition with climate, with the environment, nature and wildlife. We need to give more space to animals and wild nature. We must ensure our unique natural areas, both on land and on water. We must strengthen the conversion to renewable energy, we must invest in electric cars, in solar cells, in wind energy. We must keep the oil in the ground and say no to fracking, because we have a responsibility to ensure that the air we breathe and the water we drink are fresh and clean, even in the future. Then, of course, we must improve the conditions for ecology. We must reduce VAT on ecology, we must phase out the use of pesticides and we must demand that the public buy more organic products, because the food served in our public institutions should not be packed with pesticides. We must ensure all this because it is both a political and an ethical choice to honour our generational contract, and because through a serious sustainable transition we can ensure that Denmark is also a lovely country in the future, one of the best in the world, as the Prime Minister said. Another element that is essential for us in Denmark to be a wonderful country in the future is that we uphold our democratic principles and ideals of freedom. Denmark's strength is our freedom and our freedom. It is one of the most precious things we have, and we must never take it for granted. This was also one of the things the Prime Minister reminded us of in his speech last Tuesday. That is why it is a great concern in the alternative that our freedom and freedom are increasingly called into question, as well as the freedom and freedom that it has taken the blood and sweat and tears of generations to build. For example: We are spending a great deal of time discussing how women should be dressed, now again here today in the Parliamentary Chamber. But in a free, democratic society, it is only a private matter how one is dressed. This is certainly not something that we in the Alternative think or want the state to interfere in. Now the government will also make it harder to form free schools, and others have even proposed banning Muslim free schools. The free mind is one of the basic conditions of democracy, and in the alternative, we therefore believe that as a citizen of a free society, we should have the opportunity to start a free school without any suspicion of anti-democratic intentions. If freedom and liberalism still applied, the Folketing would probably not have passed a law restricting freedom of expression for certain people in society, even though we can very quickly agree that some people have a very stunted world view. But such world views do not disappear by means of legal measures. They must be challenged with better arguments. Because in a democratic society one convinces one another with the best argument, not by strangling the air of others. The alternative simply believes that everyone should be allowed to dress as they please, just as they should be allowed to believe and think and say what they want. We will not take that freedom apart, even if freedom can be turned against its originator. That is the way to live in a liberal democracy. There's always a risk. But freedom is denied only when that opportunity is suppressed. We must remember this when we discuss how to safeguard and safeguard our freedoms, because it must never happen that, in order to guarantee freedom and democratic values, we end up violating exactly the same values that we sincerely want to protect. So the principle of the generational contract, the need to invest in the green transition and the desire to secure our freedoms are, in the alternative's optics, one of the keys to whether Denmark will also be a great country in the future. But for us it is also not quite enough that Denmark is just the best country in because we know that these are big words, and we know that the challenges become bigger and much more complex when we look beyond our own nose tip. But the world is connected, and we are part of something bigger than ourselves. And if we are to help ourselves, we must also help the rest of the world. We must create hope for the world. In the Alternative's Finance Bill last year, we therefore proposed that Denmark increase climate aid by 10 billion. kr. that we increase development aid to 1%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I know here that the alternative and the government are miles apart. Nevertheless, I am very saddened that a rich country like Denmark has now become so poor in humanity and empathy that we will no longer accept the 500 quota refugees we have promised the UN. It is simply so sad that in this way Denmark is failing those of the world's most vulnerable refugees, just as it is sad that Denmark is thereby helping to undermine UN cooperation. By the way, the latter is not compatible with what we hear from the government. After all, we hear that the government stresses that Denmark must support international cooperation. The Prime Minister did so just last Tuesday. In fact, it was precisely the emphasis on how important the European Union is and how important the UN's global goals are, which brought me the greatest joy. I was led to hope, just as I had a great green hope, when the Prime Minister of the United Nations recently brought together a number of cities that have promised to meet the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, although their national policy is different. We would very much like to sign for that. But we must also stress that the alternative lacks the expression of green ambitions in national policy. It is now the third year in a row that the government is presenting a draft budget which cuts the green transition and increases inequality. That's not gonna work. Because we must ensure that Denmark is not only a nice country, but also the best country for and in the world, because we must live up to the obligations of our generation contract. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155722	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155728	Many thanks to the rapporteur and welcome as rapporteur in opening and closing debates. It is a cozy job where you can be asked all sorts of things, of course based on the rapporteur's speech here about the importance of being a good country, not only in but also for the world. If this should happen in this country and it is not to paint someone on the wall that a political majority would be obtained that would enable the Social Democratic Party to form a government, then the alternative would be to support such a government if CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155812	Thank you for your kind remarks about joining the good company. I've been looking forward to it, even with a certain amount of nervousness; that's how it is to stand up here for the first time in this way. In relation to the rapporteur's question, I would like to say that we have said this before, and we say it again, in relation to whom the alternative will point out and what demands we will make on a future negotiating leader and a future prime minister, it must first appear when we go further and, secondly, it must show itself in relation to what policy is being pursued. So our very clear position is that anyone who points to a policy that we can support in the alternative will have our goodwill in terms of negotiations and cooperation. But it's gonna show up when we get this far, that is, how it's gonna look.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155901	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155902	I don't know if it's a consolation, but it won't be less anxiety-provocative with time to stand up there. It is, of course, a good position to stand in, that is, to look at the time and see who is presenting a policy that one can vouch for. But will the alternative be able to support a negotiating leader who is pursuing a policy which will lead to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005155931	It is clear that for the alternative there are some areas which are very important politically. The green area is one of them, otherwise I would not have put so much emphasis on it in my rapporteur's speech either. I am not here today saying whether we want to point to one or the other, nor do we come from the alternative to make ultimate demands from up here. That is clear, and it would be foolish of me to do so too. However, when the rapporteur asks, as he does, I would also like to admit that the green area is one of the most important for the alternative, so it is clear that those with whom we work in the future must clearly improve the green area. It is difficult for me to see the alternative contributing to something that is detrimental to the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160013	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160021	I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the Swedish book entitled 'The banal goodness' by Ann Heberlein. A few days ago Kristeligt Dagblad wrote a little about that book and I think the rapporteur should consider reading it if the rapporteur is not aware of the contents of the book. For that is a diagnosis of what the rapporteur's speech expresses: banal goodness, boundless goodness, limitless tolerance, can naivety. I have to ask the rapporteur: when the rapporteur sees what is going on in the Danish Parliament as almost a hetz against the free schools, and one has to understand that when one hears the rapporteur where is it the rapporteur imagines that one can set a limit? Because it may seem that it is not in relation to striking young people with jihadism. Is the rapporteur in favour of Nord-Vest Privatskole, for example? Is the aid withdrawn? I mean, how tolerant do you have to be to deep, deeply intolerant people? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160120	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160123	In relation to boundless naivism and goodness, there's that fine picture of a carousel running around, and where you don't know if you're the one at the front, or the one at the back. So I just want to throw that back to the rapporteur. In relation to the free schools, I would like to say that, and I have also said this several times, I must be the first to say that we have no problem with the fact that subsidies are now being taken from some free schools which have not complied with statements of intent in the free school legislation. We support the fact that supervision works in a way that free schools that do not comply with the law must have taken away their subsidies. Of course they do. I don't have a problem with that. What I am mentioning from up here is that we actually have a free school legislation that works and a supervision that was actually tightened up in the spring of this year, I think it was, or it was at the end of last year. I don't remember. But it was actually tightened up, and we have a supervision to catch those fish in the net, and it's also being done, so there's no need to make further tightenings in the free school legislation. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160230	Yes, but I have to tell Mrs. Caroline Magdalene Maier that I think it's her and not me that's gotten bogged down driving around the carousel. Well, I still liked to find out something. The rapporteur must understand that there are some people in this country who do not agree with the values that form the basis of our country; women's equality, which I assume the alternative can sign, democracy and so on. Should we not, then, leave them behind to indoctrinate young people into having the same sick perception?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160312	It was an interesting choice of words to say whether we should not stop them from doing anything. Should we stop, can we say, a future business owner from cheating on taxes or not paying the taxes you have to pay? That is, in principle, the same question. How do you do something like that before? Basically, we have confidence that the people who live in society want the good and comply with our legislation. Because we have legislation to comply with. So it is also a question of trust. We have confidence in it, and then we have mechanisms to catch it if some people do not, and we also have confidence in those mechanisms. So I just don't see any reason for further tightening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160348	Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160355	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In the alternative, you have many ideas about how to make everyday life more expensive for Danish families, for example. a climate tax on beef, higher charges on the use of wood stoves and a climate tax on air travel. At the same time, you say that you care a lot about inequality. Will the rapporteur not explain to me what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160420	Yes. When we want to introduce taxes on some of the things that damage our planet, it is related to what I said in the rapporteur's speech: we have seen an obligation to ensure that those who come after us have the same opportunities as we have today. They will not have that unless we limit some of the pollution and environmental impact that we are facing today. So this is a necessary step towards securing our future generations. Compared with the inequality, we have put forward a financial bill last year, of which these taxes are part, but at the same time we go in and regulate a lot of things, which benefits them with the lowest incomes. Among other things: We double the green check to them with the lowest incomes. We'd like to lower the tax on work. So there are plenty of moves in our financial bill that increase equality, while at the same time introducing these taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160514	I assume, however, that the rapporteur recognises that when you make ordinary everyday consumption more expensive for the Danes, that is to say food in shops and travels and warming up your house, it does not hit so much the richest, because they will be able to afford to pay 10 or 15 kroner. more for a steak, but it hits those who don't have that much money. That is why I am surprised at the fact that, on the one hand, it is possible to propose making ordinary everyday consumption more expensive and, on the other hand, to say that we are very concerned about inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160552	Well, I can just repeat what I said before. At the same time as we are introducing some taxes, we are doubling, among other things. the green cheque, and we are lowering the tax on labour, so there are a lot of equality-building initiatives in our draft budget. We would like to introduce taxes on, among other things. meat, but there are actually also some places where we make it cheaper. We would like to make it cheaper to buy organic food, fruit and vegetables in general, nuts and all the other vegetable products, so that we can not overrule our agricultural land. So it's a weighing-up. It is clear that when you introduce taxes, it is because you want a change in behaviour that means that people do not buy so much meat but replace it with something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160630	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160638	Thank you. I took note of the fact that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier said something about balance rather than competition. I think that was actually a very good little word game, and I would like to dwell a little on some of the imbalance we see in the SF, namely that the increase in mental disorders in general, but especially the increase in mental disorders among children and young people, is strong. This is an imbalance which we must assume is socialised. After all, we would like to have a calm reform and hope that the alternative will play a part in this. Earlier today, my colleague Mr. Jacob Mark also put questions to Mrs Mette Frederiksen and said that we would like to introduce free psychological assistance for young people. I would like to know what the alternative is like there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160731	We are clearly in favour of this. I even think, if I remember correctly, that there has been a motion for a resolution on this in the House that we have voted in favour of. But it may also be that I am the one who misremembers. I know that this is a SF proposal, and I support it today, and we have done so in the past. I would like to comment on it anyway that somewhere, although it is a sympathetic proposal, and although we would like to support it, a little will be a symptom treatment of something that is basically wrong in our society. I also only hope that the SF will help to recognise that it may well be that, for a period or for that matter in general, we should have it as a buffer, but that is not where the real problem lies. The real problem lies in the need for psychological assistance at all, for example. when you're young. So it's more to say that we have to remember that there are some very fundamental areas we need to address if we really want to solve this problem. It seems to me that we have also put forward some very sensible proposals there, such as the one we are discussing here. to reduce the weekly working time, and a lot of things in the field of education in order to get some of this character race and performance race away from children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160837	It is absolutely correct that we should not just treat symptoms, and that is also why we are proposing to do a calm reform here. It is an expression of a strain that will be too great for a great many people, and we must, of course, look at that too. What I was just interested in hearing was whether we could count on the alternative if we put forward a proposal on it, because it was a little harder to discover what the Social Democracy wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160912	But you can count on it. You can count on our support for that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160924	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005160927	Thank you so much for your speech. We radically agree with many of the things that were said. There was one thing that was not so much time spent on, and it did not really do so in the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, but it is of course a problem that needs to be addressed: the fact that companies find it difficult to find the people they need to meet the orders that are or to build the houses that need to be built, and also that in the public sector they find it difficult to get staff in the care of the elderly, nurses for hospitals. And the longer you get away from the big cities, the bigger the problems, both public and private. What is the alternative about the acute challenge and what can be done to ensure that we do not run out of people, both in the welfare institutions and in private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161010	After all, there is a reason why we have also proposed that we reduce working time over time to 30 hours, because in the alternative we would actually like to share work more. Then there is one question, too, in relation to the fact that we need to use some of the people who come to our society much more actively in order to fill some of the many jobs that are there. It is quite clear that the tripartite agreement has been a huge help to this, and that is why we need to do much more of it and to a large extent also in relation to the upgrading of skills in relation to the jobs that are lacking. So we have to take advantage of the fact that we also get people to Denmark, which is actually really, really good. And as the Prime Minister himself said in his speech on Tuesday, the people who come to Denmark create more value than they do not. I think that is a very positive signal and I think that we should continue to work on it in the future in order to fill some of the jobs that are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161111	It may seem sympathetic that people should work less, but it is not certain that it solves the problems of companies that they do not have enough people for the work that is already there. And we are currently in a situation where there are, I think, just under 300 vacancies as SOSU assistant in the care of the elderly in Denmark, lots of nursing positions that cannot be filled, and unskilled jobs that cannot be taken care of at Danish companies. One of the things that worried me is that, in fact, the rest of the opposition agree to have made it harder to attract foreign labour to Denmark, the greencard scheme was removed, raised the limit of the amount. Was it not a place to go together, namely to make it easier to attract foreign labour, even if we must spare the left in that struggle?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161203	I would like to confirm that, and that was just a repeat of what I said before. Of course we should look in that direction, I think we should. I would also say that there is something in relation to making it attractive for those born in Denmark, for that matter, to seek some of the jobs that are unemployed. I was with the Education Committee in Finland a few weeks ago, and it was interesting how there is super much prestige up there in staying, for example. primary school teacher they take in something that looks like 10% of those who are looking for and I was so sad that we don't have the same thing in Denmark. After all, the investment in education, which I know we also share with the Radical Left, with which we need to do much more, is not just about primary school teachers; it is also about educators and some of the others in our welfare society who fulfil what I think are the most important tasks at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161248	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161252	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Magdalene Maier for a fine rhetorical speech that really cared about the linguistic details. It was wonderful to hear the concept of the generation contract applied, because it is a good old conservative, Burke of the 1700s, who has formulated it, so I appreciated it very much. I'd like to ask you a few questions about entrepreneurship. Our Conservative Minister for Business, who has sat down right next to me, makes it easy to refer to him, has set up this entrepreneurship panel, and they recently made their recommendations. We have the challenge in Denmark that the business community is doing well, but that we need new businesses. We can see that jobs are being created in particular. They need to be able to hire more. In Denmark, the eight most valuable companies are on average 92 years old. So we are challenged on entrepreneurship in Denmark, and I know that this is something that is also very much at the heart of the alternative. Therefore, I would like to hear what the Alternative thinks about the recommendations that have come from the entrepreneurship panel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161355	Thank you for that question. I don't remember all of them. I remember the Minister being very enthusiastic when the panel was set up and when the recommendations came. I would first of all like to acknowledge very much that an initiative has been taken, because we fully agree that entrepreneurship is one of the things that we must have promoted much more in Denmark. One of the recommendations on which we agree with the entrepreneurship panel is on this issue of giving a higher deduction for investing in entrepreneurship, i.e. in entrepreneurship. Where we may part a little, it's about the panel I guess... I guess... recommends something about shares in listed companies. I do not really know how many entrepreneurial companies are listed, i.e. I think there may be a small barrier there. On the whole, however, we are very positive about the recommendations made by the panel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161449	I am very pleased that the alternative sees it as positive. After all, there are, in fact, several of the recommendations that have come from the entrepreneurship panel, but also some of those that the Alternative itself has previously proposed in their entrepreneurship package, which are part of the initiative that has come from the government. In any case, there is such a thematic overlap, among other things. in relation to the investor allowance, but also this with the opportunity to pay with employee shares. So I just want to finally see if the alternative is willing to negotiate this with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161522	It is clear from the outset that these are areas in which we share communities of interest. On the whole, we are always open to negotiations, so of course the alternative is open to negotiating entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship solutions with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161535	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161538	Then I would really like to stay on that ball street, because it may be very important to secure investment and capital for entrepreneurship, but the package that the government has put forward and which also the entrepreneurship panel has brought in • many of the points are almost identical • is, at the same time, a package that will contribute significantly to increased inequality in Denmark, i.e. it is significantly more unequal than what we see in the tax proposal. It is, in fact, just a tax issue, because it is just a matter of capital tax and not labour income, but of abolishing, for example, capital tax. The progression on the taxation of shares I would say that you can hardly get a more biased distribution profile by facilitating any tax in Denmark than it. So, of course, I would like to hear the alternative's position on that. After all, this investor allowance is a state aid. We use community funds to support getting some money out to work somewhere. When you do that, it is not fair that you make demands the other way, so that you actually spend this money to create incentives for a particular behavior, for example. In order to ensure that these investments are made by companies that actually contribute something extra to society, all companies contribute to creating jobs, but contribute something extra, for example. in the green area, e.g. on social economy or the like? Does the alternative just support this kind of state aid without any requirements, without counter-requisites for companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161715	Now I said that we were willing to enter into negotiations. I did not say that we necessarily supported the whole package, which is in relation to the entrepreneurship panel. It is important to emphasise this. That is one of the things Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentioned, namely the taxation of shares. The low level of taxation, which is being proposed and which I think is 27 per cent, is one of the things that we are completely critical of. We believe that things are going in the wrong direction. It is even lower than in the other Nordic countries. So that is at least one of the measures that we do not immediately support. So it was more to deny that we had to support the whole package. With regard to the second, the deduction for investment, I would say that in what we are proposing, there is, in fact, a difference in the percentage of deduction, depending on what you invest in. If I don't remember completely wrong, and I don't know all the figures in my head, I think we say 50 per cent. in relation to entrepreneurship in general and actually a 100% reduction if it is green and social economic enterprises. So there is, after all, an incentive for more support for entrepreneurs who have a green profile or a social economic profile.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161817	Thank you for that investigation. Another question is, of course, where the money comes from, because for us in the Enhedslisten it is at least the case that we can quite easily redistribute within the business support that is already in place, for example. in the direction of this type. If you could create a special green investor allowance or something like that, we would certainly be taking a look at it, but the funding that lies right now is the same as the other tax agreement, that is to say, a financing that takes money from the so-called room for manoeuvre, money that has previously been promised to be used for welfare, or from the transfer income. Is that something the alternative can accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161858	No, it is clear that this is funding that we are critical of. When I refer to it here, and this is the alternative entrepreneurship package, it is fully funded in our own draft budget from last year. It is quite clear that this is where we find the money, i.e. by retrieving it elsewhere. As stated in our Finance Bill, we find funding for our entrepreneurship proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161919	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005161922	Thank you for that, and above all congratulations on the political rapporteurship, and congratulations on a well-implemented speech here at the opening debate. That was really nice. These are ecotobes, I think the campaign is called, at the moment, and the policy of the alternative is to impose 100 per cent. organic farming in Danish agriculture. It is also the policy of the Alternative that new technology and green entrepreneurship can help ensure a sustainable transition. Why, then, do I think, as a green rapporteur in the Liberal Alliance, that the alternative does not recognise green entrepreneurship and the technological developments that have been created and are still being created throughout Danish agriculture, even long before the ecology was invented as a fire at least, a development that, among other things, was created. has created the basis for a Danish food production, which is one of the most sustainable and, it can be said, least affects our surroundings compared to our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162039	If I understood the question correctly, the questioner asks why we do not recognise the sustainable agriculture that already exists in Denmark. I do not know whether we understand the same thing about sustainable agriculture that already exists in Denmark. Of course, that may be the question. Our very clear purpose is to say 100 per cent. organically in 2040 in a gradual phase-in. We have made an agricultural package which will soon come, and some of what we are proposing here is precisely one of them. to grant some state-guaranteed loans to some farmers who want to start with organic production. It is simply because we believe that the future lies in ecology. We can also see that the foods that sell in the supermarkets right now are organic foods, so the people want them too. That would also be strange, I would say, but there you may disagree that you would not rather eat an apple that is not filled with spray poison than an apple that is full of spray poison. So the whole point of this is to say that we want a hundred percent. organic production over the long term in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162147	I think that many in Denmark will agree with me that if you want to consume healthy and clean and sustainable and climate-friendly foods as a Danish consumer, the choice would be: Buy Danish, buy Danish. But the development I mentioned earlier in Danish agriculture in general has meant that today we actually need only half as much agricultural land as 50 years ago to feed a person. Also in relation to this nature and biodiversity agenda, which the alternative would like to set and which the Liberal Alliance actually wants, is it not a positive development in the eyes of the Alternative when we think about increasing biodiversity and promoting wild and free nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162240	This is a super-positive development, and we would very much like to credit it to the Liberal Alliance in order to support it too. This is a superpositive development and we hope that the Liberal Alliance will have a positive impact on the government in relation to that agenda. So we think it's really good. When we have some objectives called 100 per cent. ecology by 2040, that's because that's where we're going. We are certainly on our way, but we must not lower our ambitions along the way. We need to think out loud and visionary about what kind of agriculture we want. We would like to see an organic farming which is sustainable, which does not torment the land in the same way as it does now, since, moreover, we do not need as much agricultural land as we do today to produce animal feed for cattle, among other things, which will feed us human beings. We have to think it all around, so we're just super-ambitious about the future of agriculture. That's where we're standing, and we're super excited that LA is out to make the positive announcements you've made here recently.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162338	We are trying to find another liberal, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162349	Thank you very much, but the Conservative Alternative has, of course, been opposed to almost all of the otherwise very sensible tightenings we have made in the field of foreigners. Now we hear Mrs Mette Frederiksen say that she will continue that course. One might then ask oneself whether one believes in that, since that was also what Helle Thorning-Schmidt said, but which she did not. But if there is a red government led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who wants to pursue a strict immigration policy, then the alternative would certainly be able to support it, for example. the rules we now have in the area of family reunification, integration benefit, border controls? Would the alternative stand up for those things and continue to point to a red government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162437	I think I should start by repeating that I am not standing on the platform today, giving guarantees for either one or the other, or telling who we are pointing to, or what must lie with the guarantees or promises given, so that we point to someone. But that being said, it is clear that it is not difficult to see. You can go in and look at the Parliament's website and see what the alternative has voted for the rigours mentioned by the rapporteur. This is not a tightening up which we think is the right way to go in Danish politics. We recognise that we have problems in our society, as we have always had, but we believe that the way in which the current government has approached them and some of the solutions supported by the Social Democracy are not the right way to go. So it is clear that at any time in the Alternative we will work to ensure that as much of our policy as possible is implemented. And what that will really mean in a negotiating situation, we will see when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162531	Thank you. I have little doubt that the alternative will work in a certain direction, nor do I have any doubt as to what the alternative means in relation to the many debates we have had. I can see how the alternative has voted. But that wasn't my question. My question was: will the alternative be able to support a red government which, for example, is: do not change the family reunification rules, which do not abolish border controls and which do not alter the integration benefit? It's just to take the three questions. And then, is there any other thing that will be an absolute pain limit for the alternative? So I'm not asking what you're gonna work for, I'm asking if you're gonna be able to support a red government that doesn't change these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162609	The questioner was allowed to ask four more times if he was allowed, but I do not give any answer from up here, where I give any guarantees about what we would support and what it took for us to support or what was not necessary for us to support. It is simply not right for me to say here today what the alternative will take in and out, I was saying when the time comes that a new government may have to be formed. Then it is said again: yes, we are super critical of many of the rigours that have been, and we really think that is the only right thing in terms of the political position we have. The most recent thing we have seen is that 500 quota refugees are not going to be taken to Denmark, what we have done since 1979, we actually find a little indecent. That's where we stand. But when we are in the situation that we are about to look at prime minister candidates and the next election etc., we will take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162700	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162702	Thank you. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur said at some point that we are some who want to interfere in how some dress. Who told you that? What we have talked about in relation to burka is that in Denmark we communicate with the face. We use the face when communicating, it is part of the Danish form of communication, and we demand of our fellow citizens that they show face. And that has nothing to do with us interfering in how people dress. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that when we communicate in Denmark, it is with an open face?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162746	In other words, I think it is quite clear that it is interfering in how people dress if they make a proposal that it should be forbidden to have, for example. A burka on 'cause it's a garment. I think it was the chairman of the Social Democratic Party who said that for her it was not a garment no, it was not, it was the rapporteur of the Left, I think, who thought it was a mobile something that I do not remember what was. So it's in our optics to interfere in how people dress. Are we communicating with the face? Yes, we do. Would I have any problem meeting a woman on the street? I don't, because there aren't many of them, but that's another problem, because the scale of the problem could we also discuss in relation to these burkas that wore a burka? No, I wouldn't. What does that do to me? Why do I get smaller shoes to wear when I meet someone on the street who has chosen to dress a burka? I simply cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162842	It's not just about meeting the person. That is also what lies behind it, i.e. the symbolism behind it. I do not know whether the rapporteur has ever debated with someone in burka or niqab; that is not funny. But I want to move on to another subject, and it is a question that concerns Denmark and the Danish values. Does the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party believe that there is something called Denmark and something called the Danish values?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162909	I think we believe that there is something called Denmark. Is there anything called Danish values? Yeah, I think there is, too. So, it has to be on its own account, because I do not know what the rest of my parliamentary group thinks about whether there is something called Danish values. But I actually think that the Danish values are some of those mentioned by the Bishop in the Church of Castle the day before yesterday I saw that Mr. Naser Khader was also there for humanity, neighbourly love and dignity. These are some of the Danish values that I certainly value, even in this respect, as they were mentioned, in the sermon that was, precisely that it is Danish to share, and that we must treat all people with dignity, both those who come from here and those who come from afar. So, yes, I would say that is Danish values to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005162956	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163000	I guess we'll never agree on this, i.e. about adults being free, yes, that's a funny word... must be able to choose to wear a burka or niqab. Let us then try to turn the debate in a different direction. Does the rapporteur really think that it is right for us in Denmark to teach children that it is quite acceptable to have women covered and that women are subject to men? Is it quite reasonable that we say to children that they must accept this and that it is also part of living in Denmark, that is, that there should be this systematic oppression of women? That is what we teach children when we say that this is just fine, that it is free and that it is an expression of freedom to wear burka. You want us to teach kids that? Is that really what we should be known for in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163059	But the word creates what it mentions. So when the rapporteur says that the burka itself is oppressive, that is what the rapporteur understands about a garment; a garment cannot be oppressive, it is a garment. What can be oppressive is the value we put on it. How about the rapporteur's apologies to the author, now I'm beating up the fact that a burka is women's oppressive, question mark. Are there 200 women who wear burka in Denmark? I don't know who spoke it, but at some point that was the number I heard. Half of them are Danes converted to Islam. Is that a sign that those women are oppressed? Well, I would really like to ask you back because I certainly do not have the knowledge that the questioner seems to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163159	After all, it is quite common knowledge of the religion of Islam that this is the purpose of women having to be covered, namely that they are subject to the man. It must be a minimum that we can agree on, that is to say that that is the purpose. If that was the case, it was just such a freedom thing, and it just...
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163241	A garment like a burka is a symbol, that's exactly right. It is associated with a certain religion. Are the women who profess the burka I was saying so necessarily forced into it in modern Denmark in 2017? Maybe the questioner thinks so. I have no reason to claim that they are, more than other people may feel compelled to wear any other clothes or without any clothes, or what do I know? Well, what about the women inside the synagogue in Krystalgade who sit up on the balcony while the men sit down on the floor? Well, that's where we are, isn't it? Or what about the priests of the Catholic Church, who are only men, because there must be no women? If we're gonna have this discussion, it's gonna have to be on the whole principle level.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163326	Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163329	Thank you. It is clear to everyone that the alternative is the green answer to Denmark. You want to get on that horse. Therefore, I would like to test the balance between the social and the green of the alternative. If we all imagine that we are moving to 100% ecology, then it will be the case that we will have much fewer food in the world. We will have more hunger and poverty. Food prices will rise because it costs more agricultural land if you have to produce the same amount of food products; that would be roughly equivalent to Denmark having the whole size of England. How does the alternative balance the social profile with the green one, if it is the case that the green policy of the alternative is implemented, because then we will have more hunger and poverty in this world?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163433	It is then a claim that I do not profess. But the questioner is quite right to say that it should not be seen in isolation. If we take the premise that we can grow more tomatoes that are not organic than if we grow them organically, then it is true that they require more space to be grown on. But it must be seen together with the rest of the alternative's proposals on the environment. We must, among other things, do something about it. have significantly reduced food production, among other things: It could also be used, for example, for the production of cattle, which accounts for a great deal of both the pollution that exists, i.e. methane and CO2. organic production of fruit and vegetables. So that way it has to be seen in a larger context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163524	Thank you. One more moment in relation to the price of the green conversion could be to look at the energy conciliation that is now running out, namely by 2020. The alternative is very enthusiastic about the PSO tax, I understand, which is now coming into the Finance Act. After all, it was thought that the PRS tax would cost a billion and a half in 2012 when we adopted the energy settlement. It was then almost 25 billion, and I can hardly calculate in percentages how much you have exceeded that budget. Does the alternative agree that this is a very bad way of conducting energy policy, that is to say, budgeting so foolishly that responsibility for what is happening is being rolled over to taxpayers and not to those who invest in the green transition, because that is what is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163617	I should like to start by saying that, in relation to the very technical calculations of the PSO and such things, I have to refer to our very competent rapporteur in this area. I think the questioner can have a talk with him afterwards, because he is much more in the business than I am. But basically, we have to pay for the pollution that we are helping to create. It was, after all, part of the PSO tax that we are simply paying in relation to the electricity consumption we have and the way it is burdening our resources. We basically have the opinion that yes, we must. That is why it is also the case that our entire tax policy is about saying that we would like to have lower taxes at the bottom, among other things, and that we would like to make it cheaper with less taxes on fruit and vegetables, which are organic, whereas we would like to tax consumption and pollution. So that way, yes, it is our policy that we should have a more balanced policy in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163709	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163712	Thank you, President. When I sit and listen to the alternative rapporteur's answer here today, I can only say that in terms of value policy there is no more extreme party than the alternative here in the Danish Parliament. It is, of course, a position that must be taken, but to say that, for example, we have to have a common position. A burka is not an expression of something that is women's oppressive, is quite thought-provoking. I could ask another question about these things: if you see on Nørrebro a large parade of people with a Muslim faith you have to believe where all the men first come migrant, and then the women come into a group behind the men, is it an expression of women's oppression, or is it just an expression of women's choice to go after men like that, because it is an expression of their own feelings of freedom? How are you going to extend this new way of defining free-thinking people of Muslim origin or Muslim faith?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163822	But that is interesting because, under the question put by the questioner, the premise is that women have been forced to wear burka, but where does the questioner know it from? This is, of course, just the premise that I contest, that is, the burka is women's oppressive because the woman has been forced to wear it. Is a burka as a garment women's oppressive in itself? Would it be women's oppressive if I took, what do I know, a kalot or a hat or something? Why is a burka women's oppressive? That is the premise that I am not buying. Then I would like to be the first to say: yes, there are problems with social control, and yes, there are certainly women who have been forced to wear burka by their men. But if the fact that some people are going to be there is to be the reason why we legislate that no one should dress a burka nor those who do it voluntarily, because I think there are some of them too we are doing the wrong thing. We must, of course, go in and attack the problems that exist, but it is only a pity that we do not attack them in a way that will help those women who are undoubtedly in trouble. I don't see how this proposal will help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005163933	Now, of course, I also recognised that the alternative value policy is a very extreme party. It wasn't really because I didn't respect the fact that you could be here in the Folketing with an opinion that the burka is something quite natural, and that a woman, of course, if she's going out and it's sunshine, can wear so much clothes on her body that there isn't a crack left where some sunlight can come in. I understand that and you can have that position, but I do not agree with it at all. I was just trying to figure out how far I'm going to extend that new women's fight, which is that the woman herself has chosen to be shrouded. Should I also extend it to apply when there is a parade on Nørrebro, where all the men come in front and all the women go in the back because they are forced to go in the back? Should I also extend the view of women that it is quite natural, because women have chosen that for themselves, and they have their freedom to go behind men? Is it also an expression of the alternative's view of this that it is a perfectly natural thing in Denmark that the woman should go behind the man? It's like turning it upside down compared to the woman's fight that used to be. I must say that something has happened since the red socks fought for the women's case in Denmark; come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164043	What about the woman who chose to dress the burka? Should her husband say, "You can't do that?" It is because the questioner does not believe that it is possible for oneself to choose to dress in such a way. I would never wear a burka. I'd think it was weird. But does this mean that everyone else should not like it or like it? I can't decide that. I don't know anything about that. I can't assume that putting on a burka in itself is women's oppressive. On the subject of parade: if you go in a parade on Nørrebrogade and the men have told the women to go at the back, it is women's oppressive. And if you live in a home with a man and he tells your woman, wife, wife to put on burka, it's female oppressive. But if she chooses, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164129	Thank you. We can just reach a single South Jutland liberal here in the end, Mr. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164140	Thank you for the warmth and dignity of the President-in-Office of the Council to give me the floor. The alternative party program says, freely after memory: smaller state, more society, binding communities. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is felt that a woman in a burka has the right conditions for entering into a binding community in a liberal, free society in which one looks one another in the eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164212	From one to another, I can at least say: yes, I would certainly not argue the opposite, because why should a woman in burka not have the prerequisites for entering into a binding community? What exactly limits that woman from entering into a binding community if the will is there, if the interest is there, if the commitment is there? Is it then the garment that makes it impossible for her to be part of a binding community? I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164250	If you look at some of the initiatives that can be expressed when you talk about a binding community, the fact that you look at each other, the fact that you are part of a community where you have some common activities, and where you have a recognition that your identity is also that you are in a working community, does the rapporteur believe that being in a burka gives the right conditions, the right foundation, to be part of this community?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164324	In any case, I do not believe that it can never provide those conditions. I believe that it can provide the conditions that exist for the parties that are now in this community. I see no obstacle whatsoever to this being possible. Then you can easily discuss whether there is an employer who does not want a woman in burka sitting at the cashier in Netto, or what do I know. Okay, I'm not gonna make that decision. But to think that when you wear a burka you cannot form part of a binding community, I think that is simply a wrong assumption. I'm not buying that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164358	Thank you. Then I would like to say a word of thanks to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier for the work she has done today. Before I give the floor to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Seligman, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left, I should like to inform you, regarding the physical well-being of Members, that we are going to take an evening break from 8 a.m. Approx. 6:00 p.m. 19, so that everyone can keep the body in good condition. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005164436	I should like to make a brief interruption to the current debate on the burka debate in order to talk about something that concerns me, namely the future. It was with great pleasure that we heard the Prime Minister tell about the meeting with the enthusiastic young people with courage for the future and the desire to travel out into the world on Tuesday. And perhaps some of the enthusiasm and courage for the future could be missed in listening to the debate in here today, but nevertheless I think it was beneficial. I very much agree with the Prime Minister, for he stressed how reckless it is if one thinks only of the present and does not sufficiently prepare for the future. But perhaps I also think that in all that talk about young people the Prime Minister forgot something in his speech, namely to tell us what the government's billion savings in education actually mean for the same young people. This applies to professional academies, universities, professional colleges, vocational schools and colleges, and nobody goes by. Almost 15 billion. kr. The government's planned savings are buzzing up to. At a time when we have to understand that things are going very well, said the Prime Minister in Denmark, is this really the best way to prepare for the future? Does massive savings in training for the Third Finance Act in a row give rise to an increase in the flight length that the Prime Minister was talking about? The answer is no. But in many ways it is a good example that the consequences of the decisions we make here in the Danish Parliament often come to light much later and are often borne by those who come after us, and often, without their voice and their dreams being involved along the way. For example, if you had... Asked British young people, they would have preferred a future as part of the European Union, but they woke up to a Brexit and they must live with the consequences of a choice made by older generations over their heads. Similarly, American young people must live with the consequences of an American President's decision to withdraw them from the Paris International Climate Agreement, although they, at least a majority of them, would have preferred a president whose aim was to strengthen the green transition. So it is today, also in Denmark. We politicians talk and talk, but we listen too little to those our decisions touch on: the next generation. And the prerequisite for changing that is that we give a vote to the future, which is why I have chosen today to give some of my speaking time to young people, more specifically to Jens Phillip, who graduated this summer. I quote: When I graduated, it was with a sea of other young people. Known different young people, with very different backgrounds. But all as one committed youth. Ambitious kid. Young people with a will and a desire to develop themselves, explore the world, become wiser and make a difference. And society gave us the opportunity to do that by opening up our opportunities. By giving us space and space, to form and train us, by creating the framework for us as young people. To unfold and live out our potential. For the joy and benefit of ourselves and our society. It was this summer, by the way, when I graduated from Langkaer Gymnasium in Aarhus - I, Jens Philip Yazdani. Now I am president of the Association of Danish High School Students. And I fear that society is breaking the generational contract that has given us young people the opportunities we have. We young people; we are Denmark's future. We are Denmark's greatest potential. A potential that society must not waste cannot afford to waste and cannot afford to waste. Because we're the only thing that society has. It is us and our abilities that you must live on when you grow old. Denmark does not have large amounts of oil in the underground. Denmark has the young people and the education we give them. But even if we are young people as Denmark's raw material, you cannot just treat us as another product to be produced, processed and prepared for sale. We are also young in our own right. Like young people who are curious and committed and who must search, explore and challenge the world. And we have to have room for that. Because we can. And we will. We have dreams for the future, for ourselves and for each other. For Denmark. We have ambitions. And it is important that you, as adult politicians, remember it. That you are aware of your responsibility for the growing generation. For us, youth. For young people, Denmark's future is. We are Denmark's future. Unfortunately, you seem to have forgotten. That you have forgotten what value and potential we hold. Or that you, even worse, may not care. Well, at least you're doing politics like that. By introducing training ceilings and character requirements, thus excluding us from education. By introducing drive reforms and quick start bonuses and thereby whip us into action and through. By weakening our SU, which is the prerequisite for our education and everyone's opportunity for education. And by imposing massive billion cuts on our education. 14.9 billion! That's how much you'll save. On education. On the youth. On the future. On us. At our high schools, we lose four million lessons. And it's for the same number of students. This means less time for the individual learner, worse feedback and less prepared teaching. We're getting worse education. And it is the same story in higher education and in our vocational training. Everywhere, the quality decreases as a result of your short-term and unambitious training cuts. The training cuts that are yet another part of an anti-education, anti-youth, and outright anti-frequent policy of the future. As you lead. Instead, we believe that as a society we should give priority to young people. And invest in our youth. That you should let us exploit our potential. All we want is for you to create the framework. That you give room for youth, for us. That you're giving us options. To live out our potential. For the joy and benefit of us as young people and you as adults. Give us some room. Drop the drive reform. Drop fast-in-way-fast-through-thinking. Drop the character race and the performance pressure. Give us options. Drop the character requirements. Drop the training ceiling. And drop the massive billion cuts. Create the framework with space and space and with proper funding. It's our wish. As students and students. And that is why right now we are standing over, in Aalborg, in Aarhus, in Odense, in Copenhagen and in Rønne, and demonstrating. It's with that wish. The desire for space and confidence in young people and proper frameworks. And if you, as politicians, can fulfill that desire if you open up the possibilities, if you show confidence in us, then we promise that we will live up to our responsibilities. That we're gonna exploit and live out our potential. For the joy and benefit of all of us - and for our common society. Quote out. It was Jens Philip's words to us that they were bubbled, both to the present and to the previous government. Decisions which I have helped to shape and promote are also in the pipeline. And my goal today is not to point fingers, but to call for assembly. This year approx. 60,000 children in Denmark or 335 human fates for each member of the Tinget. Our decisions in these years shape the future of these children: We have not inherited Denmark from our parents. We have it on loan from our children. So what are we gonna do with our powers? Should we be walled in and be enough ourselves, or should we seize the global development plan, the UN's 17 worldwide goals, and make it our common compass for the future of Denmark and for our commitment to the world? Because even if things go well, there's still a lot to do. And we can lead with our example, as we have done with the welfare state, the green transition, research, innovation and education, and, above all, with the quota refugees who for more than 40 years have been part of those we have helped. Should we stick our heads in the sand or take seriously that the most important days of a child's life are the first 1,000, and make decisions that enable us to significantly lift our efforts for those children who have a difficult start in life so that social problems do not pass on from generation to generation? We can do that with a generational gift. If we share just a little of the life expectancy with colleagues in the labour market, then we can do more from the start. That is true solidarity. Are we going to run tests, step and direction, or are we going to set school and teachers free to get primary school to splash? Should we have a fight with the divided schools, so that our distinctive school, where we meet crosswise and are formed and trained together, becomes reality everywhere in Denmark? Should we turn the tide so that we do not have to see seven out of ten new study places on short and medium-term education ports in the country's four largest cities, but create opportunities in an educational field without borders? And should we take a profound self-discussion with a culture of education where the goal is not that our children and young people should challenge themselves and each other to break the framework of what we thought possible, but simply remember the most and perform best within the framework that was given in advance? Finally, should we allow darkened minorities to cast their shadows over the vast majority of fellow citizens - new and old - who love our society, contribute and join the community? Should we spend our time digging the ditches deeper and spitting the kiv between communities, as so often before? Or should we let integration be about what we want and what we do rather than where we came from and to whom we pray? The Prime Minister has often felt my criticism today I am taking off on my hat and agreeing: Integration is not about skin color and religion, but about choosing Denmark for. We can also choose to let the moss grow on the border barriers, or we can open Denmark to the labour we need so badly. We can do all that if we want to. So let us gather together to use the good times wisely. Because, as the Prime Minister rightly said, a brave people deserve a courageous Parliament. In short, let us make Denmark bigger. I look forward to working together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165505	Thank you. And the first questioner is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165511	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Radicals asks, as we have to lock ourselves up or open Denmark. It's such a myth that I, among other things. The Radicals believe they have helped to create. I think it would be interesting to find out what happened before we joined the European Union. So here a few weeks ago I asked the government: Will the government state how many foreign nationals were officially registered as resident in Denmark with residence and work permits in the year 1972, i.e. the year before we entered the EU? The answer from the government was: in 1972 there were 54,119 foreign nationals with residence and work permits. And then it is added: the inventory does not include Nordic citizens. If they were added, it is not at all wrong to multiply by two, i.e. with Norwegians, Swedes, Finns and Icelanders. This means that in 1972, before we joined the European Union, and when Denmark was a closed country that closed itself, we had 100,000 foreigners who worked and had a residence permit in Denmark. Is this a closed country? Was it a closed country we had in Denmark then? Or how is it? It's very interesting to know, because that myth is constantly being created. I also happen to know that in the mid-1970s it was assumed that in London alone 50,000 Danes worked, in other words 50,000 working Danes in London in the mid-1970s. What kind of a myth is that fake song, like... Radical Left has been a part of singing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165649	First of all, I should like today to welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party, by Mr. Søren Espersen speaks so warmly about the need for foreigners as a labour force in Denmark. It is not a new need, because it has been there for many years, but it is an increasing need if we are to continue to see companies expand here instead of moving elsewhere. And that is why so many people think that the free movement that we have gained in the European Union is actually a huge step forward because it has made it infinitely easier. I think there are over 200,000 foreigners working in Denmark today. I think it's more than ever before. I think it is positive. The number matters: The more foreigners come and work in Denmark, the more tax dollars we get.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165737	You keep creating the myth that Denmark was a closed country. What this is about is the free movement of workers, and so it is also the free movement of beggars from Bulgaria and Romania that comes to our streets. When I moved to London, I sat three hours down on something called Luna House in Surrey, where I was supposed to sign up. It took three hours, and it was really hard. Then I returned my papers and got a work permit and a residence permit. There was order, and you knew who came in, and of course they could see right away at me that there was an honest man here that you wanted to have in England. When my wife then moved to Denmark, I had to sign a declaration that in the next 5 years she would not be in the disadvantage of Danish society. It was with trembling hands that I did it, because it was quite a bet anyway. But we knew what we had, we knew what could be done and everyone had the opportunity to work within the European Union just like today. But it is true that the only big difference is that now we get all the beggars too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165834	I recommend using a wristwatch so you can see how long it's left. We need to take care of time. That's what I wanted to say. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165850	I mean, it's hard to compete with Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen today in relation to the focus that is on the importance of foreign labour. This is somewhat in contrast to an exchange of views I have had with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and you are party friends. There I was told that the solution to Denmark's challenges is not more foreign labour. I hope it's gonna be sir. Søren Espersen's line that wins, so we can get rid of the myth that it is a problem that more foreign labour is coming to Denmark. Perhaps then we could get to grips with the great challenge for Danish companies that we cannot attract enough foreign labour. Every time we succeed, we get more money in tax revenue, and then there is an opportunity to increase welfare, if that is what we want. So full ahead, sir. Søren Espersen. I hope you succeed in convincing the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165938	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005165939	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for the speech. Sir. Morten Østergaard said earlier this year to Weekendavisen: "As things stand today, it is clear that interest in a social-democratic one-party government is strongly declining. We are concerned about getting in and sharing in responsibility and helping to push forward a government project. I would like to say that I agree with the first part of that. Whatever constellation, the idea of a social democratic government is awful, I think. But is it a demand from the Radical Left that, if it should get there and I regret the scare scenario, it may cause some to see that there was a majority on the wrong side of the fence in this Chamber, then will have codecision in such a government? We have to say that it was the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170035	What is a clear demand from the Radical Left is that if there is a second majority, we must have codecision. And what I suppose, as a radical, I share with the Left and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, is that we are not shy of taking responsibility but, on the contrary, are anxious to have a responsibility as a government party. So in contrast to, for example, The Danish People's Party, which often evaluates whether they think it makes more sense to be outside, is of course the goal for us to have the ultimate responsibility of being in government. When it comes to how we play the cards the voters may hand us, we'll probably just have the voters involved first.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170118	Yeah, but if you're in that situation now, sir. Morten Østergaard imagine supporting a social democratic government without government participation to the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170132	There is the situation quite as I indicated in the interview in question, namely that interest in it is decreasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170141	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170143	I would like to congratulate Mr Seligman on his work. Morten Østergaard for the good words about education. I think I can agree with all of them. I noticed that Mr. Morten Østergaard used the expression that we should have a sparkly primary school. After all, it brought to my mind that we have had a discussion here over the last week, when there has been a look back at the conflict that was in 2013 and the lockout that was, by the teachers. I've noticed that sir... Morten Østergaard has in this respect rejected the need for a link between the lockout of teachers and the reform of primary schools that was concluded. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur maintains that view, with the statements that have been made, from a number of other politicians, and so I would like to ask Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard, whether he will reject the description given by Anders-Peter Mathiasen in his book on the teacher lockout, namely that a joint committee between the government and KL had prepared a script for a conflict in the school area, and that the government and KL had agreed at a meeting in November 2012 a lockout of teachers had been agreed if they did not bow to KL's demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170301	I have not read the book in question, but what I can say in general terms about this is that everyone I know very much wanted there to be an agreement. I think it is strange to imagine with the course that was seen that the government should have planned after it ended up in conflict and with intervention. On the contrary, I must say in the clear light of hindsight that I did not think it was a blissful course, and I really could undo the teachers and, for that matter, KL, that is, the employers in this context, that they will come back to an agreement-based regime when they have to negotiate next time. That is why my view is that what we need to learn from this process is that it is inappropriate when we link things so closely together. But I did not think it was unclear to anyone that there was a connection. At least that was also the criticism of the first day of the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170405	In fact, when I ask about this, it is precisely because I share the view that education is important, and I think that the mistakes made in the reform of primary schools and the connection with the lockout should be corrected. I understand, sir. Morten Østergaard has not read the book. I don't know if Mr. Morten Østergaard has managed to read the notes which the Danish Teacher's Association has spread in this context. After all, they present a note from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education dated 18 October 2012, i.e. approx. Two months before collective bargaining even started. The note they present stated: The reform is carried out by freed resources as a result of the normalisation of teachers' working hours. Even though Mr. Morten Østergaard has not read the book or possibly the note, Mr. Morten Østergaard did not see that it seemed as if a lock-out of teachers had been planned so that the reform of primary schools could be financed through reductions in teachers' working hours? Second, I would really like to hear Mr. Morten Østergaard: If we agree that mistakes were made in this context, what would Mr. Morten Østergaard then do to correct them?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170525	Even when we presented the reform of primary schools, it was clear that there was a desire to obtain more lessons from teachers in relation to the starting point. It received much criticism, also from the Danish Teachers' Association. That is why I am most saddened that one was not more open about the prerequisites because they were, in fact, in it. There was nothing dishonest, nothing disguised in it, and when many people today carry that feeling, it must be because we were not clear enough. But that was at least part of the discussion already then. The reflection I have is of course whether the organisation of that course was beneficial when we see how it ended. Because I didn't think it was a blissful course. But I can say that it was not a pre-arranged process either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170614	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170615	Thank you. Denmark is a green pioneer country, no matter how much the opposition tries to talk down Denmark's efforts and the Prime Minister's initiatives. The government, for example, has... just recently together with the Danish People's Party set aside 1 billion. kr. for a technology-neutral offer, so that we can get more solar and wind energy in 2018 and 2019. Will the Radical Left vote in favour of that agreement? This is, after all, an increase in renewable energy, which I assume the Radical Left wishes to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170703	What is surprising when you think you have made a sensible agreement and want broad support for it is that, from the outset, you do not maintain what has been the hallmark of this area, namely broad agreements. The reality of that agreement is, of course, that it receives massive criticism from the business community and from the industries, which say that what else has become the motto of the agreement is precisely not achieved, namely the most green energy for the money. That is why, of course, we need to look at the bill for the sake of order. But there is a reason why we are not in the agreement, and that is actually the model that has been chosen. I find it disappointing that, on this point, the government is choosing a narrow model in an area that is important and in which we have actually enjoyed having good, broadly anchored business conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170757	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170759	Thank you. I interpret that as a no, and I can see that there is nodding from the platform. In the Liberal Alliance, we have a principle of voting in favour of agreements which, as such, may well take small steps, but at least go in the right direction. This can be exemplified by the fact that all tax reliefs are good tax relief. Is it really not rather hollow when the opposition and the Radical Left criticise the government and Prime Minister for the green international initiatives, when they themselves do not want to vote in favour of increased renewable energy expansion at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170849	We'll look at the bill when it comes. But what is obvious is that the government has chosen to break the broad cooperation in the field of energy, even in the overture for negotiations on a new energy agreement. I think that is a pity, and unfortunately I think that a model has been chosen which does not provide enough green energy for the money. That is why we have to take the debate in the Chamber instead of where we usually deal with such things, namely in the negotiating rooms, where, as you know, we have to bow to each other if we want to achieve results.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170925	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005170927	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I thought it was awesome that the rapporteur allowed some young people to speak for themselves, because I kind of agree that we have a lot to learn from education policy. I would also like to ask a few questions about the teacher lockout, and I would like to look at the future, because I think it is in everyone's interest to see the interest of teachers, pupils, educators and all of us to have an agreement in 2018 that creates a space for preparation. One of the things the teachers say they are missing is the calculations underlying the working time law that is today. They have not been able to have them in all the years they have tried to get them, and this is, of course, the starting point for a concrete debate. So I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, if he will help to ensure that teachers can get the calculations that are the basis of law no. 409?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171025	I do not want to go into some specific details, but just say that I really think the experience is that happiness is not when Christiansborg throws himself into the middle of the collective battle, and that is why I will be reluctant to contribute to the Christiansborg debate. At least that is what we were criticised for when we presented the school reform at the time. However, I would also like to emphasise that I very much hope that we can come back to an agreement-based regime, and my strong call must be made to those responsible in the KL and also in the government to do what needs to be done and to provide the basis for the debate to take place on a sound and reasonable basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171119	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard also wants to return to an agreement-based regime. But I just think that in order to reach an agreement, it requires both sides to know what it is that you are negotiating. After all, in such an agreement negotiation, we need to know what it costs to make changes. And I'm not suggesting that we go in and definitely interfere with the agreement. I just propose that what is at the root of the law that we made together should come forward so that some others, that is, the social partners, can negotiate freely. I actually think that's in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171153	Oh, yeah. I'm just suggesting that we let the parties handle it. However, I agree that the better the basis for the negotiations, the greater the chance of a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171207	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171210	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask you about a quote I read in an article with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who is of course a party colleague with the rapporteur. Here Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that the number means a great deal when it comes to refugees and immigrants, in other words the number we accept as a country. It was a little different from the one, Mrs Margrethe Vestager, the former radical party leader, who came back in 2011, when she just criticized the Danish People's Party for having that view. I am glad that the Radical Left has come to this realization. I think this is a better starting point for creating integration policy and asylum policy at home. I wonder why they chose to relax immigration policy 45 times and even boast of it when they were in government last time, but I would really like to hear from the Radical Left: what is the figure? If the number matters, how many should Denmark accept?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171308	I'll start by accepting the roses. If that means that we can focus on a better integration policy in Denmark, which produces better results, then we have achieved what we would like to do, namely to discuss the real thing, because the reality is that the shackle of questions that Mrs Mette Abildgaard continues in, no one has given an answer to. I know that the government has not set up such a specific number either, and if the government had been able to control how many had come to Denmark as refugees, then I think that fewer had arrived in 2015 when the refugees came in larger numbers than we have seen for many decades. This is, of course, due to the fact that, in this situation, events from outside often affect it. However, it is equally obvious, and I would like to repeat this today, that if we can create a situation in which, instead of these uncontrolled conditions, there are controlled conditions, where we are working together at the external borders to ensure that we only deal with those who are actually refugees, and we share the task between us as European countries, then not only will the next refugee crisis be better managed in the future, but we will also have fewer refugees then. That is why we really want to discuss: how do we deal with the next refugee crisis, knowing that the number of refugees coming to Denmark depends entirely on the extent of the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171426	I agree that the number depends on the degree of success in terms of integration, but we must be able to get a little closer. We in the Conservative People's Party have made a vision 2034. That's what we're gonna do. But it is clear that this figure is also variable in terms of integration. It can then go a little one way and a little the other way. But if we had a year when more than 20,000 asylum seekers came to Denmark, is that too many or too few, would I have said so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171459	Well, it is incredibly tragic that we are facing the greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II and that there are so many refugees coming to Denmark. It is tragic for each of them, it is tragic for the opportunities we have for helping those who would have been better if fewer people had come who would have been better if we had shared the task in Europe instead of allowing chance. It would probably also have been less if there had been a willingness to invest more in the refugee camps where the United Nations Food Programme ran out of money and helped to get the movement moving. That is why I think that if we are to take this debate seriously, it must be about what tools we want to use, and there I see joint EU cooperation as the right way to go. Finally, I would just like to say that I wish the Conservative People's Party would also recognise that some of the things we did, which we did together and which are also being talked about as easing foreign policy, were to provide more foreign labour, something that this government is failing every day, even if there is a great need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171600	Now I can see discreetly that at least the rapporteur has a wristwatch. Let's move on to the next one. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171611	Thank you. There's a lot of things you might want to ask, sir. Morten Østergaard about. I had actually thought differently, but when I heard the discussion about the teacher conflict at the time, I must say that I just wanted to hear Mr. Morten Østergaard on this because I do not think any answer was given. The crucial question in relation to what happened at the time is, of course, whether there was a plan on the part of the then government, in agreement with the KL, to go all the way to getting the proceeds from the teachers' collective bargaining which was to cofinance the reform of the primary school. Was there such a predestined script, that is, a predetermined plan, as described in the book, provided the source is acknowledged, or is it completely nonsense when it is described in the book, which is called Søren and Mette in the leglock? I think, sir. Morten Østergaard knows which book I am thinking of, although Mr. Morten Østergaard says he hasn't read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171713	I have received the book and I intend to throw myself over it, but what I answered and also answer here is that the course there was was not blissful. It was not good for school reform; it was not good for the collective situation on the teachers' labour market. And I can tell you, it wasn't preordained either. That is what has been the discussion, that is to say, it should have been planned after you had to stand down here in Parliament with a bill to regulate the teachers' working hours. And I can say for sure that none of them I know of worked for or wanted. What was hoped for was, of course, that an agreement could be reached, just as all governments have always hoped for in any collective bargaining. On the other hand, what we should perhaps have been more open about, but which was part of the exercise, was quite right, yes, that our school reform in its proposal assumed that teachers had more lessons than were in the agreement at that time. But it was no secret; it was even part of the discussion then.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171819	I am in favour of the fact that, of course, they wanted the teachers to give themselves up and that there was therefore a so-called negotiating agreement between the KL and the teachers. I am in favour of that. But the important thing is that the book says, and I quote: 'I can confirm that the meeting took place, that we were informed of the group's work and gave hands on going all the way. The upcoming reform of the primary school was dependent on collective bargaining, and KL got the government's support to lockout the teachers if they didn't bow down. ▪ It has been said about a meeting in November 2012. Is it inconceivable that such a meeting has taken place and that it has been with this content?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171853	That is a rather absurd question to ask, i.e. whether it is unthinkable that a meeting has taken place. What I am saying is that it was obvious in the proposal we made, but not open enough in the discussion, because so many are left with a different impression that the origin of the reform was due to teachers teaching more hours than under the current agreement. It was also in the playout, and it was part of the criticism then. And what was our wish and hope was that the collective bargaining would lead to that result; we did not want to end up in either lockout or intervention at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171927	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005171930	Thank you very much. I mentioned earlier today how Helle Thorning-Schmidt said in 2010 that if she came to power, she would not relax foreign policy. Subsequently, when she came to the government with the help of Mr. Morten Østergaard's party and according to Mr. Morten Østergaard himself, the foreign policy was relaxed approx. 45 times. Today we have heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen come up with virtually an echo from the past and say exactly the same thing. If it's the case that there's a red government coming, sir. Morten Østergaard saw himself as part of a red government or supporting a red government in which foreign policy is not relaxed in any way? And if it is a requirement to relax the policy of foreigners, in which areas would Mr. Morten Østergaard then enforce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172018	The last time we had an election campaign, I remember, the gentleman who today is Prime Minister, the Danes promised a complete asylum freeze, and when they then joined as a government, they got the largest number of asylum seekers for several decades. And these are the conditions, because you can't control them that way. That is why I think it might make more sense to discuss what the parties think. I would like to know what my views are; of course I will fight for them. My position, for example, is that it is unworthy when things are going as well as they are in Denmark that we do not think we can deal with 500 quota refugees. I think it is an omission that the great ones are not able, as we did with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as the Minister for Employment and the main negotiator and with me next to us, to create better conditions for attracting foreign labour. When you talk about 45 relaxations, as if a change in a paragraph, whatever its content, is a relaxation, you forget that the Left voted in favour of quite a few of them. That is why I think it is a trivial discussion. But, yes, the Radical Left will, of course, have an influence on the policies being pursued, including foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172125	I think it is really far-fetched to say that this government has not had the opportunity to reduce the number of asylum seekers. We have gone from about 21,000 to just over 6,000 to about 2,500... that is how far we have come this year. That is precisely because we have made a large number of necessary, but also severe, tightenings. So I am incredibly proud to be from a country that has a government that has so actively managed the influx. But I think, sir. Morten Østergaard does not really answer the question. Are there absolute requirements, e.g. As far as quota refugees are concerned, Mr. Morten Østergaard could not see himself pointing to a red government unless there is relaxation in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172207	First of all, I'd like to sign off on the fact that sir... Marcus Knuth says it was tough decisions. It may not always be quite clear that this is the case, but I think that is important because it is a really serious situation. It is not statistics and figures, it is real human destinies that we are talking about, and even some of them in the world that have the most difficulty. I also think that is why many people find it difficult to understand that we need to hear the justifications about how well things are going in Denmark, but that we cannot find room for 500 quota refugees anyway. I don't bend my politics. I just promise to seek influence, and if I have the decisive mandates, I usually get it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172240	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172245	I really wanted to ask you something else, but when you've been in here for a while, you're also starting to listen a little bit to what's being said between the lines. In this debate on the intervention in the teacher's conflict, I hear the rapporteur say: we did not want it to end with intervention. That's nice. I'm sure there was a wish that the teachers would accept an agreement that contributed with this workforce. But that is not what has been asked. What is being asked about this, and I would just like to have a very clear answer to that: has the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Morten Østergaard, know that the government of which the rapporteur was a part, in one way or another, agreed with KL that if the teachers did not voluntarily negotiate and bowed to the demand for increased working hours, one would be ready for lock-out and intervention? Can the rapporteur give a clear answer as to whether the rapporteur is aware of such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172353	Whether the answer is clear enough for Mr. Pelle Dragsted, may time show. What I think is a pity when you ask in this way is that you kind of create such a myth that there was some misguided cooperation between the KL and the government. What was at stake was a reform which stated clearly that it would be possible to do so if there were also more teaching hours. And yes, of course that had been discussed with KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172426	I fully agree with that, but I know the rapporteur and I am quite sure that the rapporteur can hear what I am asking about. I do not ask if there had been any discussion with the KL that the government wanted to increase working time. I ask specifically whether there was any kind of agreement, agreement or agreement between the government in which the rapporteur was part and had a leading position, and KL to interfere in the professional conflict with government intervention if the teachers did not voluntarily bow down. I'm all for a procedure, and you've done that before, but was there a deal? Is the rapporteur aware that there was an agreement yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172508	We did a thorough school reform. We did so by nature in close dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities, and it is clear from the project that it foreshadowed a change in teachers' working conditions so that they taught several hours. It was also part of the discussion, and it was part of the criticism that was raised, and I think that the chairman of the Danish Teachers' Association said on that occasion that this was the first time he had seen a legislative reform that pre-established a result of collective bargaining that had not started. Therefore, what really upsets me today is that we were not more clear about this being the case, because then there might not have been any reason for all the myths carried to squares.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172553	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172555	Thank you. - Sir... Morten Østergaard clarify the Radical Left's position on inequality? Does one agree with the Social Democrats that one of the biggest problems in Denmark is inequality, or does one not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172611	The position of the Radical Left on inequality is as old as our party, and we think it is something that must be combated, and we have done so every day. But it is equally clear, and it must be clear to everyone that Denmark is one of the world's most equal societies. And that is why what we are concerned about, and also concerned about, when we sat in government, is to combat poverty. We regret that we have a government which, contrary to their promises, has pursued a policy that has brought more children in Denmark into poverty. And that's what we do, among other things. when we so massively take action in terms of children's upbringing and education. So we are certainly concerned to ensure that inequality in Denmark does not increase, but we are delighted to live in one of the world's most equal societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172658	That's a real radical answer. But when Morten Østergaard saw in the debate the other day that the rich are allowed to get richer, then it is not an indication that Radicals believe that it is a myth that there are problems with inequality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172717	No, I'm what's called social liberal. That means, of course, that you want to lift it at the bottom, but by the way, you want to give people freedom. I welcome and have no difficulty in enjoying living in one of the world's most equal societies, and I think we should remain so. And then I think that where we have the big challenges, partly with the ceiling on cash benefits, and partly with the integration benefit, we give some children a bad start to life. I think we have some challenges with social problems being inherited. I think that is quite real problems and certainly not myths, and that is something we should do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172753	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172757	Thank you. Now the Radical Left is, after all, a party that is very pleased with European cooperation in general. I have also heard a number of members of the Radical Left speaking very commendably about the new President of France. There is a debate going on in Europe, in the European Union right now on the taxation of, for example. large IT companies paying close to 0 per cent. in taxes in Europe. And I had a meeting that several of us had with the tax commissioner on Friday, who stressed the need for a solution. The problems of cross-border capital, the problems of taxation that the nation states cannot solve alone, we need to find common ground on: in the field of VAT and in relation to taxation of, for example, VAT. IT companies with a digital tax, etc. What does the Radical Left think about precisely those areas where we cannot go in separately and tackle this problem? Is that where we have to make international agreements, agreements under the auspices of the European Union, at least as a start?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172919	I think it is wise when it comes to these cross-border problems, including tax and economic issues, to work together on this. However, I do not want to give any commitment today to concrete solutions to how this should be done, but I want to say that we think it is a good thing that we in the European countries work together, including on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005172952	At least it wasn't a clear no. The tax commissioner also referred to the CCT, which the new French President also supports, i.e. a tax on financial transactions. Within the financial system, we can see more and more trades being carried out as a computer dealer, as a high-frequency trader, where it is precisely that part of the economy that does not enter the real economy where production takes place, where we get richer and where jobs are created. Why does the Radical Left maintain their opposition to an CCT when so many European countries want to go further along that path?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173036	What we have said is that we still believe that a common European tax on financial transactions is a way to go. What doesn't work is to join a small club of countries that will invite a whole range of things around them. It is also what has done that, although the discussion has now been there for a long time and many people on many festive occasions have spoken out warmly for it, there is no CCT club in Europe yet, because their concern is: what is happening in relation to the countries outside? And that's why you have to bring everyone with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173109	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173111	I would like to return to foreign policy. I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, on the Radical Left, acknowledges that if Denmark had received many more refugees and immigrants of the same average type as we have received in recent decades, we would have had much greater integration problems and much greater social tensions and challenges with a new ethnic subclass than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173143	That's a very hypothetical question. What I want to say is that I think it is quite obvious that we have a number of problems which I would also like to talk about openly. I mentioned in my speech the problems of divided schools, that in Denmark we see too much that our children do not go to school together, but separately; we have gang conflicts that we need to deal with better; and then we have problems with social control, which we should also tackle. All these things I think are real problems which, whatever may have happened a decade or two ago, are so obvious in Danish society that we should do something about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173225	I think I'm the third or fourth who's trying to get a little more substance out of sir. Morten Østergaard in relation to this, about whether the number matters. Why is it so difficult for the Radical Left to recognise that everything else equal becomes more challenges for integration if a large number of refugees and immigrants of the type we have received in recent decades are accepted? Is it because the Radical Left knows very well that it would have been a disaster for Denmark if the Radical Left had got its policy through in the last few decades, when it has worked very, very hard to counter all attempts to keep the influx a little down, or why is it so difficult to recognise something quite obvious?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173307	I don't think so, sir. Rasmus Jarlov may have listened quite carefully, neither in today's debate nor in the debate in general, because it is almost words to words that we have said, namely that it means something by number. The more that comes, the harder it will be to integrate them. And that is why I think that at least sometimes a European-minded party such as the Conservative People's Party should join in the fight for us to have a common European approach to these issues. If we had, there would have been fewer refugees during the last refugee crisis. That is certainly a very concrete answer, but unfortunately it is not an answer that the Conservative People's Party will bite at.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173347	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173350	Now, personally, if the Radical Left were to congratulate me, I would immediately know that I had committed a flagrant blunder. I don't know if the PM feels the same way. But I must at least note that the Radical Left reiterated the mantra that Islam is not an obstacle to integration. From this point of view, it could be very interesting to find out how firm the Radical Left will stand on influencing foreign policy. Prior to the 2011 parliamentary elections, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen and many others, that the Radicals could not push a comma, and now Mrs Mette Frederiksen has been in this fantastic talk show that Søren Lippert has. She was given the question of whether the Radicals should have an influence on foreign policy. Then Mrs Mette Frederiksen replied: No. I think we should listen to the logic of the mandates. It must be that it is the mandates that determine which policy is being pursued. Is Mr. Morten Østergaard is satisfied with that, so no influence on the Radical Left on foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173506	It is, after all, such an artificial debate that we are trying to draw up. I am fighting for all the views of the Radical Left, and I assume that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth in spite of the fact that he e.g. in the euro area has a minority point of view in the Folketing will continue to fight for its. That's the way it is. Opinions are broken, and that's how it has to be. Of course, what I am saying is that, should we come into a situation where our mandates are crucial, we will of course use them actively to promote all our views as far as possible. It is such an idea that there is one immigration policy on which a very broad majority in the Folketing agrees. But you can't even trust the agreements that the Danish People's Party makes with the government, for example. on citizenship. After all, they were abandoned from the platform when they saw the consequences of them. And now we heard the Left who said that we must relax in an area, which the Radical Left is very much in agreement with, in other words, to give easier access to citizenship for people who have received a speeding ticket or something else. And that's why things aren't so black and white. Give room for the nuances of the foreign debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173609	See, that was a very long answer, which really did not really give an answer. So I'd like to try asking Mr. Morten Østergaard again. Will the Radical Left be satisfied if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is right in what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said, namely that the Radical Left will have no influence on foreign policy? Would it not be a precondition for the Radical Left to be able to support a social democratic government, for example, that such a government, like Mr. Morten Østergaard himself has pointed out, do quota refugees get back to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173647	As I said, we are not bending our positions, even in the field of foreigners. But it goes without saying that we will of course seek influence, including on foreign policy. And satisfied with having zero influence, there are hardly any parties, at least not Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173706	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen as the last one asks about the rapporteur of the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173713	Thank you. Well, then you'd better try to do it right. Sir. Morten Østergaard was told in one of his answers that he believed that the Danish People's Party refused to take responsibility because we were not part of the government work. It is, after all, a position that can be taken, namely that it should only be in government that people can take responsibility. And then I thought that last night I made an agreement with the Minister of Innovation and all the parties of the Danish Parliament, among others. The Radical Left, represented by Mr. Andreas Steenberg, who, as you know, is not a minister. Does this mean that the Radical Left does not take responsibility for the agreement that was reached last night, since you are not part of the government and that it is only in a government that people take responsibility for things?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173803	No. I appreciate in one and all the broad cooperation and as much as possible of it. The more parties, the better. What I am saying is that for us, of course, it is a goal to help lead the country again from government offices and to help set the agenda. And there's just one difference from the Danish People's Party, which doesn't really know if it's attractive to be in on the galley. You might warm up to that, I don't know, and then you're gonna change some of the current government parties with yourself or whatever. But the short part of the length is that there's a difference. We have a long history of taking responsibility in government, and we hope that we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173846	Now the word responsibility came back in as if there were a contradiction between being responsible and standing outside a government. I hope, then, that the Radical Left, having won seats in the Parliamentary Chamber, will feel that you will also take responsibility, even if you are not part of the government. Can we not agree that one can easily take responsibility for this country without necessarily being able to call oneself a minister, that is, there is no contradiction between the two things? It's just to try to talk ourselves up a little bit instead of always trying to talk to the lowest common denominator. Can we agree that we put it there with the fact that it is only in government that you take responsibility, death?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005173930	At any rate, we are not in a position to disagree that when you're elected to this thing, and I notice that the questioner also thinks so, it's to get in and get some dough on your fingers, if you can say so, and help create some things. And it is a responsibility that I find to be dressable to every party. But we do not reveal any secret either by saying that we do have a slightly different approach to sitting in government. And we say openly that we are happy to accept the ultimate responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005174008	Then I'd like to say thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard for today's work and I am very pleased to welcome Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005174020	Thank you. When the Prime Minister Tuesday opened Parliament it was with the words that the government had found the perfect balance between welfare, tax relief and the great green arm movements. Then it is that you remain in doubt. Has the Prime Minister perhaps found the magical money tree that all politicians dream of in Marienborg's backyard, or is he so much in favour of recycling that he has started spending the money twice? No, he's come up with something much more creative, a whole new concept. The tax reliefs have been renamed close to welfare.Hokuspokus, and then there is money for everything, because we all know that when the champagne corks pop on Strandvejen, the cashier gets fluks better kindergarten or a faster cancer treatment. No, that's not how it works. The money cannot be used twice, and here the SF's position is clear. Instead of bullying the recovery on cheaper cars and tax cuts, let us use it to slow down a little, so there is time for patients in hospitals, time for students to immerse themselves and become smarter, time for each child in nurseries and kindergarten, and put turbo on the green transition. Before we correct the imbalance between the country and the city, before there are enough hands in the maternity wards or in the blue room, there is no affording tax relief, let alone top tax relief, whether they are obvious or masked. It is quite true that we have come out of the crisis and it looks brighter. But the recovery comes after a deep economic crisis, which has hit those who have the least. It is the low-paid, the unemployed, the families of children in the outermost regions who have seen the grocery store, the police station and the school disappear, while the most prosperous have received tax relief. There have been cuts in the municipalities, there are fewer hands in the blue room, and who pays the very highest price for welfare dumping? It is the Danes who have the very least. So when I have to choose between whether to invest in the community, in the welfare society, or tax cuts, I choose welfare, because when you make the choice that the government makes, it means that there are not enough resources for some of the huge tasks that are pushing themselves on in the years to come, if you do not find that famous money tree in Marienborg's garden. As I see it, we are facing four crucial challenges that we need to address before tax relief is available. I would like to start with the biggest challenge at all, namely climate change. Jasmin Bovbjerg from 5. E at Svardstrup School says so in Information today: I can get annoyed with the politicians who just say no when there are proposals that are good for nature. Then they just sit around and fight like little kids. I'm just thinking, hello, aren't you adults or what? I don't always think adults have that much insight into this. So it is as if some of the adults do not think about the climate as much as we do. ▪ Shouldn't we listen to the kids in 5. E? Because when we hear about one hurricane and flood record after another in the Caribbean and the United States, it's no coincidence. There may be no more hurricanes, but they are becoming more violent because of global warming. The cost of cleaning up after these disasters is enormous, let alone the cost that we cannot make up for money, namely the loss of human lives. The good news is that we can cope with the climate crisis if we want to. Renewable energy is currently falling in price, and it is not least Denmark's profit that wind turbines today are so efficient. It is quite realistic that our total electricity consumption can already be covered by renewable energy by 2030, and that we can even replace heating forms such as oil and natural gas with electricity in many places. And it is clearly wise and possible to almost phase out coal already in 2025 and all the way by 2030. So the government's 2050 objective is perhaps a little too little and is far too late. The second significant challenge facing us is that we must have the welfare of the people on the right track. Anxiety, stress, depression have also become folk diseases in children and it is time we stopped and asked ourselves: what are we doing wrong? We in the SF propose a calm reform that should reverse the stress curve for children and young people. We owe each other that much. But I believe that it will also have a useful and sensible socio-economic benefit. However, this requires that we think differently from square competition at maximum speed, regardless of costs. Stress, rushes and mental problems must be prevented as far as possible, but it is also an important task for our health services to give better help to those who run into problems, not least faster help because we know that slowness costs a lot of money in every way. Imagine that you had to wear a broken leg for a month before you had it repaired, while for stress, rush or anxiety, depression in the young can go much longer. We cannot be familiar with that. Nor can we be aware to future generations that they will have to spend some of the most important years in nurseries and kindergartens without adequate adult staffing. The very best investment we can make at all is to bet on our children. We simply need to ensure that all children get a good start in life. That is why we need to look at midwives' visits, healthcare professionals, the whole lot around, and we need to do it properly. Thirdly, we must combat inequality. It ticks like a bomb under our welfare society, and we need to crack the basket, and that also requires us to look at the tax system. Why is it that share dividends should be taxed more lightly than income? Why not make a fortune tax on the biggest fortunes? Then we can have some contributions to finance improvements in our welfare, and more importantly: we must have closed down all the legal, but also illegal, circumvention options that we have in our tax system, which, of course, mainly benefit the rich. It requires a great deal of international cooperation, yes, let us be honest, in the real world it is about in the European Union. The fourth but certainly not the least or the most indifferent challenge is, of course, that we must ensure good Danish jobs now, but certainly also in a future where robots may be able to take over some of the functions we know today. The government's method is well known. You're just taking a significant amount of money from the poorest families of children, sick cash benefit recipients, and they'll get their act together. But it's just not that simple. More importantly, we should not make children poor. I think we need to do more seriously. The green transition creates lots of jobs. The wind turbine industry is the fastest growing industry in Denmark, and the prospects in the water sector are also great. However, it requires that Denmark is constantly at the forefront in order to create a demanding home market, but we also have a bottom-up task in strengthening education and, above all, ensuring that we have enough skilled labour. This should, of course, be a key priority for the government rather than cutting back on education. So when our Prime Minister says that he has found the perfect balance between tax relief and welfare, he is doing a little like the three monkeys who can neither hear, see nor speak, because no, a good balance has been found as long as cancer sickness has to wait for treatment. Not a good balance has been found when we are hanging on the brakes in relation to the absolutely necessary green transition, and no good balance has been found when educators, nurses and home workers are worn out at their workplace because hands are missing. Nor is there any balance when the social safety net is eroded in terms of poverty benefits and short benefit periods. The good news is that we can make up for the imbalance, but it requires that we invest in the community and the climate, that we go a completely different way than the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005174942	You're welcome. The first question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005174947	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There is some form of security in seeing that some of the old traverts return to the SF, and that the transformation from an almost responsible government party back to the socialist plunder generator is about to be complete. The SF apparently believes that the excellent ceiling on cash aid increases poverty in Denmark, I understand. If you're a couple on cash benefits and you have two kids, I'd be happy to admit that life is not a dance on roses. But after this ceiling has entered into force, you have 23,600 DKK. paid each month. How much does that amount have to go up to before it's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175047	I'm thinking that sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen should try to visit the next helpers. They have a café here in Copenhagen, and there the rapporteur will see many of the people who have been hit by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, who cannot afford to buy medicine and who find that their children are not able to go to children's birthdays because they cannot afford to buy it that gift it requires to go to birthday. There are families who experience that they can't just buy a bicycle for their children, which is actually so crucial for transporting themselves around Denmark. It is I think that the government should be very aware that when we talk about these amounts back and forth, there are also some who have to pay rent and all sorts of other fixed expenses, and rent is not just free in Denmark; it is actually a pretty big expense for most people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175143	Thank you very much for the good tip. That's not what I asked. How much should that amount be?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175153	I think we should remove the ceiling, we should remove the ceiling imposed by the government. At least it's a step along the way. We must abolish the 225-hour rule. The point is, and I recognise that there is certainly a small percentage of the people who have been affected by this, who have come into work and I certainly recognise that. But there is a large proportion of the people who have been hit by the ceiling on cash benefits who cannot get to work. These are people who are sick, who go in a long way and wait to move on in life, for example. It is not exactly easy to get an early retirement pension, it is quite dependent on which municipality is involved. I don't think they should be poored, let alone their children. We can see that it is really difficult to break the social heritage if you never get the same opportunities as others. I have no interest in that, because I think it is important that all talents come into play in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175239	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175243	There has been a lot of debate over the past week on the basis of this book, i.e. Søren and Mette in Benklås, which describes a connection between the lockout against teachers in 2013 and the conclusion of the agreement on a reform of primary school under the government of which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was a member. I have welcomed the statements made by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and also the party's education rapporteur that it was a mistake to link the reform of primary schools with the agreement of teachers. I have also noticed that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr writes in a look-up on Facebook that it is a place to start to recognise that one has made a mistake, and I can in fact agree with that. The interesting thing is, what do we do about it? That is why I want to hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr whether the SF, together with the Enhedslisten, will work to amend the primary school law so that we will have the long school days abolished again, because they were the ones who helped create the economic space by removing the teachers' working time rules. Will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr help to abolish the long school days?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175404	But SF sits as part of the public school settlement and has just made sure that the issue of long school days is looked at. We have done so in excellent cooperation with the government minister. We've been looking to see if you can make an experiment with shorter school days in 50 schools. We have listened to teachers, pupils and parents who say that their children are going to school far too long and that we must therefore see whether we can do this wiserly. In relation to the discussion on teachers' working hours and the money found in the context of the conflict, it is true that it is linked to the reform of the primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175449	So, the interesting thing about funding was that there was a direct link between the long school days and the teachers' working hours. Long school days could not be introduced without reducing teachers' working time rules. And that is why I ask: will the SF accept the error, because otherwise I would like to know what error it is that has been recognised will help to remove the long school days again, not only locally but nationally, so as to abolish the long school days by amending the primary school law, so that we can secure the economy that is a prerequisite for restoring teachers' working time rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175533	As I said, the SF is working to abolish the long school days and make them shorter, but we would like to use the money to ensure that there are two adults with the students, because we find that very many students are lost on the floor because there is not enough attention and enough time. That was the reform of the primary school. When it comes to the second, which is about Law No. 409, we say very clearly that we must have the figures on the table. We think this is important in relation to the next negotiations, and we believe that free negotiations should be held, that is to say that it should be the social partners who are negotiating, and not the Folketing, who are interfering in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175605	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175608	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask a question which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr did not raise in connection with her speech, namely defence. The SF is not part of the present defence settlement, despite the fact that the SF has actually been a governing party in the past and, as my own party, the Liberal Alliance, has actually been in the position of Foreign Minister. SF's defence policy is to take international responsibility for protecting civilian populations, and therefore SF supports Denmark's international commitment. I think that is roughly quoted from the SF's defence policy. The government has just recently chosen to contribute 55 more soldiers to international action in Afghanistan, but why has the SF not chosen to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175709	There were many questions on that question. I just have to answer lately, that is, if that is what the rapporteur would like it to be just to make sure that I get the answer to what needs to be answered. In relation to the last thing about sending additional soldiers to Afghanistan, the SF has said 'no' very clearly because we want to dwindle the efforts in Afghanistan and instead intervene with the civilian effort, which is what our excellent Minister for Development has done now. I do not know whether we can commend government ministers when you are a socialist, but she is actually doing so OK. She has just emphasised the efforts in Afghanistan with regard to women, with regard to schools and with regard to many of the other efforts that need to make Afghanistan free again and get the Afghans back on track. I simply do not think this is happening by sending additional Danish soldiers to Afghanistan, because we have to move on to the next phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175809	This is all very well, and I fully agree, as I also think we have a wonderfully good Minister for Development, and I think we have a fantastic good Minister for Foreign Affairs at all we have a fantastic good government, one might say. But now it was SF's defence policy that we talked about, and it was also SF's defence policy that I tried to quote to the best of my ability. Now it is not soldiers in Afghanistan, but what kind of international commitment does the SF refer to in its defence policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175845	After all, we are assessing international action on a case-by-case basis. The SF has helped to send flights to Libya because we wanted to back the freedom movement that was in Libya, because we thought that at that time was wise. One can discuss whether that was quite what happened afterwards, i.e. whether it was the right effort. We have helped to support the sending of 200 men to Estonia because we are deeply concerned about the Russian armament that is pushing the Baltic countries. We are looking at what Denmark's long-term security policy should be about, and I believe that it should be more and more in the neighbourhood in relation to Russia and the Arctic and less in relation to others. Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005175929	Thank you. Then I suggest we take a break for the evening. There are two good reasons to come back on time: at 1 p.m. 19.00, and that is that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr continues to reply and that the first question is Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then you know, and then you've prepared for it, and I'd like to wish you a good evening break until 8:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190008	We shall resume the debate. It is still Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, we have 35 minutes left, and the first to speak is Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190021	Thank you for that, President. I knew that the alternative was an extreme party, but I have to admit that I was nevertheless surprised this afternoon when the alternative rapporteur in the House said that the burka is not an expression of women's oppression. What I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is whether the SF sees it in the same way as the alternative or agrees with the rest of us that, of course, the burka is an expression of a women's oppressive element, where the woman is the man submissive, and that this is something that we, of course, in Danish society, must take a strong stand against.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190107	I think that the burka is both female and male oppressive, because the whole concept of the burka is to dress a woman so that the man is not tempted by his ability. It is, of course, a sad view of the man, and it is also a sad view of the woman that the woman alone should be judged on her body. This is something we have distanced ourselves from in the SF over the ages. SF has been the party that during the seventies took the gender struggle in Denmark, and we will always fight for the woman's right to control her own body.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190143	Thank you for your answer. Now it is not the case that I am going to ask the SF President whether the SF will support a ban on the burka, because I do not think the SF will. I don't think that's enough. If I'm wrong, I'd love to know. I do not know whether I can persuade Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to try to convince her left-wing friends that, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has just said, this is indeed the case with regard to what the burka is actually expressing. Otherwise, we have to say that here in the Folketing we have a party on the extreme left who believes that the burka is merely an expression of a suit which some women choose to wear on a voluntary basis and which is not an expression of any women's oppression. And then you might as well discuss whether the women should go behind the man in the parade or where it might be. So will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr take up that call and try to persuade her left-wing friends to take the same position as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190241	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190242	I have many good friends on the left, who I also experience strongly distance myself from the robe burka, among others. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, who also says that this is women's oppression. I believe that what is absolutely crucial is that we begin to have a discussion about what values are essential in Denmark. It is democracy, it is equality, it is freedom of expression. These are values that we do not compromise on. The fight we have taken on the left with women's right to control their own bodies, I do not give up, even when we are discussing understanding of cultures or religions or anything else. There are values above the other. And I would like to do my best to convince everyone in Denmark, not just the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190327	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190329	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her rapporteur's speech. Since the cash benefits ceiling was re-established in April 2016, we have seen 13,500 fewer citizens coming on cash benefits, education and integration benefits. Nevertheless, the rapporteur's party, the SF, has decided against the ceiling on cash benefits. What I would simply like an answer to is whether the SF can confirm that they will only be parliamentary basis for a red government if the ceiling on cash benefits is abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190413	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby for that question. There should be no doubt that the SF believes it is absolutely essential that we abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, as it impoverishes people. If we want a society based on a strong community in which all people are given the opportunity to live out the talent they have, we cannot let anyone go behind the dance by saying that they are not equal with others. So the ceiling on cash aid must be abolished, and I think that will happen at a change of government in Denmark with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as the future prime minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190447	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190448	Thank you. I'm gonna try one more time. The horror scenario has been that the citizens would be kicked out of their apartments and that this cash aid ceiling would go completely wrong. What we can see now is that before the rule was introduced, it happened 181 times per year. month that some fell out of an apartment, and subsequently the number was 182. So very little has happened in this area. But can I just confirm once more what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says, namely that if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is to be Prime Minister, the first thing she has to do is remove the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190531	I think that when Mrs Mette Frederiksen comes to power in Denmark, and I certainly hope she will, after the next parliamentary elections, there are many things that need to be cleaned up in Denmark so that we can have a more united Denmark, a greener Denmark. Part of that is the ceiling on cash benefits, and Mr. Orla Østerby has no doubt at all. Now that we are discussing how many have been put out of the dwelling, I think it is interesting to ask the many people who are on cash benefits how they are doing in their accommodation when they are not actually able to afford the rent. Many have not, yet they have been allowed to stay there. After all, the housing companies have made transitional arrangements, many of the tenants have been postponed and many are borrowing poor from family and friends. We must be aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190612	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190615	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that the rapporteur was concerned about the pressure on our staff, among other things. in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, this is the result of the fact that, year by year, fewer and fewer employees have been able to take on the task of more and more elderly people. You can try to do something about that. The challenge is a little that no matter how much money we stop into the piggy bank earmarked elderly care from in here, the municipalities can just pick out the cork at the bottom and pick out the money and invest it in sports halls or in new colleagues to the mayor inside the town hall in the form of expensive consultants and highly paid djøfs. This brings my question to the chairman of the SF: what is most important in the eyes of the SF, the consideration of municipal autonomy or the consideration of proper welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190724	I think it can go hand in hand. I am quite sure that in the municipalities where the Danish People's Party, together with the SF and the Social Democratic Party, sits on a majority vote and it is actually fortunately in many municipalities, if the Danish People's Party wants to join it, we would actually be able to secure the money for the elderly. The reason why I am concerned about local self-government is precisely because the municipalities know where the shoe prints. They know exactly what the problem is in their municipality and where it is they have to take action for the elderly. In some places you have special challenges with dementia, and then you have to have special nursing homes for it. There are some places where the challenge is that the elderly stay longer in their own homes and therefore may need permanent teams of home helpers around them. For the fact that someone new comes in and out of the house every single time can be really difficult for an elderly person who may already have respiratory difficulties or something else, to have to spend the time explaining that he needs it and that help. So I really think we should listen to our municipal politicians to hear what they need out there and make sure, of course, that the money goes to Christiansborg. It is also part of our financial bill which the Ministry of Finance has calculated and which, in fact, is linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190829	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190830	I fully agree that it is best to know locally what is needed, but there were none of the examples mentioned by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, which give rise to a need for fewer employees. So is SF willing to go down the road that says we're laying a bottom and saying that we've reached the bottom of how few employees can be in this care for the elderly, especially in view of the fact that the proportion of elderly citizens, also with care needs, is increasing, so that we simply go so close to the municipalities and say that we simply cannot accept that they are hollowing out the care of the elderly in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190910	I fully agree with Mr. Jakobsen in it. That is also why I sometimes wonder why the Danish People's Party even points to the Prime Minister we have today, because he does not have the long-term intention of increasing funds for the elderly in the large public budget. The Danish People's Party, in turn, has the opportunity to do so by pointing to the other side, so that we have a proper municipal welfare. This also means that the elderly feel that there is dignity around their everyday lives. I think that is so crucial. I think that our Minister for the Elderly has said this very well, namely that we are born as originals; we should not die as copies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190948	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005190950	Thank you. Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech. I'd like us to move in a little bit and talk about free schools. I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur about the fact that the government has proposed that we should have a social coupling rate. What is SF's position on this? In other words, we usually hear that at least part of the red parties say a lot about the fact that free schools do not take enough social responsibility. Is that something the SF still thinks? And couldn't it just be an idea now to make this social connection rate for the free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191036	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191038	Mrs Anni Matthiesen
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191040	Well, I am delighted because that is one of the things we hear over and over again, namely that we do not think that free schools take enough social responsibility. After all, the social coupling rate proposed by the government must ensure that children with special needs also have an opportunity for free choice of school and for that matter for free school. So I actually hear the SF's rapporteur support it and that the SF will vote for such a social coupling percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191114	SF is in favour of free schools taking social responsibility. We have proposed this several times, because we think it is crucial that the free schools should not just stay for a particular group, so we really end up doing ghetto schools because they are all similar in the free schools. I think it is absolutely crucial that we meet across; that we get to know each other across social divisions, across religion and across the other opportunities we have in life. And that also applies to free schools. If we are to ensure coherence in Denmark, that is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191148	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191150	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur highlighted climate change as one of the major problems and emphasised that there were children who felt that adults should listen more and take the big decisions, and then some children took climate problems seriously. Against this background, I would like to ask about this North Sea agreement, which SF has been involved in, where you go to pick up the last oil, while climate scientists recommend that we leave 80%. of the known fossil fuels stay in the underground. Does the rapporteur think that this is in keeping with the fact that the SF, in agreement with the government, is going to pick up the last oil and gas from the underground?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191242	I think it is important to remember what the North Sea Agreement is about. It is about the Tyra field and a repair of the field, as it would otherwise fall into the sea. What was crucial was to say: should we pull up the gas and oil that we had planned, plus a little from the Tyra field? What is really the big question is what happens if you do not. Then the Treasury will lack a great many billions of tax revenue in the future. We have helped to agree to this, but we have not accepted it unconditionally. We have made sure that conditions are laid down which include: That means that it is the business community that will pay for the tax exemption that the Tyrafelt and Tyrafelt's owner will have for a period of time. But afterwards we will have 26 billion. kr., or so, back into tax revenue. We can choose to spend them on welfare, we can choose to use them on green conversion. I'm hoping we'll do both. I know the government has other ambitions. They want to spend it on business and business tax incentives. It will then be a political fight, just as everything else is here in the Danish Parliament, and I hope that Enhedslisten will support us in that they, among other things. to be used for the green transition. We have some money that we would not otherwise have, and it will be absolutely crucial if we are to achieve our climate objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191357	Both I and the children of the 5th grade in Skandstrup think I am disappointed with that answer, because if you look at the agreement, you can see that there are no conditions as to what the revenue is to be used for, and that is about 1 billion. kr. a year. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr writes in Politiken on 22 March that the agreement on the oil field in the North Sea ensures welfare. I would like to hear: is it not true that there is no question in the agreement of exactly what this extra income of approx. 1 billion kr. should be earmarked for, and that it appears that the government has a whole different course, so that extra money should be spent on wider motorways and cheaper cars and the possibility of coming cheaper over the Storebælt Bridge while the DSB is being reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191438	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191439	Now the money comes in after 2021, and then we have to discuss what that money is for from 2022. There I hope that we have had a change of government in Denmark, so you will see the sense that the money is spent on welfare and on green conversion. But I have also noted that the Danish People's Party has quite clearly announced that this money is not intended for business tax relief. So no matter what, there will be a majority in the Folketing that will spend the money on investing in welfare, and some of us will also invest in green conversion. That's where I hope it's my ambition that Enhedslisten will be on it and not just sit down and say: We won't spend that money, because we haven't helped to get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191518	Then it's mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191520	Thank you. Thanks to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a committed and clear speech which makes it possible to clearly define how little one agrees with, although one agrees on some points and disagrees on a number of other issues. But we are based on something different. Apparently there are also some who are based on a different story in relation to the teacher conflict and the lockout, which has been a theme earlier today. Annette Vilhelmsen, former chairman of the SF, has been out to say that it was agreed what course it should take. Her predecessor, as chairman of the SF, said that there was no agreement. Which one of them believes Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is telling the truth? Because they can't both be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191612	To be honest, I was not here myself, so I can't say for sure. But since it is the case that the reform of primary schools is only financed if the teacher's working hours are changed, there is something in me that rings a bell saying that there were probably not completely waterproof shutters as there should have been. That is why it is crucial for us to put this behind us and ensure that there are free and proper negotiations when we come to agreement 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191651	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191653	An interpretation of the answer I get is that the former chairman of SF Villy Søvndal in this course is not telling the truth. That suggests a bad culture, which I hope you in the party will work to improve for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191710	Now, as I said, I was not close to the process then, and I cannot decide what happened. But the fact that it ended up as it did, I find it deeply regrettable. I hope that there are more of us here in the Danish Parliament who think so and that we are therefore looking at what we can do better in the future. Because I believe that teachers, primary schools, our pupils and parents deserve better.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191731	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191733	My question is actually quite simple: why not, under Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, a LO family, that it will increase its disposable income by DKr 13 000, which will be the consequence of the government's tax proposals? Is it really Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's view that when a LO family increases its disposable income, it is not a welfare improvement? I am surprised because when there are wage negotiations, the trade union movement is very concerned that there should be wage increases, real wage increases. That is what a tax credit like that does. It is a real increase in wages in the sense of increasing one's disposable income. Why, under Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and the SF not the LO family that it gets increased its disposable income?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191827	Because we can only spend the money once. I really think that is a good, responsible principle. I have noted that the bourgeois people have dropped what is called responsible economic policy and choose to spend the money up to several times. But I am preoccupied with the fact that we are a little responsible with the economy in Denmark. Because if we're not, I know who's gonna pay. That's what the weakest do. I really don't mind us taking the tax off at the bottom. I would be quite prepared to look at that. But then I would obtain the funding by introducing a tax on financial transactions, for example. when banks such as Saxo Bank sit and trade in currency, with bonds, with shares and earn relatively much money in just a few seconds. It is not something that increases the value of someone in Denmark. On the other hand, it means an opportunity to make a tax income. And you can imagine if we just made a tiny tax of 0.1%. The European Commission has calculated it; it would mean 7 billion. kr. for tax relief at the bottom. I am, in fact, very tempted to do so if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen will be in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191931	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005191932	No, we do not want to do that, because it will also harm employees. The tax on financial transactions goes beyond pension companies, which manage employees' money, so it is also a really bad idea. But Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is right that the money can only be used once. Now you don't spend money when you put the treasure down. You let the LO family keep the money that the LO family has earned by selling their skills and their time to an employer. And that is where we have different priorities. There is money to both increase public spending and we can discuss whether to do so, but the government wants to do so and to let citizens keep more of the money they have earned themselves. It is only in here where we all have high incomes that one does not understand that for a LO family it is to increase welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005192028	Then it is the rapporteur's turn to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005192031	I love to argue with Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen. There is no doubt that we disagree on what the money should be used for in Danish society. It's true that the CCT is going to hurt a little, but who is it that it's going to hurt? It will harm those who pay top tax in Denmark. I don't really have much of a problem with that. After all, we have asked the Ministry of Finance about this, and I know that the Liberal Alliance recognises the figures of the Ministry of Finance. What is important to me is what kind of society we want in the future. Do we want each of us to take care of ourselves? It will be enormously expensive for the individual to fix it himself and have to pay for school, for health and for education and so on. I think it is more important that we strengthen the community and that together we ensure a strong Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005192114	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. That was the last question in this round. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005192129	Thank you for the floor. In 1 hour and 20 minutes the starting whistle for the important World Cup qualification match between Denmark and Montenegro will sound. I am dressed and ready for battle, and so are the Danish gentlemen. Here in the Folketing, too, we are about to be ready for battle. I think most of us are looking forward to the start of the new political season. I am not under any illusion that the new parliamentary year will be such a purely friendly match, but I hope that we can stand together on everything that makes Denmark better. Because as they say in DBU, we're all part of something bigger. And what is bigger than us is the Danish homeland, which we all love so much, and the people we are in politics to watch out for, although we have different styles of play and philosophy. If the Danish football team is to win tonight, it must have a strong defence. The same applies to Denmark as a country. We cannot risk standing back defenceless when the Eastern European troops act offensively and threaten to attack. And precisely the threat from the East is filling more and more. We saw that, among other things. recently, when up to 100,000 Russian soldiers were doing exercises close to NATO's border. The Danish defence wall must be so strong and robust that our opponents dare not attack. In the Conservative People's Party, in our more than 100-year history, we have always given priority to the country's defence, and we will also do so when it comes to making a new defence settlement. We want more air protection, we want to strengthen our air protection and we want us to be better able to defend ourselves against enemy submarines. These are two areas where Denmark is far too weak today. We will ensure the Danish defence a substantial boost for the first time in 20 years, because we need that. Every day, our soldiers make a fantastic effort for Denmark. They should know that they have our support, that we believe in them and that we support them in every everlasting battle they may face. As we sang to the EM in Germany in 1988: So whatever awaits, whatever happens, we are the Red-White Musketeers, and we say one for all, all for one, in smoke and steam for Denmark. Denmark and Sweden have also had many brother-shows in football, fortunately most often with Denmark as a victor, but when it comes to business, we must be careful to compete with the Swedes, because here they are the winners of us. During the period 2014-2016 Sweden had 35 times as many listings of smaller companies, even when correcting for our economies' different sizes. A competitive person like our Conservative Minister for Industry is very much concerned about this. He wants Denmark to play more offensively, and we can. We can do this by getting a better stock culture in Denmark. That is why we want to introduce a special share savings account and reduce the tax on shares. We have also presented a tax proposal that gives a boost to the whole team. Everyone should be able to feel that the hard work pays off, no matter what position you play on the field. We will ensure this with a new targeted job deduction and by removing the ceiling on the employment allowance. We facilitate taxes on work, pensions and cars by billions, but we ensure that money is still left for a good welfare society, and we also ensure that it will still be the case that the widest shoulders bear the greatest responsibility. Today, the director pays seven times as much in taxes as the HK, and so it will be if we implement the government's proposals to the letter. But it is clear that the greatest relief in crowns and ears comes to those where the pressure today is greatest and who pay most today. A good judge in a football match puts a hard line from the start, because then there will be no complaining along the way, and there will be no need for red cards. In the same way, we in Denmark must take a hard line against crime. We will not accept it, and that is why we are raising the penalty for gross violence by one third, just as in the new parliamentary year we completely remove the limitation period for sexual offences against children. We have on several occasions given the gangs direct red cards, among other things. with the big gang package, and we can also welcome the fact that more and more of them are being sent for cooling, not just in the locker room, but are being asked to move directly into prison. But we also need to put an end to gang recruitment. Therefore, we will soon be presenting a new playing plan, a plan that focuses on the preventive action that focuses on offering young people to become part of a different and healthier community, for example. in the local football club than what they find in the criminal world. I never thought I would quote the Brune Dotum from Parliament's platform, but they have put it very well in a football song from the year 2000: Ball is a lovely sport, but if you get to use your hands, you get the red card. Recently, it was our Conservative Minister for Children and Social Affairs who conned the football boots when she herself took part in a football tournament with the homeless. It is just one of many meetings that has taken place and which results in the Minister soon presenting a new action plan against homelessness. As she has rightly put it, as a society, we fail when being discouraged, powerless and hopeless ends up becoming homeless. Since 2009, the number of homeless people in Denmark has increased by approx. 1,600 people. Today, four out of five homeless people have an abuse of either alcohol or drugs or have mental problems. This requires coordinated action and a common plan, and we will soon be doing so, because it requires us to stand together, side by side, red and white. Soccer masters are about to sing. They sing, there is a lovely country/it stands with broad beech, and that's right. We have an incredibly beautiful country to watch out for. Since we entered the government, we have had better opportunities to fight for the green agenda, but I admit that there is less ramashang, but that does not make the results any less. We are in the process of implementing the first natural package, with priority being given to over 360 million. kr. in the green area. We have presented a financial bill with a budget of 500 million. kr. for climate, environment and nature, including money for the new nature objectives, which were so important for us Conservatives to get written into the government base. My goal is that red block and blue block can be combined into a common green voice, and that we can get the country these natural targets together, because regardless of how different the color of the sweater is, we share the love of green polish. The national team is part of something bigger. Here we stand together as a country and as a people, and we have fellowship across political differences and everything else. I believe that these common national gathering points are more important at a time when many are busy talking up disagreements between rich and poor, between country and city. Here it is more important to have something like the national team that we can gather about. Something that can also gather the Danes is the royal house, our ancient monarchy, which can make us feel like a part of something bigger. And there is nothing that can gather the Danes behind the TV screen as a royal wedding or a good football match. Let's hold on to what brings us together as people. Here the royal house has a very important place on the team, also in the year 2017. Finally, let me say that we look forward to working with all the players in this Chamber. The other day I read that William Kvist of the national team has become very enthusiastic about the alternative. This made me think a little about the start of the evening, both in the hall and on the national team. Perhaps we in Enhedslisten have Kasper Schmeichel, who would like to shout a little loudly and yell at his colleagues when necessary, but most often with a good heart. In the defence we have Simon Kjær as the Danish People's Party, who really understands the importance of a strong defence. Then we have Andreas Bjelland as the Social Democratic Party. It is a good midfield player who really wants to play ball with Simon Kjær. Then we have Jens String Larsen as the Liberal Alliance. It's a new player on the team, but one who makes it excellent. Then we have Henrik Dalsgaard as the Left; it is a great and talented player on the right. On the midfield we find Christian Eriksen, as the Radical Left. It's a great midfield player who can play ball up the left and the right. William Kvist as just the alternative, who must accept the new players and give them a good upbringing when they sometimes talk a little too hard to each other. Then we have Thomas Delaney, and it is of course us Conservatives with the great chrome-plated overview, which scores lots of goals, and which always goes on the field with charm, confidence and delicious hair. Pione Sisto as SF, and Andreas Cornelius as our Faroese colleague, and then I won't make it anymore. Let me say here at the end that I am delighted that the President has signalled that I have to end the question, even if there are sliding tackles, and if it becomes something so difficult that I cannot answer, I can always draw on another football quote: "There is so much women do not understand. ▪ Thank you for the word, and good fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193249	Thus a strong prelude to tonight's national struggle, and we start the questioning round. There's 45 minutes, and the first one is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193302	Thanks to the Conservative rapporteur for one in many ways, I think, both interesting and uplifting speech. I fully share the enthusiasm for the national team and also optimism for this evening, and I almost wanted, when I heard the rapporteur's speech, to make another football quote. Ricardo, the largest but perhaps also most underestimated Danish national coach, once said about Frank Arnesen that when he was delivered by the stork, he had flown all the way right next to a parrot, for he talks and talks. I also feel the same way about the Conservatives' environmental and climate policy. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Conservatives now that they have been taking part in the government for a year, whether they are satisfied with the green fingerprints on government policy as they stand. I am, of course, thinking in particular of the agreement reached a few weeks ago on support for renewable energy. Because if you compare what the government has played out with what industry and the opposition have played out with, it turns out that for more money you get less megawatt hours. Do you have Conservative reasons to be satisfied with that after a year in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193416	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193418	Now the questioner asked whether I was satisfied with what the author's own party had played out on. But I still have to see that because no money has been set aside for the green transition to the financial bill that has come. Nor is it in the 2025 plan that has been presented, so I have yet to see what the questioner's own team has to offer, so to speak, when it comes to the green transition. But of course I am a happy conservative when we choose to spend 1 billion. kr. to develop the green transition. It is money that comes to draw Denmark against the goal that we have, that by 2030 we must ensure that half of our energy comes from renewable energy. That brings us in the right direction, and that is why I am happy. But of course, as a Conservative, I can always wish for more on the green agenda, but, contrary to the questioner, I welcome it when you allocate 1 billion. kr. for the development of green energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193514	I do not think anyone is unhappy with it when money is set aside for green conversion. The question is just how to do it and whether to do it at the speed that some of us might wish us. I just want to repeat the question. When the Conservatives want to look up to be the green voice of the government, is it satisfied with the agreement that has been reached, which is really a brake on the green transition, if you compare it with the industry and opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193545	After all, the level of ambition was laid when we made a common energy settlement back in 2012, and we have actually delivered more than what we agreed in the energy settlement then. That is why I welcome the fact that 1 billion has now been found. kr. to continue the green expansion. This is important for Denmark. This is important for our industry. Then there has been some debate about whether it should be one model or another in relation to who should bear the risk, and it is clear that industry and the government have looked at this differently. It's no wonder.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193615	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193617	Thank you. We all look forward to the fight, and I hope that enthusiasm lasts all night. My question is a little directed at Brexit. There is one thing I have been trying to get an answer to all day because I simply do not understand it, and then it may be that Mrs Mette Abildgaard can explain to me the position of the Conservatives in that question. And it is about the fact that if we now base ourselves on what the Prime Minister also said last Tuesday that the most important thing for Denmark is trade with other countries, so that our business community is quite free to export to other countries' markets etc., that is to say to ensure our prosperity, then we also have a strong interest in continuing to export to Great Britain, also after Brexit. Can the rapporteur explain to me why it is in Danish interest to say to the British that we will only make the strongest possible free trade agreement with those who really mean holding them in the internal market if, at the same time, they will accept the free movement of citizens from all over Europe to their country?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193717	I'll try. Now I have also heard what my colleagues from the other governing parties have said during the day, and I must say that there will be no great surprises in relation to the answers that have come from them. For me, in connection with the Brexit we are facing, it is about Denmark having the best possible starting point when we are left with a full Brexit. For me, it is crucial that we have a European Union that is committed to cooperation and that we also have to say is not a roof-top table. Well, you can't choose on and off and take all the parts you think are good, and then leave the rest untouched. We have to balance it in this way, and that is what we are doing now. Well, I am delighted that the debate has become a little more constructive lately. The fourth round of negotiations, I think, has become a little more constructive on the part of all parties, and I hope then that a solution can be found for this, where there are no parties left behind, although I must admit that I would have liked it not to have become a Brexit at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193816	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193818	But what is it that Denmark would lose by allowing the British, if they could now be kept in the single market, to decide for themselves who is walking to their country, among other things. From Eastern Europe? What is it that Denmark as a country would lose by it? I simply do not understand that. On the contrary, I can see that our companies, especially our food companies, have an enormous interest in being able to export as freely as possible to the British market. Then it may well be that we have to go over there to eat the good bacon, and so it must be, but we have a huge interest in it. So I can see that we have an interest in keeping them in the internal market if that is possible. What, then, is it that we would lose by saying that the trade we can make with them about it is that they are allowed to take care of their own borders and decide who from the European continent can go to Britain and settle?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193903	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193905	In concrete terms, I think that what Denmark is going to lose is that we are going to develop an EU that will be exactly this roof-top table, where you can choose from and to choose from. I believe that what Denmark will lose is that we will develop the freedom of movement, which will not become a permanent elementary part of our EU cooperation, but will be something that we can do if we want to. And I just don't think that is an EU we are interested in, because we have won so much by being able to travel freely, work freely, trade with each other, etc. So that's what I can fear Denmark is going to lose by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193936	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005193939	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good and funny speech. I would like to congratulate the Conservative People's Party for writing nature objectives into the government base and for the extended hand, in relation to the fact that we stand together in the work for Denmark's nature. I think that's really, really good statements. I am genuinely concerned that Denmark's CO2 Now there has been an intense spin campaign that it is only due to the weather, but I think that we two are well aware that CO2 What makes the increase particularly worrying is that it is in the two sectors that contribute to the majority of Denmark's climate load, namely transport and agriculture, and also that it happens after the government has implemented a number of initiatives that get CO2 In the two sectors it is also agreed that it will increase CO2 Now the Conservatives are the green voice of the government, so I would like to hear the rapporteur if the Conservatives share the concern that Denmark's CO2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194100	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194102	Thank you. But it is quite indisputable that Denmark will have to make a greater effort in what is called the non-quota sectors, i.e. among other things. the agricultural and transport sectors. And we are doing so because we have made some commitments to the European Union, which says that we must reduce by around 39%. Towards 2030. So it goes without saying that there will be an increased effort in Denmark. But we are already doing something, and so has the bourgeois government. We've got one of them. Increased this incorporation requirement in relation to biofuels it has an impact on the transport sector. As far as agriculture is concerned, we have among other things. back in June set aside money for such a biorefining plant, which could have a rather large climate effect compared to ensuring this extraction of protein from grass instead of using imports of soya from, for example, South America.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194152	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194153	I think we agree that we do not achieve the objective compared with the 39% mentioned by the rapporteur himself. Can the rapporteur reveal any more ideas, as the Conservative People's Party does, in relation to what else needs to be done? Because this is one of the most important issues in terms of climate right now, namely what else we need to put in place to reduce CO2 so what are the Conservatives thinking in terms of 2030 and beyond?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194225	Now I mentioned a few specific things that have been done, but I would also like to try to look a little more forward in time. I think it is very much about bringing electricity into our transport sector, but also in heating our homes. There we just have an electricity tax today which prevents us from using our electricity more appropriately, and I think we need to address that in broad cooperation very soon, because it cannot be true that we are punishing an energy source that we would basically like to have a higher level of use of because it is green.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194254	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194258	Thank you. I also have to fish a little in the green, and there it is that we have heard the government several times pride ourselves on being the greenest government ever. This should be the target of 50 per cent in particular. renewable energy by 2030, which is used as the basis for the claim. Does the rapporteur agree that the government is the greenest ever?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194323	If you ever have the greenest government, I won't be judging you. I have no figures and no facts on it, but we have a green government, I know that for sure, and now the objective we have is being called into question that 50%. of our energy needs by 2030 must be covered by renewable energy. A little different figures and targets have been presented from the opposition, but of course among others. Danish Industry has counted on it and tried to translate it into what it would correspond to in relation to the objectives the government has set itself, and there I think it has landed on a figure called 50.58 per cent. in 2030. We can negotiate on the last one percent if that is what makes it possible for us to get along and work constructively on the green agenda, instead of it being such a battleground in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194409	I think it's gonna take a little more than that. If you look at how things have been going over the past many years and predict that development, we will land in the order of 60%. in 2030, and if we look at the Paris Agreement's goal to stay below 1.5 to max. 2 degrees a year, you're going to have to get into that league. So if we are to keep that pace, does the rapporteur think that we can settle for a little more than 50, or are we going to have to have new buns on the soup? Does it take more to get us to the finish line?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194447	The government basis we have created says that Denmark must have at least 50%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. But it says at least 50%. in the government basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194507	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194510	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I simply have to ask, because we were the last to be mentioned: why are we Pione Sisto? It's mostly because I'm just curious to hear it. I can't just let that hang in the air. I think it is an excellent choice, but I am curious about the explanatory statement. Having said that, I would also like to hear about something political, namely whether the Conservatives, after entering government, have completely abandoned the idea that our children in schools need shorter school days. For the Conservatives were very active before they came into government, but afterwards it is as if the struggle in the conciliation circle has at least diminished, and the announcements about this have diminished. I still think it's just as important an agenda, so I'm kind of missing an active Conservative in that fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194603	SF is Pione Sisto because it is a strong and fast player on the left wing. That was my best argument for it. With regard to the rather more serious issue of school policy, it is quite true that the Conservative People's Party has been, and we continue to be, very sceptical about the fact that we have had such long school days, and we are very sceptical about these forced homework cafes. That is also why it was only forced after a parliamentary election. The Conservative People's Party, as such, does not see these issues differently today than before we went to government, but it is clear that when we take the discussions on this, we take it within the government, and that is why I am also glad that we have a government basis that says that we should take advantage of the levels of freedom that exist in the reform of primary school. This agreement has also been made on the 50 schools where you can try to challenge the setup a little. So I think that is two good elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194657	Thank you for a good reason in relation to Pione Sisto. In relation to the other, there are still more than 1,000 schools in addition to the 50 schools involved in this attempt, and I also think that we need to find a solution for them. I fully understand that a government needs to discuss itself properly, but now it has been discussed for some time, and I really have the feeling that our minister in this area feels somewhat the same as I think, namely that shorter school days are needed at least to a certain extent. Then we could not be prepared to vote in favour of some of what we are presenting in the conciliation circle, which is precisely about the need to have greater freedom to change school days shorter if we make two adult arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194736	I think that the SF and the Conservative People's Party are looking at this issue fairly equally, but if we could now make the agreement that I am fighting within the government for those views, and the questioner may then be fighting internally in the red block, because there are also some who have to convince this view with the too long school days before we can make any changes in any conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194758	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194800	Thank you. I cannot in any way boast of having such an insight into football as Mrs Mette Abildgaard has, I am very impressed. I'll tell you what. However, I think it is worth mentioning that in 14 days, 22 hours, 26 minutes and 43 seconds, the most successful Danish national football team meets, namely the women's team, precisely Sweden, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned. And in this context, it is also important to remember that on any team it is now Mrs Mette Abildgaard put the team here in the Parliament is important to have someone who can both set goals and score goals, and that is why of course I am also glad that the Social Democratic President has a past in B52, the same football club that Nadia Nadim has as a club. Having said that, it is also important to score green targets and set green targets, and I have to ask if Conservatives believe that it is important that we broadly agree on green energy objectives in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194911	Those football metaphors were very clever, for at least half of their football jargon Question Time was used by the authors, but the question was quite simple, so I was lucky to have it included. Yes, I think it is so important that we make broad energy reconciliations. I think that one of the greatest strengths of the energy reconciliation we made in 2012 is that it spans widely. This has made it difficult along the way, I must be the first to admit, just in the short time I have been with, but it provides a predictability with regard to our energy policy, which is so crucial for all the green companies we have. We have a green export for about 70 billion. kr. and have so many green jobs in this country, and we owe it to them to create security and predictability about our energy policy where possible and where all parties are willing to reach a compromise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194957	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005194959	Well, that is an answer that I am extremely satisfied with, because as a Social Democrat I am in complete agreement, and that is of course not least in bliss, Mr President. Svend Auken's spirit. However, I must also say that this is something of a self-interest which Mrs Abildgaard's government has just scored on this matter, since a narrow political agreement was recently reached in this area. I just have to warn both the Conservatives and the other governments to continue along this path, and I hope that today the Conservatives can provide a guarantee that a future energy settlement will also be broadly based.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195037	I was also incredibly sorry that it became a narrow agreement to invest 1 billion. kr. in the green transition. It annoyed me so much that there were no more parties in the Folketing who wanted to support it. What the dispute basically consisted of was whether one grant model or the other grant model should be used, depending on whether it is the one where the industry bears the risk or the one where the state bears the risk. I think it is a pity that it was technicalities that made it impossible for us to agree on that agreement. So let us hope that it is not something like that that divides us when we hope to make a very, very broad energy reconciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195111	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195114	I'd like to go back to the defense, not on the rifle, but on the barracks, naval stations and air stations. We share an ambition that Denmark should have a strong defence, and I would like to hear a little about that, so I would like to ask the rapporteur how far one is willing to go in the Conservative People's Party. It is the case that when the conciliation is to be concluded it must be concluded by a number of parties, and it is of course no secret that at least a party in the current conciliation circle certainly does not like to have to strengthen the defence. What is most important for the Conservative People's Party: a settlement that ensures a strong defence, or a settlement that contains many parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195159	Well, for the Conservative People's Party, the most important thing is to give the defence the substantial boost it needs. This is far more important to us than which parties are behind it. There are very different views when it comes to defence policy, including in the existing conciliation circle, and we are just in a situation where the threat is greater than it has been for many years and where we need to strengthen Danish defence. And there we think it is the consideration that weighs supremely. So I can say without a great deal of doubt in my voice that we have the highest weight to give the defence the substantial boost that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195232	I'm really glad to hear that. I go a little further and ask: can the Conservative People's Party accept a deterioration in the current military service, i.e. shortening the already shortened military training so that it is even shorter than the current 4 months of basic training?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195253	Well, from the Conservative People's Party's point of view, we would very much like to strengthen military service. We believe it has an important function in even a modern defense like what we have today. That is why I do not see that we are going to go down in the number of conscripts or in the length of time they are due. But it also requires us to have a good part played by the Danish People's Party in the negotiations that are ahead. And then I would say that what is perhaps even more important than this question of length and number is that we have a model in which the conscripts remain part of the defense, so that even after the 3-4 months have passed, they continue to have an attachment that allows us to call them if needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195329	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195331	Thank you. The stars were blinking in the eyes of the rapporteur when she said that we should now have an essential boost in our military spending, because now we should be able to defend ourselves because there are some who are threatening us. It is indeed exciting to face the stars, but I now feel that when something like this is said by politicians and others, it is because people have to believe that we are threatened. Is the rapporteur not a little afraid that with a piece of equipment exactly what we do not want to do, that is to say Putin will benefit Russia? Because he's actually waiting for some people to say that now we're reacting to his seemingly unpredictable things. Is the rapporteur not afraid that we will make sure that he can be re-elected next time when we arm up, so that he too can arm up, and so that he can say that they need a strong man in Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195428	I really think the questioner should ask this question in Crimea. Is the threat overestimated? I think they would give a very clear answer: no, the threat is not overestimated. We are not taking it seriously enough. I do not agree very much with President Donald Trump, but there are two things we agree on in this world. One thing is that we both prefer to have our steaks cooked through. It's like that on a peaceful level. In addition, however, we also fully agree that European leaders are failing when we do not invest more in our own defence. And then I'm just having a hard time understanding something. In this floor, we usually agree that when we make commitments at international level, whether it is our budget in terms of research or development aid, we have to live up to it; when we set climate and energy objectives, etc. Why is it that we do not have an obligation to live up to the objective that we have helped to set ourselves to spend 2%? of our gross domestic product on defence. I will never understand why we do not have an obligation to live up to what we ourselves have agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195529	I'm gonna call in the house. I didn't sign up for 2%. Anywhere, and I'll never get to it either. I believe that armaments are the way to a great risk. Disarming and peaceful coexistence is the way to a secure and calm world. And when the rapporteur tells us unilaterally that the Russians have done exercises, one forgets that at the same time NATO had a huge, huge exercise, Aurora, in the Baltic Sea. When the rapporteur says these things, she also forgets that Denmark is not even behind the United Nations in its attempt to ban nuclear weapons, knowing that the most unstable presidents today have access to the red button, both Putin and the colleague, which was mentioned positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195615	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195617	It may well be that the questioner has never agreed to those commitments, but Denmark as a country, and that is what counts. I just don't belong to the politicians who think we should put in an answering machine that just says that we surrender. For that, I just like our country too much. Then it is quite right that there have also been other exercises with NATO soldiers. With the big difference, the international rules of play have been observed in relation to such exercises, i.e. by warning them and informing them of how many you are and what you are doing. Why have the Russians not complied with these rules? I can be worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195650	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195651	Thank you. I think that in North Korea, when they see this, they think that it is still nice to have a woman in the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, who explains in football language how to increase defence budgets on land, on water and in the air. We need more air defence, we need more submarines, we need many more fighters and so on. There's a whole palette of things you want. Mrs Mette Abildgaard did not go so far as to say that the Ministry of Defence should have a new name for the Ministry of War, but it was very, very close. What is the question is that all of this has to be financed. We haven't even heard what the government thinks a substantial boost is. It may be that Mrs Mette Abildgaard can tell us what a real substantial boost to defence is. And then it is that the bill has to be paid. There I would like to hear the Conservative People's Party: who is going to pay for all this while proposing massive tax cuts for the richest?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195749	Well, I'd love to answer that. The substantial boost we would like to give to the defence will, of course, be funded. Anything else would be deeply irresponsible. It will not be long before the government presents its proposal, and then you will be able to see what the financing needs are. Although the Conservative People's Party, I think, has made solid impressions on the scenario that will come, I can also reveal that all our dreams may also be very specific, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's dreams of submarines etc. But that does not change the fact that we can fight for it in the long term. But it's clear that we're going to fund this. There is, of course, in the proposals we have presented, also a reserve to cover security. We are going to use the room for manoeuvre, but I think we can defend that in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195838	Now it is a fact of fact that the Conservative People's Party left right when we were buying fighter planes, and we were left behind with that task. You've joined what the rest of us did, and that's fine, but you want something more. It's okay, too. But I'm asking you how you're going to fund it. You want so much money for billions of dollars worth of submarines and a whole range of other things that cost billions of dollars, while at the same time giving tax reliefs. We haven't heard anything about what a substantial boost is. Is this the case this year, or does the Conservative People's Party think that it is possible to allow future governments to find it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195919	I must start by correcting and saying that the Conservative People's Party did not leave the defence alliance because of the number of fighter planes. We did so because of the way in which we wanted to finance the number that was once bought. That would lock up the defence's material budget for a very long time, and we could not stand by that, and that is why we chose to reject it. But now we are part of the settlement again because we have entered the government and we look forward to giving the defence the substantial boost that is needed. The price of it and the financing of it must be paid by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen arm himself a little with patience to get, but it won't be many weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195953	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005195955	At the National Council of the Conservatives in 2015, the Chairman of the Conservatives, Søren Pape Poulsen, who is Minister of Justice today, said about the Public Service Act, which deals with the ministerial service rule, the parliamentary politician rule and the calendar rule, the following:... For the past year, I have been searching for answers as to whether there is any reason to have those paragraphs. I do not think those reasons are important enough. ▪ That is a very significant statement. That was two years ago, and now almost a year has passed since the Minister of Justice became Minister of Justice. The Conservative People's Party has a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants exactly what the Minister of Justice said on the National Council of the Conservatives. So what is really happening? When do you Conservatives use the majority there to roll back the three paragraphs of the Public Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200057	I myself was one of those who was very enthusiastic about the speech made at the time by my party chairman. I myself was one of those who stood and demonstrated at the Palace Square behind me in connection with the Public Service Act at the time. This is, by the way, the only demonstration I have taken part in in my life, I think I have to make. Therefore, it was also important for the Conservative People's Party that it was written into the government base that there should be a review of this rule of ministerial service. This has been specifically mentioned in the government base, and there have been some discussions and they are also still going on between the various parties, which are now part of the conciliation circle that is in the area. We have a responsibility to discuss it within the conciliation circle. If we can reach agreement, we can of course make a change of law that can take effect immediately, and if we cannot reach agreement in the conciliation circle, we may have to say that then we have to terminate the conciliation, but then it is only on the other side of a choice that we can change things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200146	What I do not understand is that when you make such a clear and harsh statement, and now you have been in the position of Minister of Justice for almost a year, and when you know that there is a majority in the Folketing who will exactly what you announced two years ago at the Conservatives' National Council, why nothing happens. I simply do not understand that. The second is that there will then have to be some discussion in a conciliation circle. I hope that the Conservative People's Party is very aware of the majority that exists in the Folketing to roll back the three paragraphs and not to make some lax compromise when there is a majority in the parliament that wants something else. It cannot be the case that the dynamics of a conciliation circle prevent the majority that actually manifests itself in the Folketing from being heard in relation to the changes to the legislation that should be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200230	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200231	It may well be that at some point this majority will be used, but I have to say that when we have a conciliation group in one area, as well as we talked about the energy conciliation group before, we have a responsibility towards that conciliation group. And although the Conservative People's Party is quite clear about what we want, there are other parties that look at it differently, including parties that Enhedslisten supported under a previous government. So there are just different views on this. The Conservative People's Party is clear. It is not just a matter of obtaining a majority, but also that there is a conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200305	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200306	Thank you to Mrs Abildgaard for a very fine speech. I am one of those who is not so surprised that women know so much about football, so it's really good. I would like to ask you about this with stricter penalties. After that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has become Minister of Justice, I have noticed that there is a lot of focus on punishment escalation, and this is backed up by the entire government. And I would like to ask you about prevention and the fact that we ignore the fact that prevention can actually ensure that they do not commit crime again. So I would like to hear the rapporteur elaborate on how to weigh more stringent penalties against prevention and whether the government has not gone as far as to the fact that it is only about stricter penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200409	Thank you. I still have a bruise on my knee from the last time I played football with Mrs Josephine Fock, although it was quite a fun football match. For the Conservative People's Party, consideration for the victim and the victim's sense of justice is absolutely crucial. We find it so difficult to accept cases of serious crime and then the penalty is so infinitely short that you risk facing your perpetrator shortly after he has been convicted. For us, however, it is not a either-or-i.e. either a severe punishment or prevention. Of course you can both, and that is why I said in my speech that we will soon have a new approach to preventive action and juvenile delinquency. But I also believe that the questioner's and my party's views on this and on how far they go, for example. must go against the fact that some of the convicted have to pay legal costs, etc., so as to ensure that they do not come out and commit new crimes. There we just look at things very differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200513	Thank you for that answer, and this is where I would really like the journalists to be awake and to come along. Because the question that is never asked in this context is about the new victims that we know are coming. Because we know that it does not help with a sharpened sentence in a large number of cases where there is already a nicely high penalty. We know, on the other hand, that prevention helps so that these people don't go out and do it again. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: why do the Conservatives never ever think about preventing it from happening again so that we do not have new victims who could rightly criticise the government and say: if you now know that they are going out and doing it again, why is there no more focus on prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200607	However, the focus is precisely on prevention, in that we are on the way with a number of new initiatives in that very area. It is a trade-off, but I do not buy the premise that people should not be punished as they deserve, because what they have done is simply to go out and make new crimes. In this way people simply must not be an excuse for themselves. Take, for example, the case of Nanna, who was beaten with a bike chain on Christmas night. This is one of the cases that has made a huge impression on me, and I really feel that, as a society, we are failing in the very, very short sentence they were sentenced to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200639	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200642	Thank you. If you listen to what the government says in terms of defence, you can be confused at a higher level. We have the Conservative Defence Rapporteur, who argues for a doubling of military service and, in addition, for more military service to be called, so it is not a doubling of military capacity, it is perhaps a triple or a quadruple. On the same day, the Liberal Alliance's defence rapporteur argues that it will not be with their support at all; on the contrary, they are working to abolish military service. These are somewhat contradictory reports, so my question is as follows: can the pants hold, or are they cracking? What can we expect from the government's initiative? What will the Conservatives do about the reality of the government alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200743	I think the questioner is trying to establish some false contradiction. It may come as a breaking news, and if there are journalists awake, then they can put the yellow beam on, but we are three different parties in the government. There's a reason we are. That's because we look at a number of things differently. We're kind of open and honest about that. Yeah, that's right, we look at military service differently. There are different starting points, depending on whether you belong to the Liberal Alliance or, for example, the Conservative People's Party, but of course we come up with a joint initiative which will be what we have been able to agree on and what we will join together in going to the negotiating table. I don't think there's anything weird about that if I'm to be honest. Our rapporteurs in this area, both Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance and our own Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party represent the two parties, and then we have a defence minister who represents the government in a very distinguished way and represents the compromises agreed upon.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200840	No, the government is perfectly entitled to disagree diametrically with itself. No one will take that away from you. It has to be said that it is hardly possible to have more opposing positions, so my question is, as such, just: what can the Conservatives accept? Can the Conservatives accept that the length of the military service period will be reduced, that military service may even be abolished, as there are strong forces in the government working for? What will the Conservatives be able to accept in such a government proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200920	Well, of course, the Conservative People's Party cannot accept the complete abolition of military service, but there will be a joint initiative from the government, which is the expression of a very, very fine compromise, and I must perhaps remind the questioner of what it was like to sit in government itself. I also remember certain disagreements. There was a dispute over something about earmarked maternity, where I know that the questioner had some very strong views that were changed with a fingertips. There are internal government statements, there is nothing unpleasant about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200948	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005200951	When the rapporteur is finished, I have a little gummi here. Because I think that the rapporteur should have a price for the most cozy and delightful speech, although I almost disagree with everything in it. But peace be to it. Sometimes you have to get gifts when you do it well. I would like to hear the rapporteur about the forthcoming energy conciliation: how the Conservatives view it, what ambitions should be in relation to it, and whether it should be broadly anchored in the Folketing, or whether it should be made narrow, like the agreement reached with the Danish People's Party last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201030	The Conservative People's Party has the clear objective and ambition of making a broad energy reconciliation. As I mentioned in one of my previous answers, we owe it to the security and predictability of Danish energy policy. That is also why we in the Conservative People's Party were very opposed to canceling the construction of these coastal mills, which were decided in an energy settlement because it would give us an unpredictability. Investors simply need security and predictability about something as large and as comprehensive as an energy reconciliation. That security and predictability is the best way to achieve a broad settlement. However, as I mentioned earlier, it requires that all parties are willing to move against each other, because that requires it in a broad parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201107	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201108	Yes, it is true that everyone must approach each other. However, when the rapporteur says that we need a broad energy conciliation, I would like to ask how the Conservatives could support the fact that it was so narrow an agreement last week, which is more expensive than what the industry proposed, which makes it much more unpredictable, because it is a narrow settlement, and at the same time is not as good for the climate as if we had chosen the other model. Expensive, bad for the climate and unpredictable is it something that the Conservative People's Party loves?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201147	No, it's not. I would also have liked it to have been a broad agreement to invest 1 billion. kr. in the development of renewable energy. I find it a pity that there are no more parties in the Folketing who wanted to support this. It was a technicality, compared to what kind of tender model you wanted, which separated the waters. One might say that the advantage of the model one has chosen is that there is a predictability in it. It is not so dependent on how prices are going to rise and fluctuate. We have been challenged with the PRS, compared to the electricity price developing differently than we had anticipated. That's a big extra bill. That security, so to speak, has been taken with the model that has been chosen here. That is the argument behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201226	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201227	Thank you. I'm just getting a pass from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and sticking around the energy agreement, because we can't let that go yet. I understand that the rapporteur is even very pleased with the energy agreement that the government and DF made last week bypassing the other conciliation parties. The reason should be that industry needs a clear and firm framework. I heard the rapporteur say that just now. But the industry has just said that this is a totally wrong and unnecessary use of too many tax dollars. How can the rapporteur explain that the Conservatives are quite satisfied that a very high price of 1.3 billion is being paid? kr. We have a small amount of energy of 200 MW, when the industry itself has promised that twice as much energy could be supplied for 200 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201335	Let me start by saying that the two-year agreement that has been concluded with the Danish People's Party is not an energy settlement. We have one energy reconciliation, and that's it from 2012. It's an experimental arrangement in relation to these technology-neutral tenders. Then it is true that the wind turbine industry in particular has been very critical of this. First of all, they have been critical of being able to compete with the sun to deliver the best product at the lowest price. They're not very happy about that. They wish they'd just get the funds earmarked. But we need to be able to use our support crowns where we get the most out of them. And then I think we should be a little bit more critical of the calculations that have flown back and forth. Because when the wind turbine industry clearly prefers the one model and the brand is the ones we have to pay to set up the wind turbines, then it is clear that they have some interests in this whole debate. The calculations made in the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate indicate that they here say that it will be able to double with the other model, simply not holding water.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201436	Well, now I have to say that it was the parties outside the government and DF who made sure that there was money for the sun as well. But we're gonna go to another ball street, if I may say so. Minister for Business and Industry, Brian Mikkelsen, said in the handover of the Ministry of Business and Growth, that we must have spoiled business. Does the rapporteur think that the government is spoiling business with the proposal for a business package that has been put forward, which overall increases labour supply by 500 people and gross domestic product by 750 million? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201518	I just have to make a brief comment in relation to solar cells: this billion set aside is something that the government and the Danish People's Party have set aside in this technology-neutral offer, where also solar would be able to offer. Then I understand that there is another agreement that has been made today, but it is a story for itself. I am completely on the goal that the Conservative People's Party and this government want to provide good conditions for Danish business. For if we do, we get the Danes into work, we get growth in this country, and that is also what is ultimately the prerequisite for a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201547	Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201549	Thank you very much. After all, the sports metaphors have turned up tremendously, so I would like to thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard for having taken care of the warming. There was, however, one of the exercises that was just too violent for me, and that was the exercise that was about defence. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard, and I do so in the hope of having a rebuttal answer... about Mrs Mette Abildgaard's view that it is fair to compare war with entertainment, and whether Mrs Mette Abildgaard thus believes that a victory in one place should be celebrated like a victory in the other place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201640	I am not quite sure whether I understand the question put by the questioner. If it is a criticism of my use of sports metaphors, including defence, then the questioner has just committed exactly the same crime. But, of course, we need to look at it seriously. I seriously consider that Denmark's security is under threat. This is not something to be joked about, and that is also why we give priority to strengthening the Danish defence. We have a duty to do so. That is the prerequisite for us to be able to live safely and freely in this country. So it's important to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201713	Thank you. Yes, it was a small criticism of the very exercise that concerned the defence. My good colleague, Mrs Josephine Fock, mentioned something else, namely crime, and here I would like to get the self-interest of using sports rhetoric right away and ask whether the Conservative People's Party could imagine that the hard game of crime is also counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201750-2	Yes, it is essential that we punish in a way that guarantees the sense of justice, but of course we must also keep an eye on the fact that we must get some whole people out on the other side, who do not come out and commit new crime. That is why we are also focusing on the whole of the rehabilitation effort. We are already investing large amounts of money on it in our prisons, and that is sensible enough, because, of course, we need to get whole people to the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201814	The last one we get in this round is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201819	Thank you. And thank you for a as usual excellent speech with a lot of good soccer quotes. Here is another which I think is very appropriate for the government's self-understanding: it does not matter that we lose every single fight as long as we win the league. Yeah, that's said by a not too smart Australian player in the English league, but it doesn't matter. At any rate, I think it is very appropriate in relation to the overall self-conception of the government in relation to the whole climate area. For each and every time an agreement is reached that increases CO2 Therefore, I just want to ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard for the Conservatives all the time, and many of us believe that they are a green party: where is the huge shift, especially in the non-quota sector, so that we can get to the goal, because it is hard to see the possibility of right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201935	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005201936	First of all, thank you for your kind words. In reply to the question, if you look at the agreements reached by the government currently in office, the Tripartite Government, which is going to increase CO2, I would at least like to hear the questioner outline the long series of agreements to which it refers. The previous government made an agreement with the PSO, and that was a bottom-up task that the author's party was also involved in resolving by making the agreement on PSO, as we did. Then we have made an agreement in relation to the car tax, which in the assessment is about CO2 but I must also be quite honest and say that where we see there is a big battle waiting, is then when a new energy reconciliation is to be made. Here we really need to set the direction of how ambitious we are. We have fought hard to have an objective written into the government base about our share of renewable energy by 2030, and objectives are good and important in climate policy and energy policy, but much more important is the action, and we get it through an energy reconciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202046	It is precisely in the non-quota sector that we see major challenges. And then we say, particularly to the Left, who would like to do something for agriculture: if you do not take a proper move on transport, it must be agriculture that has to stand up for. That's what we ask over and over again. I asked the climate minister just this afternoon what it took. Every time we ask, we're told: Well, we win the league every time there's a lost cause. And it may well be that it is only a small step backwards in some agreements, but even a large deal that is CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202132	I welcome the fact that the questioner did not come up with this long outline of agreements we have made that will increase CO2 but I must also say that it is absolutely true that we are not finished talking about how to reduce our emissions in, for example, the transport sector by 2030. We need to get more electricity into our trains and all sorts of other places in our transport system. We will return to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202158	Then we thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard, because the time has passed. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005202207	Thank you very much. In many ways this is going very well in Greenland, but in 2016 growth was no more than 7 to 8 per cent, while in 2017 it is expected to be 3 to 4 per cent. The growth in Greenland will decrease slightly in 2018, unless we see a realisation of the airport project Kalaallit Airports and other major public buildings that will enter into force next year. In the long run, it can be said that reforms are needed and Inatsisartut is aware of this, but reforms cannot do so alone if we are to ensure that the long-term economic challenges are resolved. The challenges are to find long-term solutions to basic societal challenges, which is important to prioritise politically. For what do we do when the big vintages retire and leave a void in the labour market, how do we maintain older people in Greenland society when we know that the civil servant pension is twice as high in Denmark as in Greenland because of the large wage differences that exist, and how do we create growth in existing companies, and how do we support entrepreneurs? These are some of the fundamental social challenges to which we also have to find answers and solutions in Greenland. Not only can we move the money around, we also need to generate some new ones, and we need to create sustainable growth based on our own visions for future Greenland. The need to spread Greenland's business development to several business pillars is a matter for Inuit Ataqatigiit. Here, education is a crucial key to development in Greenland. Today we find that there is an increasing inequality in Greenland, in fact there is more difference between rich and poor in Greenland than there is in the United States. The link between increased industrial development and a well-trained population is uncertain. If we want to develop and combat inequality, it is important that more people receive education than is the case today. It is about getting more people to contribute, it is about more people getting into work and fewer living with social problems. Then it is also about creating some jobs around Greenland, and it is about Greenland itself having the human resources and competences that will lead to increased political self-determination. That is why we cannot say from Inuit Ataqatigiits, that is enough, because education is really the key to development. In Greenland we in Inuit Ataqatigiit are particularly concerned with the alcohol law. We are also concerned with the fisheries law, which will both be dealt with in Inatsisartut in the near future. In many ways, it can be said that it is not alcohol in itself that is a problem, but it is more abuse that is a problem. Alcohol abuse is still a major social problem in Greenland, and it affects a great many of us. Although we have been drinking less per person for a long period of time. people living in Greenland than they drink per year. citizens of Denmark, we see that especially the drunkenness is a huge problem for our society. Children and relatives are the ones who feel the consequences, but this also applies to companies, including employers who suffer from alcohol abuse. A healthier alcohol culture will benefit society as a whole, and it will have a positive contagion on, among other things. the area of justice, which we are concerned with here in the Folketing, because we know that very much crime is committed in drunken state. Similarly, it can also be said that the Fisheries Act is a very important law for Greenland when it is to be dealt with. The fishing industry remains, without comparison, the most important industry in Greenland, which is why the Fisheries Act will undoubtedly be a very difficult but important debate over the autumn and in the coming spring. Inuit Ataqatigiit has recently launched a comprehensive defence policy initiative in the Danish Parliament which points to 10 goals for a safer Arctic. Today there are very few Greenlanders in the defence, and on the basis of the government's Arctic analysis, the current conciliation group decided last year that the defence in Greenland should be strengthened by 120 million. kr. a year in the future. The recommendations are now being implemented, but from Inuit Ataqatigiits we are critical of the government's desire to strengthen defence in Greenland without integrating it more closely into Greenlandic society. If we really want to strengthen the defence, we need to have more Greenlanders in the defence. If you as a young Greenlander want to volunteer for the defence today, you will first of all need a trip to North Zealand, where you will have to sign up and participate in the defence day, and then you will also have to serve as a military service in Denmark. If the defence is to be locally anchored in Greenlandic society, and if there are to be more young Greenlanders who voluntarily want to be part of the defence, we want Inuit Ataqatigiits to establish a voluntary civil defence training in Greenland. Several Greenlandic youths in Arctic Command will strengthen defence tasks in Greenland. The fact that we in Greenland know about nature, know the area, know the language is a huge advantage for the defence. Those funds are not set aside in the current conciliation circle and in the current conciliation agreement as it stands. We think so, among other things. must be given priority in a future defence settlement. In the coming parliamentary year, a major settlement is also being negotiated on the subject of criminal justice. Security and justice for citizens are important objectives for Inuit Ataqatigiit. Naalakkersuisut, the Greenland Government, has made a number of requests for strengthening criminal justice services in Greenland, just as Inuit Ataqatigiit has made a judicial policy proposal. Naalaksuisut will come up with a plan of action in relation to justice. All this helps to set clear and important objectives for strengthening justice, including criminal justice. It is important that we ourselves, on the Greenland side, also have clear objectives when it is that things should be negotiated here in the Folketing. We are pleased that the government recently decided to allocate 40 million. kr. to strengthen the justice area in Greenland, for it has been a field of action on our part. This is a good start in an area where there is a huge backlog, because the figures for crime in Greenland speak its own clear language. There are four times as many people in Greenlandic establishments as in the rest of the Nordic countries. At the same time, we also know that three out of four of the inmates are in prison because of dangerous crime in Denmark, it is four out of ten. When you look at the figures for crime, we often talk about the inmates, but I think it is really important that you also focus on the victims, because when we talk about three out of four who are in prison for personal crime in Greenland, it is important to remember that the number of victims is really, really large in Greenlandic society. It is also noted that Naala Suisut has committed nearly 1 million. kr. to strengthen the justice area in Greenland. Naalakkersuisoq for the Justice Office in Greenland, Sara Olsvig, has among other things. the establishment of violence victim advice and a general strengthening of the social area, including the area of socially vulnerable children and young people. It is important that citizens experience justice. It is important that citizens have confidence that the police intervene when there is an offence. This presupposes that the police are present everywhere so that we are not left in a lawless society. Greater security can be created by increasing the focus on the victims. Today, we have a focus primarily on the perpetrator, and we think it is important that, in future, we also have a greater focus on the victims and the victims' legal status when offences occur. If we look at the staff in the area of justice, it is important that they have a proper framework for the work they are doing. It is a valuable task that they carry out on behalf of the Danish state in Greenlandic society. The level of competence of staff has been continuously improved over the years, but there are areas where the need for increased focus on professionalisation is necessary. We know that wages have an impact on the maintenance of employees. Opportunities for training, further training in the area of justice help to strengthen legal certainty in Greenland. Therefore, training is essential to maintain and support competent institution officers and police officers with the right competences. In the coming weeks here in the Danish Parliament, it will be absolutely crucial for the defence and criminal services that Greenland should also be considered in the forthcoming settlements, because these multiannual conciliations will have to be negotiated. It is important that it can be felt in Greenland for good and bad, so that you can see the results of the final conciliation negotiations. Greenland is not represented in these negotiations, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we expect Greenland to be taken into account in the forthcoming negotiations. We believe that it would be most equal for the government to invite the members of Greenland's parliament to the conciliation which concerns Greenland, but I do not think that most people in this Chamber are now in doubt about that. While awaiting the outcome of the conciliation, we have chosen to use the time effectively to meet both the defence rapporteurs and the legal rapporteurs in this Chamber. I look forward to a busy and eventful new parliamentary year, where many decisions that are made here in Things will also be felt by the citizens at home in Greenland. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203258	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for her rapporteur's speech. Then we move on to the questions, and the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203306	Thank you. The Enhedslisten and IA have a very good cooperation here in the Danish Parliament and share many values, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good cooperation. I stand here with IA's ten goals for a secure Arctic, and one thing that both Enhedslisten and IA care about is that we need a good rescue response, not least to tackle the challenges that are both in the Danish part of the Kingdom Community and in the Greenlandic part of the Kingdom Community in relation to climate change and the challenges it presents. So we would really like to have a strengthening of the rescue team here in the Danish part of the Kingdom Community, but we have not had an invitation from the government to participate in the emergency talks that we know will take place shortly. So I'd like to ask that. IA has made an ambitious project with ten goals. Have you been invited to the negotiations, both on the emergency settlement, but also on the defence settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203411	Thank you very much. We are also pleased with the good cooperation with Enhedslisten. We have broad cooperation with all parties in the Folketing, and it is necessary to secure a majority and to ensure support for the policy we are working for. IA has not been invited to the emergency settlement negotiations. We have a number of objectives in terms of preparedness. In both 2016 and 2017, we have seen that there have been several accidents in Greenland, and that is why we also think that there is a need to look at whether capacity should be increased. Something that I think needs to be taken into account is just as much in relation to many of these social tasks that are being solved on behalf of the Greenlandic population, that is to say that the Greenlandic population is being involved. A volunteering corps would be perfectly obvious. We have chosen to make a Greenlandic proposal for it, whose name is an shortening of preparedness in Greenlandic. In the same way, I also think about the fact that you see Russian submarines around Iceland and also around Greenland, that it actually underlines the need for us to increase preparedness and to be careful in relation to what is happening in Greenland waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203530	Thank you. Then, of course, we have a common challenge by wanting to strengthen our rescue capability, but not being allowed to be involved in the negotiations. I know the SF and the Alternative have the same problem, so the call from Enhedslisten to the government here today is to invite us to these negotiations so that we can help ensure that we in Denmark have a robust rescue response to climate challenges. I think that we can also have cooperation between IA and Enhedslisten and other parties that would like to help push the government to hopefully open up the way for everyone to be allowed to participate in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203609	Thank you very much. I read an article here not long ago in the Office, emphasising that you do not actually have staff on many of these ships that the defence has around Greenland. In relation to this natural disaster, as there was in North Greenland, which certainly also has something to do with the temperature fluctuations and the climate changes that there are in Greenland, it was actually a team of conscripts who were on board and who were able to help so that the defense could contribute up there. This is a coincidence, and I think that it is necessary to look at whether there are enough staff to be able to carry out such a large area as Greenland is, but that, of course, there must also be capacity for it in the form of ships and helicopters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203657	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203700	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Very recently, I do not remember exactly when, the Greenland Economic Council with Torben M. Andersen recommended Greenland's autonomy not to set off the famous construction of three new airports. I think the total price is 3.6 billion. kr. The reason for the recommendation from the Greenland Economic Council was, among other things, that no socio-economic analysis has been carried out, and thus the decision-making basis is completely out of order. What is the rapporteur's position and comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203748	Thank you very much. After all, we take very seriously the recommendations made by the Greenland Economic Council, and I also think that what I said at the outset is an emphasis on the fact that the recommendations and concerns expressed by the Greenland Economic Council are also being listened to politically. I would say in relation to the Kalaallit Airports airport project that I personally think it is important to ensure sustainability in relation to the fact that we are not just getting the bill passed on to the next generation. When we talk about Qaqortoq airport, for example, I believe in many ways that it is a project that has been borne by some political desires, while one has to be careful, in terms of whether it should be both Nuuk and Ilulissat, and that it is a matter of consideration, i.e. whether the economy can stick to it, whether one can secure enough investment. So I think we should listen to the concerns that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203845	Yes, but does the rapporteur really do so in relation to a little wishing to implement perhaps not the whole famous project, but then at least parts of it, if it actually poses a quite high risk of ruining the economy of self-government afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203909	Thank you very much for the question. Now it's not really my decision. That would be a different situation if it were. The final decision has to be taken by the Naala Suisut. I am confident that the necessary considerations will be taken into account. I am also doing my part in my own party to ensure that you listen to those concerns, because I think it is important that you do not get the bill passed on to the next generation, but that you have control of the financial situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203936	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005203938	Qujanaq, if you can say so, for the rapporteur's speech, which, as usual, is both committed and spoken with strength. The rapporteur says that education is the key to business being able to develop in Greenland, and I really very, very much agree with that. Does the rapporteur think that Greenland's decision to have Greenlandic teachers only in Greenlandic schools is conducive to young people getting into youth education, where it is often a prerequisite that pupils can Danish, what is of course a prerequisite for them to get an education later so that they can enter the business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204023	Thank you very much. As far as I know, there is no decision that there should be only Greenlandic teachers. Priority has been given to the Greenlandic language, and much of the teaching takes place in Greenlandic. I have also said in the past that I think we should deal with a comprehensive education system. The Greenland Economic Council actually pointed out here not so long ago that there is the very strong connection that if you do not do well in the 3rd grade, you may not do very well in the 10th grade either. So it's about putting in early. Language is in many ways a key to opening some doors. It is also educational, and the relationship that exists in the Kingdom community in relation to the fact that we have free access to education in Denmark, I think is certainly something that we should pay close attention to and not necessarily take for granted, but help to safeguard. I think it is important that education levels increase. We see that we do not have enough training places for all those who really want to study. I would like the level of education to increase much faster than it does today. I think that will also help to solve some of the social challenges that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204141	I know that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is very concerned about how to strengthen justice. I also know that there is a wish list of what things need to be changed and improved in Greenland in that area, and I would like to know what priorities the rapporteur has. What's being put at the top of the list?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204208	Thank you very much. After all, we have made an overall proposal, and one of the things I would like to highlight is an educational boost. The justice system talks about equality of arms, that is, that there is equality in terms of what competences you have, so that both defenders, prosecutors and district judges have their educational competences raised. I think that's somewhere to point out one thing. In addition, there is, of course, the physical framework. I have spoken earlier about the barracks that exist in Sisimiut, which I think is inappropriate and inappropriate as a representative of the state, and I would very much like to see another solution found. Another example could be the police station in Qaanaaq, North Greenland, where a proper physical framework is needed. After all, this is also about the staff working under the government today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204306	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204307	After all, there will be negotiations for a multi-year agreement for the Department of Justice now after the autumn holiday. And I have to say that on the part of the Enhedslisten, we find it extremely strange that representatives from the Faroe Islands and Greenland are not present in the room when we have the negotiations, because, for example, they are not present in the room. in relation to Greenland is an area in which Denmark decides. Then it seems strange when we have the negotiations, when we have the discussions, that there is no such thing as that. a representative of the IA present. I think it is extremely strange, and I would really like the Prime Minister to make a statement today as to whether this is a democratic way of negotiating in the Folketing today. In this context, I would like to mention that if you read the government base, you can see that it says: "And we will work for a standard on Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark...·. Now Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen herself mentioned the physical framework, and that is also relevant to the discussions about the open institutions, i.e. the work of the Criminal Services in Greenland. How does the rapporteur think that this could be part of the negotiations we are going to have on criminal justice now after the autumn holidays?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204429	Thank you very much to the questioner. It could be quite interesting to have an analysis done, because, as the questioner mentions, both the government base and the comments on the Autonomy Act say that one has to work according to a standard that corresponds to the Danish standard. It could be interesting to do an analysis that pointed to how the standard is actually in Greenland compared to how the standard is in Denmark. The purpose of the self-government law and these remarks is, of course, that when it is to be taken home at some point, it requires it to have a proper standard. Today, all we know is that there is a huge backlog. This 40 million. kr. is a very good start, and I think it is very positive that the government has listened to us and taken it into account in their own financial legislation. But that is a start, because the need is far greater than the 40 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204525	I think it could certainly be an interesting thing to have a thorough analysis carried out so that we have a qualified basis to discuss how we ensure that there are similar standards throughout the Kingdom community in that area. What I want to follow up with here in the end is: how does the rapporteur think that we can have a democratic culture here in the Folketing, where we are more involved, for example. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, when we have negotiations which directly concern Greenland? Does the rapporteur have any thoughts on how we can secure a more democratic culture where it would be natural for representatives of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be part of the negotiations and sit in the negotiating room when we sit and discuss things that are of direct importance to, for example, the Faroe Islands? Greenlandic relationships?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204620	Thank you very much. I have thus seen a mantra in relation to the political work here in the Folketing seen with Greenlandic glasses, and that is: nothing about us without us. Well, I think we should sit down. It can be said that with regard to the Criminal Services and the police and the defence settlement, these are very specific settlements, which are about something where Greenlandic interests are also at stake, it is important that we sit with them. So there I think we are very much in agreement. I really hope so. Although there are many traditions here at Christiansborg, you also sometimes have to open up compared to perhaps making some new traditions. The government, for example, does. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we have had meetings with the Minister for Finance, and I think that is a very good thing. So I am confident, too, and I think it is in principle for Greenland, because it is something that not only benefits Greenland when I sit here, but also benefits Greenland in the future when we come to these negotiations. Politics is about producing results, and that is what happens in negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204724	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204726	Thank you very much. I am very interested to hear the rapporteur's views on defence. Most recently, we have seen a terrible tsunami hit part of East Greenland. After all, we saw the value of our joint efforts in helping the affected settlements. I really think that the value speaks for itself, including the Prime Minister's wish to help the affected settlements with a large amount of money. After all, it is a community that goes, I would say almost a thousand years back. I'd almost call it more than a community. I would call it a unit across Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not possible to see the advantage that Greenlanders taking part in the work of the defence are involved in the overall work, not just in the eyes of goose-eyes, in a Greenlandic effort in some kind of local Greenlandic unit, precisely because we have so much in common. We have the language, we have the culture. And creating a local Greenlandic unit that is not part of, let's say, the work of the Kingdom, I think will be harmful. And I think that the work we have seen here recently, where the defence from Denmark and Greenland are working together, underlines the importance of working together and that we do not create local units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005204853	Thank you very much to the questioner. The natural disaster that happened happened in North Greenland and not in East Greenland, just to comment on it. I have thanked the government several times. I've thanked the defense. Thanks to the police. Thank you to the many volunteers in Greenland who have also helped and the many Greenlandic authorities who have also made an extraordinary effort. I think that is appropriate. I would very much like to repeat that. When we talk about the Defence and the participation of Greenlanders in the Defence, I think it should be based on volunteering. In Greenland we have a lot of focus on the tasks of society, the civilian tasks, because they are the ones that take up the vast majority. That is why I think that is what should be the focus of attention. If we look at the situation today, we see that, as it were, there are already Greenlanders in the Defence, and people are very fond of them. At least that's what I hear around in the Defense, because they can contribute on an equal footing with everyone else. I just think there's something wrong with that that's all we're focused on. I also think that we should focus on something local, and we should ensure that there is a defence training in Greenland, because it will be much easier, like integrating Greenlandic society, if there are more Greenlanders in the Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205011	I would like to begin by apologizing, because I meant North Greenland, not East Greenland. It was a speech mistake. But I am incredibly happy that our defenses are doing a lot of right, a lot to recruit more in, among other things. Greenland. My point is that I think it's good if it's as part of the overall defense. It is not to say that for example. A Home Guard, which has also been talked about in Greenland, could not be a good idea. But I believe that the more you can do it as a concerted effort and have close cooperation, also in relation to languages and to cooperation between the police, between the defence, between the Home Guard and so on, the better it is for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205053	At one point I spoke to someone who works in the defence sector and who is actually talking about the fact that some other competences are needed in Greenland. After all, these are not the same competences that you need when you are at war around the world. This is something quite different that is needed. I think that many of these exercises that have been done in Greenland over the last few years have underlined the need for us to do things a little differently and that this is another focus we need to have. That is what we appeal to, that is, that you have the understanding when you think of strengthening the Defence in Greenland. Then we must also do things locally, ensure that there are local training courses and ensure that some more Greenlanders are brought in. Fortunately, there are more and more people with a civil background. It might as well be Greenlandic academics. It might as well be AFIS operators, as I see there is more interest from Arctic Commandos. I think that is a good thing. But we have to push so that more happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205149	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205151	After all, I know Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's persistent commitment to putting Greenland in any defence policy context. That was also apparent from the rapporteur's speech. However, I would like to ask a little more how Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen imagines Inuit Ataqatigiits more specific position in relation to the forthcoming defence negotiations and what it takes to put Inuit Ataqatigiit in relation to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205216	What is crucial is that we are allowed to sit. Well, right now we have the feeling of sitting outside the door, you can say, and that is not something we want. The best alternative we can see is that we talk to all the defence rapporteurs and legal rapporteurs, both those who sit with us in the negotiations, but also those who are concerned with defence and justice. So we're doing what we can. But it is absolutely crucial that you sit with them. We are also willing to take some of the heavy fights and also help to say where it might be that we need to cut back a little in order to make some new moves. So I think we are showing quite a lot of responsibility on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits when it comes to wanting to go openly into these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205259	Another theme I would like to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen about is the massive challenge facing Greenlandic society compared to only about 40%. of a youth year gets an education. What is Inuit Ataqatigiits bid for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205319	In Inuit Ataqatigiit we put in really strong action. Our party chairman has put himself on the line with responsibility for social affairs, and we think that is a very good area to help secure. I think it is important that, in cooperation with the field of education, action is taken very early, in other words even when you discover that there are some concerns. I am very much in favour of early action rather than late action, which I think has been given priority over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205350	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205352	Thank you. I would also like to take as a starting point the terrible accident that occurred in North Greenland, where some of these problems were solved quickly together and cooperation was created so that it could be cleaned up and the people who had unfortunately died were looked for. I am glad that the support that came from the southern part of the Kingdom community was accepted, so that we were just united, including in such a disaster. I just think that the Danish People's Party has once and for all raised a hand and asked: How can we contribute here from Denmark to solving some of the social problems that are still missing in Greenland? And that is not because we want to dunk the Greenlanders on top of our heads with something that has not succeeded, but now there is a report from the Nuuk area which shows that there are up to 1,000 children's cases out of a population of about 15 000. It must then scream to heaven that there is absolutely something that needs to be done here. Can't we help?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205456	Thank you very much for the question. This is really an area that I am very passionate about, and I have spent the last 10-12 years both professionally, politically and voluntarily and still make it voluntary to focus on these conditions in Greenland. In the pool negotiations last year, 10 million were set aside. kr. to strengthen conditions for children and young people in Greenland, so it is a very concrete example that although it is actually an area for which Greenland has a responsibility, we have also helped to push for this to be an area where it is not so much about the means. It's more the goal that's the important thing in this case. I have taken the initiative that the Parliament's Greenland Committee also gets an information on how these 10 million here. kr. is being implemented, so I know that the Naalakkersuisoq in this area will provide a briefing to the Danish Parliament's Greenland Committee here soon, and I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205556	Yes, because this is the very thing about it being a recurring event that every time we discuss matters in Greenland, we also have to take this very serious problem into account in the debate, whether we like it or not. It is massive if the population of around 15 000 is around 1,000 children's cases. However, this is where the resources are strongest. What is it like in those areas where the resources of the authorities may be smaller? Then you could say that 10 million. kr. is a lot of money. It may be not only the money that is the most important here, but also the fact that these poor children are being dealt with in a tangible way, who are exposed daily to both one and the other. Does the rapporteur not have any idea how we could meet in some way, so that we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205646	Now, on the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we have repeatedly spoken from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament about the Municipal Guardians, and I think it is still important because it has not been resolved yet. It is a lawless society, you might say, in many ways in some settlements, because there is no representative of the police. So it is a task that we have here in the Folketing, in other words to ensure that the police are present wherever people live. Naalakkersuisut himself pointed out that perhaps there is a need for two municipal officers to ensure that there is an interest in carrying out that task. So this is certainly an area to which we can draw attention. Something else is this alcohol law that I mentioned. Alcohol is also very much associated with many of the social challenges that exist in Greenland, so that is why things are very much connected, and it is extremely complex. If I could fix it tomorrow, I'd do it, I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205742	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205744	It's about this involving Greenland. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is once again saying that Greenland will not be involved. Yes, Greenland does, but the government negotiates with the national government, and it has been repeated many, many times. It is not the case that the four North Atlantic MPs are some with whom the government negotiates directly, that is to say they are now to be negotiated. The business is that the two governments work together and that is what you do about criminal justice, that is what you do about the police, that is what you do about defence. So the thing about constantly reminding us that Greenland is not being involved is nonsense. The point is that the two members of Greenland's parliament do not have a special position in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205830	I would say that no, we do not have a special position, and that is not what we expect. We just expect to be respected. We also expect to be heard respectfully in a quiet manner. I think there has been a positive trend. Now I was at a meeting with the Finance Minister yesterday, and I also praised the government for the fact that I think we are being heard more than we have been heard in the past. It is, of course, the case that Naala Suisut is beginning to pay attention to making clear demands. That is also what I referred to in my speech, in relation to what one would like to do in the area of justice. I think that is really, really positive, and I would like the rest of Naala Suisut to be at least as aware of it. When there is defence reconciliation, then we must also be on the ground and have clear positions on it. But yes, I think we should be heard as members of parliament on an equal footing with everyone else, so we should have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005205925	The point is, as I said, Greenland becomes It's just through the correct channels. Well, by the way, there's Bornholm. Bornholm cannot be compared with Greenland in any area of state law, but could it be imagined that our two members from Bornholm came to defence conciliations and should have a special position as regards defence? You can't imagine that or that it would be like that in the Faroe Islands. This is the business which has been agreed and in which everyone is interested. I think that the National Government in Greenland would find it strange that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, as representative of IA, should sit and negotiate defence reconciliations in Denmark, or that Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who is not a member of any party, should sit and negotiate defence reconciliations in Denmark. You just don't do that. It is not the result of any malicious will that Greenland should not now be heard. Greenland stays
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210023	I do not think that we will necessarily agree, nor do I think that, when I have 30 seconds, we will be able to reach an agreement. I still think that there is a need for new traditions when it comes to inviting people to a broad settlement. We have a knowledge which can also be important to the Folketing and which can actually help to strengthen the negotiations that need to be started in relation to the defence settlement, in relation to the criminal justice settlement. It makes really good sense that we're sitting here. So I do not buy that argument, and I think there is a need to make some new traditions here in the Folketing, so that Greenlandic MPs can also be heard more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210100	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210101	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, first of all for the rapporteur's speech and, as other authors have said this evening, also for the cooperation. The natural disaster in North Greenland has been mentioned several times, and Greenland is one of the most obvious areas in the world. You might almost say that you are on the front line of climate change. That is why my question is this: does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen agree that a responsible Greenland policy also includes a responsible climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210154	The short answer is yes. I think it is very important that we in Greenland also take co-responsibility. And we don't emit as much. We do not have an industry as large as many of the other large countries. I think it is important also for political reasons that we send a signal that we are also helping to take global co-responsibility where we are able to do so. We have some very good examples, for example. hydropower plants around Greenland. I think it would be appropriate for the Naala Suisut and Greenland to also accede to the Paris Agreement. There is, of course, a difference of opinion in the Naala Suisut, as has already been mentioned. When you sit in a coalition, there are several parties that have different opinions. I would like us from Greenland to join the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210243	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen now approached my next question, which was precisely about the Paris Agreement. So I would just like to say that I am pleased to hear, of course, that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen will continue to work on getting Greenland to accede to the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210303	Thank you very much. I also think that when we talk about climate, it is important to talk about the UN's global goals. After all, I have chosen to become involved here in the Danish Parliament in the inter-political network group that we have in working for the UN's world goals. I would also like us from Greenland to do something more. So we have among other things. I would like to point out to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210331	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for today's work and warmly welcome to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005210350	Thank you very much. I am glad to hear the Prime Minister say that things are going quite well in Denmark, because it signals satisfaction and profit to want more. In particular, I was pleased to hear that the Prime Minister is pleased with the cooperation with the North Atlantic mandates and that the differences we have in the Kingdom community are respected. During the past year, there has been a major debate about Greenland's independence, including here in the Danish Parliament. The Prime Minister has also stressed on several occasions that independence outside the Constitution will be seen as a withdrawal of the Kingdom. The Prime Minister has indicated that he will be sad when Greenland becomes independent, but at the same time he also says that he respects the Greenlanders' desire for independence. The Self-Government Act is clear and fully transparent as regards the process of an independent Greenland. Denmark and Greenland have jointly developed the Self-Government Act. It is a law of which both nations can be very proud and, above all, it is a law that is regarded as best practice worldwide in terms of how two countries can cooperate in a secession based on mutual respect and understanding. The Prime Minister says in his opening speech that he takes the debate on independence seriously. Let me say once and for all that Greenland is definitely on the road to more self-determination and independence. Inatsisartut, with broad political support, has set up a Constitutional Commission, which was based on a proposal which I presented to Mr Inatsisartut at the time, and which both then and now has great support. In the light of the analysis on the future task solution of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic, there is a need for an upgrade of preparedness and, above all, for greater involvement of Greenlandic civil society. I sense a political will in both Denmark and Greenland to extend cooperation on local involvement, involvement and training of Greenlandic citizens in defence tasks in the Arctic. The Ministry of Defence's report recommends a strengthening of the future maritime and rescue service, including: to assist the growing cruise traffic and equip us for future shipping routes in the Arctic and, above all, to equip us for the responsibilities that go with it. Soon the Folketing will have to negotiate a new defence settlement, and I think it is extremely important that the Greenlandic mandates and autonomy are heard in the points of the defence settlement that concern the Arctic. The forthcoming defence settlement is important for the entire kingdom, and that is why I think it is of great importance and quite natural that, in order to have a Greenlandic angle on what concerns our country and our everyday lives, we should be able to sit down. I sense an increasing interest from our young people in Greenland in taking an education in Defence. I have indicated to the Minister for Finance that funds should be set aside for young Greenlanders living outside Nuuk who wish to take an education in the field of defence. It is a question of the training conditions being in place. 2018 will be the year when Greenland will have its first closed prison. For decades it has been proclaimed as one of the biggest human rights problems in Denmark that Greenlanders have been sent to prison thousands of kilometres away from their homes, and in many cases they have been sent to a place where they do not even speak the language. On Herstedvester Prison's website it says that the Greenland department in Herstedvester is expected to be closed down. Some of the Greenlandic inmates have indicated that they do not want to move back to Greenland and serve in Greenland, as they have now had their fixed frames in Herstedvester for so long. I think it is important that there is a choice for the current inmates whether they want to serve in Denmark or serve in Greenland. It is also important that the inmates who choose to continue serving in Denmark continue to be treated as Greenlandic inmates, as they become today, where they have the right to Greenlandic food, visiting trips and Greenlandic services. I am very pleased that 40 million will be set aside. kr. over four years to strengthen the judicial area in Greenland. How these funds are to be distributed, I do not know quite yet, but I hope, of course, that the government will work closely with the responsible Naalakkersuisoq, so that improvements in the area of justice are best adapted to Greenland's situation. Another neglected area is the police in Greenland. Greenlandic police officers are paid less than their Danish colleagues, despite the same training and the same employer. This is not an appropriate treatment by the Ministry of Justice and the National Police. A UK with respect for its citizens does not pay unequal wages for the same work. It's not okay. The Greenlandic mandates have worked for several parliamentary periods to establish a Greenlandic church council in Denmark. I have personally held meetings with successive church ministers to follow up on the work. The church ministers have each time supported a Greenlandic church council and have informed me that this is a priority area. I hope it will be in this parliamentary year that our many Greenlandic citizens in Denmark get the promised improvements with the establishment of a Greenlandic church council in Denmark and the appointment of an extra Greenlandic priest. Some 18,000 Greenlandic citizens in Denmark are now served by just one Greenlandic priest. Soulsorg is important in a Christian society, and it is time that the Danish National Church could also accommodate the Greenlandic language, just as the National Church in Greenland can accommodate Danish-speaking priests. With their 1973 defence agreement, Denmark has continued to have a legal and moral obligation towards Greenland. This is true in relation to the lost service contract, cleaning up old military bases and the Americans' current activities at Thulebasen. Recently, it has emerged that the Americans are engaged in a significant upgrade of Thuleradar to a value of more than 250 million. kr. The Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut, has not been informed, as Denmark's obligations under the Igaliku Agreement otherwise indicate. The cooperation between Greenland and Denmark must be based on trust and community. It is important to ensure that the mutual respect and cooperation between Greenland, Denmark and the United States continue in a way that makes us all happy and so that we all get something out of it. In Greenland there is a legitimate expectation that we should be compensated for making our country available for the military activities of the Americans. Until now, we have been spared acts of war in connection with the presence of the United States, but not in relation to forced relocations, nuclear accidents or pollution of our precious nature. It should be appropriate to work for a new agreement between Greenland, Denmark and the United States as three equal partners, all of which win something on the cooperation. The Government of Greenland, Naalaksuisut, has earlier this year appealed to the Danish Government for three different UN bodies investigating human rights violations. In the complaints Denmark is accused of failing its responsibility for cleaning up after the US military installations in Greenland and of not ensuring Greenland a fair economic return from Thulebasen. The complaints refer, inter alia, to: to the UN Declaration on the Rights of indigenous peoples and the ILO Convention on indigenous peoples in independent states. Despite the fact that Naala Suisut chose to withdraw the complaint, it is now that the case is still going on and must be examined in depth. I think it is sad that it should come so far in understanding the many political frustrations between Denmark and Greenland about the presence of Americans in Greenland. The perception among the citizens of Greenland is that the Greenlandic people pay for Denmark and the friendship of the United States in that area. I try to look with optimism at relations between Greenland and Denmark. A dialogue has been initiated between Nuuk and Copenhagen with regard to the military pollution and remains of the Americans. Additional funds have been allocated to the area of justice in Greenland and socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. It is a step in the right direction, and it gives me the hope of a better everyday life for many of the Kingdom's citizens, including those from Greenland. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211317	Thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Then we move on to the questions, and the first is from Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211329	Thank you. I just want to be brief. I have never seen Greenland ever say thank you to the United States because they have been protected throughout the years they have been there. Let it go. That is not why I am speaking. I would like to hear something about the independence constitutional commission which is in the process of extensive work. What is surprising is that part of the mandate is not to clarify Greenland's economy after independence. In fact, not a single figure has been provided for what it actually takes to be an independent country. I myself have applied for some of the figures from the Danish Ministry of Finance, which has helped me to compile some figures as to what it would be like if Greenland had to settle it all. We're talking about between 6 billion and a punch on the bag. kr. and 7 billion. kr. per years to ensure independence. And that is without any kind of block grants. Can it not surprise Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who is not part of this Constitutional Commission, that that part of it is not at all involved in the work being done?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211435	First of all, we are very pleased that the presence of the Americans in Greenland contributes to world peace. In this regard, we have no doubt that this helps to spare us too much badness. Having said that, however, I still think that Denmark and Greenland and the United States have an obligation under the Igaliku agreement to ensure that there is transparency as regards their activities in Greenland, which we are calling for today. As far as the work of the Constitutional Commission is concerned, I do not regard it as the final work on how Greenland will become independent in the future. I consider it part of the task to clarify some guidelines for the future, i.e. how Greenland's path to independence will be. The constitutional work will include a draft constitution within the Kingdom's own constitution, as agreed between Greenland and Denmark internally. I think that is the right direction. I think that is the first step in the right direction. But I also certainly believe that it is not a job that I consider to be the final one. After the first step, you take the next step.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211546	You may think so, but I personally believe that the economy is very important, i.e. whether a country has enough sustainability to exist even without block grants, which currently covers 55-56 per cent. of the whole of the Greenland budget. I think it is quite irresponsible not to take it as the very first step in trying to find out how to actually live. There are just the figures we have obtained from the Ministry of Finance, which Mrs Aleqa Hammond can find on the Danish Parliament's website. It is a matter of thinking, generously said, that there are 30,000 people in Greenland who pay to the national treasury, and I do not think that there is • Each of these taxpayers, in addition to the current tax payment, must pay about 250,000 DKK. A year, that is, beyond the tax they pay now. It is so astronomical that it seems quite irresponsible that it is precisely not the centre of the process of trying to create an independent state. I don't think it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211646	Now we have a slightly different view of how Greenland should be in the future, i.e. whether it should be independent or not. But it's okay, too. Greenland considers it extremely important that our economy should be stronger. I have no doubt that everyone wants that. That is why we also think it is incredibly important that we engage in our youth and our children so that everyone gets an education in the future and so that everyone gets the best possible support to be able to cope and be self-supporting in a society. Our economic zone, the 200 mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile mile. But I see greater profits in Greenland waters in the future. I also see greater profits in Greenlandic tourism in the future. I also see a financial gain in Greenland's having its raw materials legislation removed. And I also believe that Greenland's way forward to more self-sufficiency will help to strengthen our economy. The way it is today is 75%. of our electricity consumption based on hydropower, and I also believe that in many ways it has helped to strengthen our economy and free us from oil, which we must sail up every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211757	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211801	Thank you very much. A key point that I feel the rapporteur did not quite mention is the possibility for Greenlanders to interact with the outside world. One thing I do not understand is why you do not choose to give priority to the Danish language, instead of what I see as a form of downgrading. When it comes to access to high schools when it comes to access to universities, the Danish language is a prerequisite and, if you are going to take it a step further, also access to Europe through Denmark. I feel that the policy you run in Greenland is unfortunately hampering the possibility of very, very many skilled, competent young Greenlanders who would like to continue in high school who would like to go to university so that they do not have the same opportunities in the world. Can the rapporteur give a little thought to what will be done by Greenland in order to give priority to the Danish language and thus to the possibility of further training?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005211901	Now we don't teach Danish as the main language in Greenland, because the main language in Greenland is Greenlandic, and the only official language in Greenland is Greenlandic. The second language is Danish, and we are then taught. I was taught Danish from first grade. Later, it has been introduced that one first teaches Danish from the 4th grade, depending on what one wants to prioritize. Having said that, we also have a third language, which is English, and all three languages are compulsory languages to be learned in Greenlandic society. There is teaching in Greenlandic, Danish and English, and you do not teach less hours in Danish today than you did earlier. But we are discussing whether Danish should fill in the future, whether it should be at the same level as English, or whether Danish should be at a lower level than English, because we are also thinking of the international arena, and that we want our young people to train, not only within the kingdom's framework, but also that they have the opportunity to train in English in the cooperation other countries that we have. I think it is a natural step towards a globalised world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212009	Thank you very much. I understand perfectly well that you want to include English in part of the programme, but frankly, Greenland is part of Denmark's Kingdom Community. The most natural thing for a young Greenlandic man or woman who goes to high school, who goes to university, is to go further in the Danish system. Of course English is important, but frankly, how many Greenlanders go on in a British or American system? I don't think that's very many. I would be interested to hear the rapporteur's view on this. Isn't it natural, since we have a thousand-year-old community, that young Greenlanders learn Danish so they can go to high school so they can go to university?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212055	Now we do not have a thousand-year-old community; we have a 300-year-old community between Denmark and Greenland. The fact is that we have high schools in Greenland, where we take our upper secondary education. We also have a university in Greenland that absorbs more and more students every eternal single year. Very often, although they take their education at the University of Greenland, it is not necessarily the Danish language alone which is the most important. They must be able to read aloud in English, and the educational directions that you cannot take in Greenland are taken in Denmark or in the Nordic countries. I do not think in any way that they come and say that their Danish education has been too poor for them to enter educational establishments. I have not heard that to the extent that the questioner refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212149	Sir. Nikolai Amstrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212153	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now I referred earlier to Greenland as being in the front line of climate change, but it is also in the front line in relation to the deterioration of the marine environment, which affects both fishing and tourism. So I would like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond if she also agrees that a proper and responsible Greenland policy includes a proper and responsible climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212235	Yes, I am, and so is Greenland. Greenland will and will also take a global responsibility to ensure that the climate change we are experiencing today is combated. Greenland has initiated the vast transformation of its energy sector from oil-based energy supply to hydropower. This has meant that Greenland today has clean energy in 75%. of our electricity consumption in the entire Greenlandic community. I think that is the right direction to take in a responsible climate policy. Having said that, Greenland took an active part in the Paris Agreement, and it was also to be able to get an angle on it from an original people's point of view. For indigenous peoples must take as much responsibility for combating pollution and climate change in the world as any other major state. And I also believe that Greenland has played a very important role there. But no matter what, Greenland takes an active part in it, as I said, and we feel climate change very closely. We also see this in our economy, where the ice lays down later than usual and disappears earlier than usual, and this has, of course, had consequences for the income of the prisoners, which is based on their movements on the ice and the sea, and it also affects the national economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212413	Thank you. In this context, I would also like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond something, and that is whether the climate and environmental consequences of the Danish policy are in any way of concern to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212433	It would be easy to say that we are so far ahead of Denmark in relation to green energy. But it is also because our geography is very different from that of Denmark, and because our possibilities are very different in Greenland. But I think that Denmark is heading in the right direction, where you want to focus on alternative energy and move away from fossil fuels in the future. It also requires that you can see the economic scam of being a citizen, that is to say, a citizen, and I also believe that information is very, very important to get everyone involved, so that it is not only at political level but also a desire in society. It is much greater than the politicians' own will to transform into a green society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212523	Thank you very much to Mrs Aleqa Hammond for today's work. Now I see that the silver buttons in the vest are polished and the hair is frissed, so I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mr. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi, Faroe Islands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005212543	Thank you, sir. President. The parliament's Nestor, Bertel Haarder, opened on Tuesday's parliamentary year with the words that popular rule and freedom are not a matter of course, and therefore the opening of the parliamentary year is a celebration day. The Prime Minister later stated in his opening speech that freedom and equality are common European values. These statements are in stark contrast to my experiences in Catalonia on Sunday, experiences that burned deep into my soul and mind. The popular and peaceful assembly around the polling stations made a great impression on the day before the referendum. It was neither populist nor sectarian, but gave the impression of a deep desire to be allowed to express democratically the people's position on the right to self-determination of Catalonia: the right to vote and the right to vote. The Catalans knew that the government of Madrid had sent 10,000 police officers from Guardia Civil to Catalonia to prevent the elections. Yet they gathered around the polling stations because they wanted to be heard and they wanted to vote. We're gonna vote. We're gonna vote. We're gonna vote. We're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, The Catalans behaved with dignity and defended their democratic rights with the mere personal presence, words and ballot papers. The contrast was therefore huge when black-clothed, armed policemen behind shields and hidden faces marched into the polling stations in military formations and without warning all who stood between them and the ballot boxes. Brutally, the young and old men cut down with the stabs, dragged young women by their hair, fought with grandmothers, kicked and trampled on defenseless citizens before they robbed the ballot papers and closed the polls. I myself was present in Sant Joan, where Guardia Civil beat a man in the '70s to blood. He stood in the queue near the entrance to the polling station and just wanted to use his democratic right to vote. He didn't come to that Sunday in Sant Joan. I am puzzled by the self-control of the Catalans. They did not counterattack, they did not fight, but simply tried with words and their defenseless bodies to lie between the attacking police forces and the ballot papers. Some 900 people were injured, 400 polling stations closed, and an unknown number of votes robbed. That same evening, the Spanish head of government, Rajoy, thanked the police forces for their exemplary efforts, and the king was unable to gather the nation by exhorting for temper and dialogue. I do not understand that Western democratic countries leading the European Union have been so silent about this brutal deprivation of freedom. I am well aware that there are more views and nuances on the conflict in Catalonia, but the Western democracies, who are happy to deal with self-determination, democracy and human rights elsewhere on the globe, must also deal with breaches of fundamental democratic rights among their closest alliance partners. When the Prime Minister in his speech expressed pride that Denmark is fighting for the women of the world, I remembered one of the many calls I have received from Catalonia since Sunday. Gloria from Barcelona wrote: "I am not a politician, a journalist or a lawyer. Just an ordinary woman, mother, wife and daughter who loves my country and respects other countries and political positions as long as they are based on a democratic and humanitarian idea. In Madrid, Catalonia, as part of Spain, is considered to be part of one country as brothers and sisters. But since Sunday I have been asking myself: Would a brother ever treat his siblings as the Spanish police treated the Catalan citizens who only wanted to choose? I'm just asking you to tell me what you experienced and to encourage governments, authorities and organizations to condemn the Spanish state's abuse. Please HELP US!.., ends Gloria's letter. I hereby forward her request to the Government and the Danish Parliament. It is only two years since the Danish Parliament said that the question of the independence of Catalonia is a matter of peaceful and democratic dialogue between Catalonia and the Spanish Government in Madrid. I hope that the current Parliament is brave enough to condemn brutal violence against citizens who want to influence their own future through democratic referendums and that the government will make an active effort to bring about mediation in favour of peaceful and democratic dialogue between the parties. There are ways to approach a sensible and respectful process. The referendum in Scotland was a good example. And I am also confident that our own approach to a referendum on a Faroese constitution will serve as a good example to others. The draft Constitution was presented in the Latting the other day and will be discussed during the autumn. Once the Latting has taken a decision, it must be sent to a referendum, which will be held six months later, so that the draft Constitution can be the subject of a public debate. The proposal is an identity document which relates to the Faroe Islands as a nation and the Faroe Islands as a people. It contains provisions on citizens' rights and obligations, on the mandate that citizens give to elected representatives and on how we organise our democratic institutions. The Constitution also states that the Faroese people have the highest authority and need to be asked if the Faroe Islands are to grant rights when joining communities or wish to withdraw from, for example, the Faroe Islands. the Kingdom and establish an independent state. That is how we want to assert both the right of external self-determination and the right of internal self-determination. The Constitution does not contain a roadmap for autonomy, but provides for the mandate to be sought from the Faroese electorate in order to implement such a decision. The Constitution is not just about self-esteem and national pride. It is also a natural part of the development of Faroese society, which has developed a strong autonomy based on cultural values, solid export-oriented economy, takeover of jurisdictional areas, development of competences and good infrastructure. The Faroese welfare is financed largely from its own resources, and the block support from Denmark amounts to less than 8%. of public revenue. Faroese salmon farming has a reputation for supplying the world's best salmon, and we are among the world's five largest salmon producers. The Faroe Islands are among the Large Ocean States because our sea area is large: Overall, we are among the 25 largest fishing nations in the world, but measured per capita we are in top three. Globalisation has changed enormously on the conditions of competition for virtually all industries and all countries. And this also applies to Denmark and the Faroe Islands. We compete on the loose every day, every hour and every minute for the favor of buyers in Asia, in America, in Europe, yes, all over the world. And we are constantly negotiating access to resources and markets. It takes talent, fitness and fighting spirit to keep me to sports terminology and a recognition that we can only cope with the competition if we are among the very best. There is no room for serial teams in global competition. We must and must therefore adapt to the challenges we face today and tomorrow, so that we can continue to develop and maintain the Faroese welfare. The Prime Minister said that the EU is the crucial platform for defending Danish interests in the world. I respect that, but the EU and the Faroe Islands do not always have the same interests. This is precisely why conflicts of interest may arise between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, as we saw in the mackerel dispute. Unfortunately, I am also currently seeing the outlines of a new conflict emerging because the European Union will extend the mandate of the International Whaling Commission to include small whales. This must not happen because the IWC is controlled by an animal protection lobby. We have excellent cooperation in North Atlantic NAMMCO, which continuously follows on from whether the catch of small whales is sustainable. The time has long been ripe to re-evaluate the division of competences between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, so we can concentrate on the development of a robust society instead of using the energy of subtle state-law discussions, which are based on a distant Danish past. What we need is a modern and future-oriented model of cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, which gives us a great deal of freedom of movement for foreign and trade policy. And with greater sovereign competences, the Faroe Islands are more prepared for the challenges of the future. The fact that it then costs a dismantling of block support over time and the two parliamentary seats is an affordable price for a free association model. Finally, I would like to say that I am grateful that we can discuss these matters democratically and that the government has been constructive in its attitude to the Faroese draft Constitution. It can actually serve as a role model for Rajoy and the Spanish Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213652	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213704	Thanks for the speech. I have just visited the Faroe Islands and have been around to see and meet people from different municipalities. It's going really well in the Faroe Islands right now. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on what are actually the biggest challenges in the Faroe Islands now that things are going so well in business.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213732	That was a good question. Isn't that how you have to answer? I believe that our main challenge at the moment is that things are going so well that we must be careful that we do not spend too much money and that we do not have excessive costs which will cause us greater problems when we see at some point that the economy is turning the other way, at least as far as fish prices are concerned. It may be because there are fewer fish and things like that. Because we know that we have a cyclical economy. At the moment, all arrows turn the same way. There are high prices for salmon. There is no major disease. There are large quantities of pelagic fish, and there is also a nice price for it. And the price of oil on which we are relatively dependent is quite low. So we can only say that the arrows are pointing in the right direction. But we can't count on them to do it all the time. That is why we must also ensure that we consolidate ourselves to cope with it when the waves go the other way. So far, we do, because in the new draft budget, which has a very substantial surplus of just under 400 million, we are doing so. kr. or so, two thirds of the profits are intended to be used for the down payment of debts and savings, if I can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213849	One of the things I particularly noticed was all the construction projects that are under way. Now I know that when you are shown around by a municipality and the people of the municipality, they really want to show what they are very proud of. I can understand that very well. But is it the many constructions, for example. tunnel constructions, which the rapporteur believes can heat up the economy in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005213921	Of course, building activity is one of the things that one can try to steer in the opposite direction of the cyclical economy. But it is not always easy to keep track of, because public buildings are planned several years in advance, and we do not really know how things are going to go in two years' time as regards mackerel or salmon farming or whatever. Sometimes we get caught up in the fact that all the business cycles turn the same way. We have a great approach to people in the Faroe Islands. The population has risen and is now over 50,000. It also requires that we build more homes for all the people who come home to the Faroe Islands to live. We'll have to build them. We also need institutions to be provided with the facilities needed, that is to say hospitals, schools and kindergartens, and what do I know? We have to make sure these things are as they should be. When it comes to tunnels and infrastructure, I can just say that a large part of the reason why things are also going well in the Faroe Islands is that we have a very efficient infrastructure that works very well. Because we've invested in that infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214025	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214036	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I will be one of those who, personally, will be quite sorry if Mr. Magni Arge stops and gives up his place here in the Folketing. 'Cause that's one of them. It's a pleasure to see you, sir. Magni Arge today as well as setting a foreign policy agenda and bringing up the violent situation we see in Catalonia in this opening debate. I agree with the rapporteur that it is totally unacceptable to see this violence against peaceful voters, as we have seen from the Spanish police, against ordinary people who tried to vote in Catalonia, as the rapporteur also described. I have noticed that the Slovenian and Belgian Prime Ministers have been condemning the violence by the Spanish police against the peaceful electorate, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees that it would be an obvious occasion here today for our Prime Minister to follow suit and do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214135	I don't know if I should push the Prime Minister into a corner in this case. But I can at least say that the reason why I am taking this up is not just that I personally witnessed what happened and that I have received a thousand calls from the people of Catalonia because they knew that I was part of this team of election observers who were down there, but it is simply because I think it is a matter for all democratic countries to safeguard the right of self-determination and democratic freedom of expression and the democratic right to choose to express their opinion. We cannot accept that it is being defeated by brutal and brutal violence, as happened down in Catalonia. Well, it was a crazy experience. I did not think that it would be possible for me to experience it in a Western European country. I cannot believe that there has been no much stronger response to this long ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214237	I agree very much. I have to say that the important thing is to avoid further escalation of the current situation. This question of the independence of Catalonia cannot be resolved by violence. It would be awful if you tried to do that, and frankly, it could explode. So what is crucial is that pressure is put on and that Denmark can contribute, I am thinking of the Spanish Government in order to initiate a peaceful dialogue and stop trying to resolve the conflict with violence. And of course, as parties, our government and the Prime Minister as Prime Minister, we can call for this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214321	I totally agree. I absolutely believe that the Heads of Government in the EU countries should talk to Rajoy about how to get down from this conflict ladder that has been raised. Because you're at a frame a point, a point of no return, and then we're sitting with a powder keg down in Spain, and nobody has an interest in that. So you have to figure out how to get down from that ladder again and start talking and figure out how to get out of it. I am not going to make myself aware of whether only the Spaniards have created this problem and whether the Catalans do not have their share of it, but what is important is that we get a dialogue going and that we get into a peaceful process so that we create a democratic and humane situation instead of escalating to pure violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214408	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, who is also from the Faroe Islands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005214417	Thank you, sir. President. I am going to revolve around the same themes as my colleagues. On the first page of the story of a reported murder by Gabriel García Márquez, he does not leave the reader in doubt about what is going to happen on the last page: The main character is being killed. It is not just the reader who knows it throughout the book, all the key people in the novel know it too. No one wants it, but no one intervenes. It is as if fate is a train running from point A to point B, where B lies beyond the abyss. Because of strong social rules, pride, vanity, nobody stops the train even if they can. One incident breeds the other as if it were the course of nature. How often does this happen in life in small and large? How often does everyday life feel like a manuscript written in advance? How often do we see one wrong act giving rise to the next one and the next one until things go wrong? The events in Catalonia last Sunday were the story of announcing murder. From the first page of the book we are in 2010, when the Spanish Supreme Court chose to suspend the autonomy achieved by the Catalans through the 2005 Constitution. What happened last Sunday was the only possible consequence of what happened in 2010. Every day for seven years, everyone has known. Many have been able to do something about it, but no one has done anything. The train was allowed to ride across the abyss. The logic of the political game is that the Spanish nationalists become stronger when they take a hard stand against the Catalan nationalists. The Catalan nationalists are getting stronger when they refuse to bow down to the central power in Madrid. For them, the conflict has meant that support for Catalan secession after 7 years, that is, since the first page of the book, has gone from 10 to over 40 per cent. and after Sundays probably far more than that. It is, of course, about the economy and political power, but it is increasingly about identity policy, one nationalism against the other, one flag against the other. When a conflict gets that character, we know from history that it is fatal, not least within Catalonia between the Spanish-minded and Catalan-minded. Unfortunately, Sunday's events were hardly the last page of this book, for it is getting worse. But why was the first page written? It was because the Spanish Government basically misunderstood what the cohesion of a democratic state consists of. A common definition of a state is that the state has the monopoly of violence in a society. That is correct, but it is not enough. In a democracy, the state must also have legitimacy. Although the Spanish State has the monopoly of violence in Catalonia, as we saw on Sunday, it does not have legitimacy and therefore the cohesion is removed and therefore the monopoly of violence is perceived as illegitimate. When Guardia Civil beat Catalan voters, they politically beat the legitimacy of the Spanish state in Catalonia to death at least in the eyes of many. In Madrid, reference is made to the Constitution and, of course, it gives legality, but it does not in itself give legitimacy. In a state where there is only one nation, conditions are simple, the legitimacy of the monopoly of violence comes almost by itself, because the cohesion of society is so strong. In states like the Spanish, where there are more nations, it is more complicated. There the central power must always keep in mind that everyone must feel the state as its state. Denmark is also a state with several nations, and therefore we can learn from the predictable history that is now taking place on the Iberian Peninsula. Denmark has a constitution, and of course its legality also applies in the Faroe Islands, but its legitimacy is not so strong, because it has never been adopted by the Faroese people. That is why it would be the story of an announced conflict if the state had vigorously and cashly claimed legality. You haven't done that. The Faroe Islands have been allowed to develop according to their own wishes, according to their own needs, with their own authorities, laws, economics, etc. It is also a predictable story and it ends up in the very good relationship that we have today. Just like the Catalans, many forefathers want a constitution of their own. There is currently a very healthy discussion about its content, about the political system, about rights, about values, etc. The Copenhagen Government has had proposals for consultation, and it has given up its thumbs. If, as in Madrid, the Danish Government had practiced legality, many reasons could easily have been found for turning its thumbs down. That has not been done, and thank you for it, and thank you to the Prime Minister for what he said on this matter on Tuesday. I do not know how this is going to work, but if a constitution is adopted in the Faroe Islands that is within the broad framework of the Kingdom Community, not only democracy in the Faroe Islands will be strengthened, then the legitimacy of the Kingdom will also be strengthened, because the more you can be yourself within the framework, the stronger the framework will be. The stronger the Faroe Islands become, the more equal and the stronger will be the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. Sometimes, as I say, I feel the same things over and over again, which is why I thought that after the debate here yesterday, many people went from hearing the Prime Minister of the Danish Parliament over to the Park to hear Mick Jagger. In 1975, when Mick Jagger was 32, he said: I'd rather be dead than still sing Satisfaction when I'm 45. He was getting tired of the ten-year-old song. Now Jagger's 74 years old, and what did it sound like in the park the day before yesterday? I can't get no satisfaction. I come to think of it because when I have heard the debate today, it is the same thing we say over and over again. Like in the Park, where Mick Jagger says the same thing, speakers come up on the platform and say the same things in different variants of the same speech over and over again. That's the way life repeats on repetition. As I said earlier, I also have what I have just said in other variants. But it is because it is important, and over and over again we have to write the right things on the pages of history books. It's not gonna be an exciting thriller, but it's gonna be a good reality. We can avoid writing a story about an announced murder, we can write the first page of our book again and again every day. Finally: Relations in the Kingdom Community are not only between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, it is also between Denmark and Greenland, and the Folketing is the parliament in the kingdom where all three countries are represented. From all three sides, we have been working for the last year to remove the border barriers that exist in the Commonwealth, which is why I was a little surprised when I read in Sermitsiaq the day before yesterday that Greenland's Minister for Fisheries is on the way with an announcement saying that from 2020 it will have to be 90%. of all officers on Greenlandic ships have lived in Greenland for 2 years. This, of course, is going to hit the forefathers, who are currently occupying a great many of those posts. Instead of removing the border barriers in the Kingdom Community, a berlin wall will be put down between the Greenlandic and Faroese labour markets, between Greenlandic shipping companies and Faroese officers. This is not, of course, a matter for the Folketing, but since the Folketing is the parliament where everyone is present and where Greenland has repeatedly said that people want to remove the barriers to the border in the Kingdom, I would like to make an urgent plea from this point of view to the Home Rule Government of Greenland: be mindful of this matter! They pay taxes in Greenland, they bring expertise to Greenland, they have been good for Greenland, they care about Greenland, they do not exclude anyone, which can be seen on the increasing number of Greenlandic officers on the ships. So in conclusion, I would like to say that I hope that this matter will be resolved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215433	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There is one question from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215437	Thank you. I'm very much in agreement with Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale in this description of the situation in Spain and Catalonia. It's been a train you've been able to see for many years was about to crash. I would say that it is often the case, in this kind of conflict, that one has a feeling that we are lagging behind and are trying to do some fire-fighting and have not seen anything come at all. But the odd or curious thing in this case is that the Danish Parliament has had a great deal of diligence. In other words, the Danish Parliament and the Parliament of the Kingdom were the first parliament in Europe to discuss the matter, i.e. the question of the independence of Catalonia. And we called for a peaceful and democratic dialogue between the Catalan and Spanish Governments back in May 2012. I know, sir. Sjúrður Skaale with you and Mr. Christian Juhl was the one who took the initiative in that debate. I just want to hear something from the rapporteur. After all, there is a real need for action. What does the rapporteur think is important to do right now in order to stop the escalation of conflict which is escalating wildly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215553	It is that the Spanish Head of Government picks up his phone and says: let us talk. It is said that a Constitution was adopted for Catalonia in 2005, which was adopted by the Catalan Parliament, by the Spanish Parliament and by the people of Catalonia. Let us return to it and not pursue legality. Let us strengthen legitimacy in Spain.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215619	I very much agree, and I think, in fact, that when looking at Europe, this issue of national minorities should not be underestimated at all. If it is not dealt with democratically and peacefully through dialogue, then it can be a powder keg in many places, not only in Spain, but also in many other places in Europe. So I fully agree that there is a need for action. And it is actually just that we really need an active Danish foreign policy that follows the decision that has already been taken here in the Danish Parliament back in time, on 20 May 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215655	That is absolutely correct. A national minority that does not feel legitimate is an explosive cocktail in a state. Stefan Zweig, who experienced two world wars, says he hates extremism; he hates the Communists, and he hates the fascists, but most of all, he says, he hates nationalism. It's the plague. It is the one who has crushed Europe twice. We must therefore be careful about this, and we do not do so in Spain these days.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215722	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215727	Thank you for a very good speech. I have just one question for the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur have any recommendations to the Danish Government that could strengthen legitimacy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215743	I actually thought I said that in the speech. I think that when it comes to giving space and making the kingdom community flexible, that is to say to allow the Faroe Islands to cultivate and pursue their own interests and needs and strengthen themselves as a community, then the legitimacy of the kingdom community is strengthened. That is why I am so pleased that the Prime Minister said yesterday that he understands, of course, that in the Faroe Islands, which is of course another country, another society and has a different culture and a different background, you need to have a constitution that reflects the values you have. When it is accommodated within the Kingdom community, of course, the Kingdom community is strengthened. Then the legitimacy of the Kingdom community will be strengthened, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215825	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale for today's efforts. Then we've come to the raisin in the sausage end. After all, Denmark's Prime Minister has the right to serve on Tuesdays to launch a debate. We are then debating all day today and we have reached where the Prime Minister again has the right to try to conclude today's debate. So I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005215848	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate that has lasted half a day. I have no great ambition to prolong it, at least not unnecessarily, but now we have to see. I think it has been a good debate held in a good tone and, as such, quite peaceful. Fortunately, we agree on a great deal, although it may not always sound like that, but today it has actually sounded that way on long distances, and it is perhaps very natural, because since we took office, the government has concluded 46 political agreements, and the 41 have been made by a broad majority across the middle. So we agree on a lot, but it wasn't about more than that and not all of it. It would not be healthy either, because opinions must be broken. There must be competition and not just a balance to reverse the game of words used by the Alternative's rapporteur. But there must be mutual respect. We must maintain that balance when we are in competition for our positions. I think we have shown that in this Chamber today too, and I am delighted to see that, for example. Mr. On Tuesday Uffe Elbæk was pleased that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard had been re-elected as President of the Danish Parliament. I am also pleased because there are hardly two who disagree more with Danish politics than Mr. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. It's supposed to be sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Morten Østergaard. But here too there is some new balance, because I noted that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on Tuesday after my opening statement said, and I quote: "There were many good things in the speech that I could have put myself. Well, thank you for that. And Mr. Morten Østergaard commented on the same speech and he said, and I quote: "Intentions in the opening speech ring well in my ears. Well, thank you for that. Even sir. Karsten Hønge stretched to the limit to find something positive and praised my tie. Thank you. I put on another one today, and then we'll see. We can't agree every time. Last but not least, I would also like to reiterate my thanks from Tuesday to the Bureau for this magnificently fine, modernised Parliamentary Hall. Then I'm not talking about the rooms in the back where you can't hear what you're thinking. But the hall here is beautiful. It is almost tempting to quote former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter: that is a nice framework. But I also like the content, because things are going well in Denmark. One is tempted to say, to quote the same former Prime Minister: it is going extremely well. But I'll just say that things are going pretty well. More than 100,000 private jobs have been created since the parliamentary elections. We have the lowest number on public support for 10 years. The number of recipients of cash benefits has fallen by just over 13,000 in one year. The foreign debt has turned into a foreign asset, and my last announcement also tells me that the national team is ahead in Montenegro. I am not going to claim that this is the result of the government's sports policy, but I am just delighted about it. Then, of course, if you want to turn against those predecessors, speaking of the five prime ministers, you can ask with another predecessor: can we please do it a little better? To this is the answer: We cannot do much better. However, this requires that we maintain a balance in our economy, where we find room for more public investment, even if it is not the answer to everything, but because it is part of the answer; where we find space for greater public consumption, because it is part of the answer, but not the whole answer; and where we find room for tax relief not because it is the whole answer, but it is part of the answer. No, I would say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. I am not insisting that the government's proposals express the perfect balance. I haven't used that word. The government's proposal expresses the balance that we think is right, and one can influence it if one wants to, because it is just my starting point that it must be a balance where we at the same time take into account all considerations. For we must lift public investment up to 2025 if we are to meet the legitimate ambitions that are around our society, about new infrastructure facilities, whether physical or digital. And we have to come up with something that will enable us to reach out to an industry that will generate more wealth in the coming years, and to our entrepreneurs, all those with the good ideas that will make the ideas blossom. And we also owe it to the heroes of everyday life whom Enhedslisten's rapporteur referred to them as, and who have endured the crisis, to give something back. And I have to say that I find it very, very difficult to understand that Enhedslisten can stand up here and say that we have to find tax money to give a raise to the public employees, but it is a mortal sin to let the same people pay a little less in taxes, because it obviously costs us a revenue which the rapporteur would rather have spent on something else. In a situation where the recovery is there and we must ensure that it gets flight length, it is also a question of securing a supply of labour. And that is why sensible and balanced tax cuts targeted at people in the labour market are wise in that situation. That is fair compared to the people who have had to cope with many reforms. I have never claimed that I have gone through a reform process, but someone before me did, and there have been many reforms. It is fair to give something back, and it is also in the interests of all of us, because it gives more hands on the labour market. So I'm not insisting on having invented any perfect balance, but I'm gonna be quite insistent that in the autumn we have to make agreements that ensure that on all these dimensions we move in the right direction. We must, because things are going well in Denmark, and it must continue to do so, and when things are going well in Denmark, it must also go well throughout Denmark; also in all the places that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl broke out in song about. I would like to thank you for that, and I was wondering if I should sing too. I could, for example. have chosen to sing city songs from all the cities that have been given new jobs as part of the government's historic relocation plan, but it would be a hugely long potpourri, and we would never come home. So I refrain from it and will just confine myself to mentioning the dry figures, namely that 3,900 state jobs have come out of the capital and into the rest of the country. 2,500 have already moved, which corresponds to more than 90 jobs each month since the formation of the government in 2015. I have looked at the figures a little bit, and when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was in government, a little one way and a little the other way, and this gave a net move of nine state jobs into the capital, i.e. a job every six months into the capital. And now Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that we must have a stop to centralisation. I just think it should stand by itself. We have discussed a lot of things today, including I had almost said, unfortunately, integration and parallel societies. Unfortunately, I am saying because we are discussing a problem that has not yet been resolved, which is why it is unfortunately. After all, this is a problem which should ideally have been solved many years ago, but which has instead just grown bigger and bigger and basically has its roots in the fact that many people have come to Denmark who do not want our country and our values. That is why it is vital to control the influx. Because the number means something. That's what we're about to get. The number of asylum seekers has improved, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its solid cooperation in making necessary efforts to tighten up the immigration policy, which, together with a joint effort in the European Union, which has taken a little longer to get the race going, has made the number of asylum seekers significantly lower, so that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers since 2008. That is good, because then the problems will not grow further, but we need to close the gaps in the Danish map, where too many people live without contact with the rest of society or even work against it, and that requires a joint effort. But then I would like to add that it also requires that we talk about this in a precise and nuanced way, so that we get our policy and our attention and our criticism of those who are the problem and not a lot of others. When I said on Tuesday that integration is not about skin color, not about religion, but it is about wanting Denmark to, I think everyone really knows what I meant, also in this Chamber. That is why I have to say that it has been such a rather bizarre experience for me to see how the debate has then unfolded subsequently led by a Mr. Dan Jørgensen from the party which, in other words, relaxed the foreign policy when one had the power of government itself, and who drew a picture that the Prime Minister has not understood anything of any thing, and then warm defence from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, so at some point I was sitting at home in front of the TV screen and thinking: Is that good for any of us? You can get worried. But frankly, yesterday I got the Ting-Price of Everything, a strange iron thing, heavy, a good dumbbell. I left a picture on my Facebook, and people wrote, "Where is the ugly, what is it? This morning I put it down on my desk, and then I could actually see that it pictured two people with mouth and ears, quite nicely, and then it really struck me, which of course is a banality, but that there is probably a reason that we humans were born with one mouth and two ears and two eyes: we have to listen more to each other than we talk, and two eyes, because we have to show the ability to look balanced on things. Honestly, I think the people can hold that nuance. I think the people know that if you close one eye and put the other stick into the ghettoes, you can see heavy problems with parallel societies, with people who are ill-suited, with people who do not share our values, and indeed you can see that religion plays a role. I also think that people can see that if you then open the second eye and close the first and then look out at all the companies that have skilled employees who have been here in the first generation or second generation or third generation, no matter what the originator they have, and no matter what religion they have, who rise up every morning, do their jobs, put their children to school, take part in parental work, participate in the association life, talk to the neighbors, including the Danish ones, across the hedge, then there is no problem. That is why I just want to insist that we allow ourselves to open both eyes, because otherwise we're gonna play with some balances in this society that's important. It is of no use that we send the signal to people who have chosen Denmark and who have citizenship, first, second, third generation, who suit themselves and theirs, and who have a religion that is not mine, that we do not regard them as integral. That is the message I was trying to send the other day, and I believe that the people have the expectation that we will be able to maintain that balance. That does not upset the fact that we have serious problems, but my point is that if we are going to go to the heavy problems and also with the toughness and precision that we need, then we also need the support of the people, including those of the people who might think that we have misunderstood something. So I do not think we need the controversy or the attempt at such a deliberate misunderstanding, just to drive the debate that I myself saw on top of the speech I made on Tuesday, because does that controversy really bring us forward? The same applies to today's big discussion, a little more out there with journalists than in this Chamber, but still, about burkas. I think that everyone in here agrees that burka is something we do not like as in at all and I think that the rapporteur of the Left hit it very precisely by talking about these mobile parallel societies. But what is the best solution? Yes, it is certainly not to draw a picture that those who do not immediately say, let us ban it, almost support it, and long live the burka, because I do not really hear anyone arguing for that. I think it is basically sensible to reflect on things, discuss matters and think about things. By the way, I heard Mrs Mette Frederiksen too, and respect for it. Away with the burka, but what's the right method? I actually think the Danes can understand that. I think, at all events, that we risk underestimating the Danes if we talk small corners instead of looking at the problems with both eyes open. The government has no doubt that it is ready to take much harder and seriously the root of the problems than we have done before, but we insist that we do so on the basis of a debate where we do not make ourselves dumber than we are. I think that is also the driving force for us to develop jointly, hopefully, some methods where we tighten up compared to those that need to be tightened up in a way that does not bother the many. I do not have the patent on the solutions, but I can see that there are some dilemmas, because it is the case that the legislation we adopt in this Parliament is aimed at Denmark. After all, it is not legislation that is aimed at all kinds of society other than the Danish one, so the means we use, the way we think about legislation, the way we have created responsibilities between the state and the regions and the municipalities and autonomous institutions, civil society and the public sector, have been developed in a Danish tradition. It is based on the fact that this is Denmark, which is built up over generations with a certain tradition of freedom and a certain way of being together. This was the dilemma that I tried to outline in my speech the other day by taking the free school tradition as an example of it, for it is a unique freedom right that we have created in Danish society, which has roots back to Grundtvig and Kold, and which one envys us in many places when you go out into the world. Because there are not many other countries where, regardless of the switching rate, whether you make a lot of money or less money, you really have the opportunity to choose private school for your child. There aren't many places, but it's based on a contract or an agreement that hasn't been written down that this free choice of school is being used in order to inform our children and not darken them. When we then experience that we have invited people into Denmark who have been made Danish, that is to say have been born, but who are not Danish and free in their set of values, and they use the freedom value to the contrary of what was intended, we have a challenge. This is a dilemma, because if we are to tighten up and do it in general and we have strengthened the supervision of the free schools, and indeed we are also on the way to new legislation on free schools, in which we generally tighten up regulations on the start-up of new free schools, it obviously includes what the Alternative's rapporteur also asked about, namely that it can be seen as a sort of burden for the many people in the goose-eyes to hit the few. That's the dilemma. That is why I think it is so important that we get to talk frankly about this, because from this honest talk that many are integrated and skin colour and religion are no obstacle to it, I think we can also get the popular support of everyone to do something that is targeted at the few, those who actually constitute the whole problem, and we have to do something about that. So let's not argue in a way that makes us stupider than we are. This is also true in the climate debate. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that for many years we have made Denmark a green forerunner, and I agree with that, and I can confirm that. Over the last 16 years alone, we have increased the share of renewable energy from 11%. to today 30%. It's quite significant. It's approaching a triple. For 12 of the 16 years this country has had a Left Prime Minister, so something must have been done right. For example, the new offer model for sun and wind support means that we reduce CO2 2 Does it mean, then, to quote another of my predecessors, that there is nothing to come for? No, I don't think it does. That does not mean that my party or civil and liberal parties can take all the credit. No, of course we can't. It would be absurd to argue, because the truth is that this area has been characterised by broad agreements, by working together. And I am not afraid to say that social democracy has played a major role and has been pulling in a green direction along with the rest of the left for many years. Thank you for that, and respect for it. I can see myself, moreover, in most of the proposals for adoption put forward by that part of the opposition, i.e. an ambitious climate policy, broad solutions, long-term framework conditions, more green jobs. I can see myself in that. It has been a long debate. Thank you, too, to our four North Atlantic members for having taken part in it with great commitment. I would just like to say briefly that we attach importance to cooperation. We also attach importance to the involvement of North Atlantic members in major conciliation negotiations. This is also true in the context of the Finance Act. After all, it is a new tradition that my government has introduced that we also have a slightly more formal dialogue with the North Atlantic members in the financial law process. After all, we have proposed strengthening the justice area in Greenland by 40 million. kr. over the next four years. We would also like to have a dialogue on the defence settlement, in which the Minister for Defence will discuss the specific North Atlantic aspects in a new defence initiative with the North Atlantic members. The same is true, moreover, in relation to the negotiations for a new multi-annual agreement on criminal justice, which must be set in motion, in which the Minister of Justice will naturally also discuss the North Atlantic perspectives with the North Atlantic members. Then I would just like to say briefly here in relation to the debate and the work that is going on around the constitution both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, that by its very nature it is a work that we follow closely and on which we want to work together. After all, it is at a very different stage where work in the Faroe Islands has gone considerably further than that in Greenland. I recognize myself in a lot of it, as sir. Sjúrður Skaale said about legitimacy and legality, and what the approach to it is. As far as the Faroe Islands are concerned, we have dealt with the proposal in which I am pleased to note that it is a document which respects the constitutional status of the Faroe Islands, in other words the classification of the Faroe Islands into the Kingdom Community quite topically and therefore also the primacy of the constitution at present. And I feel so comfortable with that. It was interesting to hear that it was the two Faroese members of the Folketing who took up what we saw in Catalonia. Of course you can try to draw parallels, but I think you should also be careful about doing so. These are not comparable problems. But that is why it is easy to state that the overall approach to things called dialogue and dialogue and peaceful dealings with each other, which is what we have within the framework of our Kingdom community, should serve as a general reflection and inspiration everywhere. Otherwise, we have to say that what we see in Catalonia is, first and last, a Spanish domestic policy matter. As I said, this has been a long debate in a new and neat framework, which will then be the framework for many political discussions in the parliamentary year we have just started. I look forward to that, and the government is looking forward to it. We're gonna have a very, very busy autumn. Already tomorrow there will be set-up meetings on the Finance Act. We got an agreement in place quite recently on a relaxation of registration fees on cars, the third in this parliamentary term, and now it is about opening up a business and entrepreneurial package, a job reform phase 2, a finance law at all, and a discussion on a new multiannual framework for Danish defence on the basis of a proposal that the government is presenting relatively soon. I look forward to cooperation, and I also hope that, after the year has passed, we will be able to see that, if we did not agree on everything, but on a number of points. And with that I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222452	There are a number of questioners on the list of speakers. We have 60 minutes for questions and I would ask that we try to keep to our times so that we can reach as many as possible. The first to a brief remark is Mrs Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222508	Thank you to the Prime Minister, who may be right in a lot of things at least that it has been a long debate. Many good questions have been asked, and I think many good answers have actually been given. But on at least one central question, I think the answer remains. The government has put forward its tax plan with major tax cuts. We may disagree with them, as I have already said. It is clear, however, that when there are major tax cuts to be made, there is also a bill to be paid. And if we know that it is very much the welfare that must be maintained when economic policy fails to ensure that there is a public economy to be able to keep up with the general population development that we are facing, among other things. with more older people and fortunately for that, by the way. But there is also one which you can probably call the unspecified bill of about 5 billion. kr. to be financed by people on transfer income. And the question has probably been asked here today: who is it on transfer income that is going to help finance the tax reform? Is that the country's national pensionists, is it the recipient of benefits, are they the people on cash benefits? We may have many disagreements about the content of a tax reform, but it must be fair that we, as a government, put forward how we want to finance it and who has to pay the bill. So this is a concrete question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222645	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222646	Thank you. I wonder whether I can come up with an answer that will make Mrs Mette Frederiksen want to go into this debate and help to agree on tax cuts. I'm a little unsure about that. When this picture is drawn that it's at the expense of welfare, I'm very surprised. In other words, Mrs Mette Frederiksen represents a party that recently sat in government and agreed service framework reductions with the municipalities, in other words less money to make municipal welfare for. We agree that the framework will be increased by one billion. The opposite happened at the time when both top tax relief and corporate tax relief were not stopped. So the fact that it happens at the expense of welfare, I just don't understand. If it was the case that my answer here was that Mrs Mette Frederiksen said: fine, then we take it up, we want to share in giving some tax relief, we will take it in the negotiating room then I could understand it. It has been said several times here today that, among other things, it is. It is about children's checks, it is about profit principles, it is about fees on Danish education. And then it will be based on the dialogue that is in the negotiating room. But I do not accept that this is at the expense of welfare. In other words, we want to develop key core welfare areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222758	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222800	It would probably be very good, both for the debate and for the negotiations, for a proper answer to be given to a question. Now I am trying to ask about something else that we have also discussed today, namely burkas. Our position is clear, we are against them. They are an expression of women's oppression, not anything else. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also prepared to ban the burka, if that is what it takes to secure a Denmark where there are no burkas. It is not so difficult to vote for a ban. The difficult thing is to find a way to do it, which is not just a symbolic blow to the air, but which actually solves the problems that exist. For there are some dilemmas, not least in relation to how such a ban is to be enforced. That is why I really want to ask the government specifically whether the government will take the lead in negotiations in this area so that we can find viable solutions to what is obviously a challenge in the field of integration. This is not the biggest challenge, nor is it the most important challenge, but it is a challenge, and that is why we should, of course, resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222900	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005222901	I agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen that this is a major challenge. It's not the biggest, but it's there, and it's got a lot of moves that make this discussion central. That's why it's going on. By the way, I share Mrs Mette Frederiksen's view, and I am also against burkas. Then Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that this is so new, at least in relation to the debate so far, that the Social Democratic Party is also ready for a ban if it can be properly combined. I'll take note of that. I do not think I am revealing any secret by saying that there is a debate going on now I can understand that it has been concluded by the Social Democratic Party here a second ago and that one wants a ban, but so far there has been a debate and it has not been concluded in the government. There is no one in the government and around the government who is in favour of burkas. Everyone's against it. There has been, and continues to be, a discussion about what the best method is to get rid of the devilishness. And that discussion has to be concluded, and once the government has concluded it, and if we reach the same conclusion as the one I can understand Mrs Frederiksen has reached, then it makes very good sense to have a dialogue with the parliamentary political parties on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223010	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223012	Thank you. I would like to ask about the so-called necessary reforms which the Prime Minister, in his opening speech on Tuesday, prided himself on having carried out and which the government will now use some of the room for manoeuvre to give tax relief, not least to the top, with. These are reforms, for example. has been the abolition of the post-retirement wage, the reduction of the benefit, the increase in the retirement age. And allow me to quote from one of the texts of the agreement, from when one of these agreements was concluded, and I quote: The strengthening of public finances, which in the long term takes place through the new withdrawal system, is reserved to ensure the financing of the welfare society in the future. The funds will be used to finance additional expenditure on, among other things: care and health, when there are more elderly people, and for stronger action against wear and tear in the labour market. That's not what the government is doing. After all, we do not provide sufficient funds for the development of more elderly people, for whom reforms have been made and for which money has been claimed to be provided. Well, can the Prime Minister understand that some people are sitting at home thinking this is a breach of promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223130	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223131	No, I cannot understand that, because if I am not very wrong, both my own party and the other two parties that form part of the government went to elections in the parliamentary elections in 2015 on an agenda that was about that, among other things. tax relief should be granted, also on the basis of some views on how public consumption should develop. We have openly put this forward in the election campaign. It has not been quite the same approach from the three parties that form part of the government, but everyone has had the same direction in it, and it is, of course, on the mandate we are elected by the people. And what we have put forward is an economic policy which ensures that there can be real growth in public consumption. It is a policy which, in the way we also design our taxes and our business package, should contribute to moving even more from passive support into active self-reliance and thus over time spending fewer tax dollars on support and thus freeing money that can then either be used to reduce taxes further or that can be put into public consumption. So I don't even recognize that picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223247	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223248	Well, there are some people who have believed in what the Prime Minister has said, so they have believed in the content of what I just read out. And it was that when their retirement age was set up which for some would be very problematic because they had a hard, hard job it was actually because they wanted to reserve some funds to ensure that there was sufficient welfare and new funds could be provided when there were more older ones, so that the number of funds in relation to the number of older people did not decrease. Can't the Prime Minister understand that some of them are sitting at home thinking that I've been cheated?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223333	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223334	[Sound Outfall]... someone has believed in us, and therefore it would be a terrible disappointment if we did not try to work for what we went to the polls on. I know that it may seem inverse to what we have seen in the past, with people who chose to roll back reforms that they then implemented anyway; people who chose to be against tax cuts, who then set the top tax rate down and introduced corporation tax reductions. And if you come from that part of the political family where you're used to that, it may well be that you get a little confused. Anyway, I'm only happy if people have believed what we said. Frankly, we, the parties that are now in government, went to elections on an agenda that was called with variations: it must pay to work. We have put forward a policy which is a starting point for negotiations and which has a balance where there are both the resources to make work worthwhile and, at the same time, there is room for real growth in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223429	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223430	Thank you. And I also thank you for an amazing day here in the service of the people's regime. We have had a very good debate, among other things. on the proposal from the Danish People's Party to prohibit burka or complete clothing. Now the Prime Minister has quoted former prime ministers on various occasions, and it has perhaps been inspired by the fact that he has been with several former prime ministers in connection with the television programmes that have been held and which have been admitted to Marienborg, about these five prime ministers. I just came to think that perhaps this evening I have the basis for perhaps, together with the current Prime Minister, to use a very favored quote from a former Prime Minister, namely the quotation that a good solution will come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223522	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223522-2	In fact, I walked as late as this afternoon wondering if you should bring it into play. It is perhaps also a little sad that I have now mentioned, you might say, three out of four previous colleagues, and perhaps it is the quote that comes closest here. But you don't want to hear me take it in my mouth. But it is true that as far as the party I belong to is concerned, and that is only a third of the government, it is expected that there will be a conclusion tomorrow. This is a discussion that needs to be taken seriously. I have some sort of expert knowledge on this case myself. After all, I myself do not know how many of my colleagues have tried such a burka and allowed me to smuggle from Peshawar into Afghanistan wearing burka; it was also with the Minister of Energy. We were a little younger than we are now, and of course it was a funny thing. But it's just that this has an additional aspect than everything else that's been around here today. Well, when the Minister of Energy and I were a little younger anyway could pass five checkpoints without being charged, then there is also a security aspect to it. There is, of course, the point that anyone who only takes jokes and seriously only seriously etc., but there is also a security aspect in this next to the things we have discussed here today. And it's about whether we can allow people to walk around in public space in a way that they're unrecognizable. And I'm certainly worried about that. So there are many elements in this case that make it possible to consider taking Helle Thorning-Schmidt's quote in his mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223711	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223712	I think I will conclude by saying that if you look at the picture of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Energy in Burka, there is another reason to vote in favour of the ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223724	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223729	I'm sorry, I hadn't heard it was me at all. Thank you to the Prime Minister for a fine speech. I am so glad that the Prime Minister chooses to go in and help us to raise the perspective a little, in relation to what we are actually debating and how much it fills and how much it should fill, especially in relation to exactly this one with burka and religion and integration. I am not going to ask a burka question, because I think that we have now spent plenty of time on it today in the Chamber. And considering how many people it is about in Denmark, it might well be that we give it a little bit of attention. I would like to ask you something that is actually a little more serious. These are the 500 quota refugees that Denmark has decided not to take. I would like to ask, and it may well be that I am the one who has an assumption here and thinks very well about the Prime Minister. I do not imagine that this is an idea that has grown in the Prime Minister's garden. And when I say that, it is because a year ago the Prime Minister was in New York and signed a declaration that we should strengthen the UN quota system. So can the Prime Minister not help us understand whether he himself thinks it is a great idea that Denmark will no longer take 500 quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223856	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005223857	Thank you. All the government's ideas have grown in my garden. There's only one garden. It's a common garden. It's the government's common colonial garden. Everything that grows in it has also grown in my garden. I hope, of course, that a situation will arise before too long when we can re-take quota refugees. For it is far better that the part that Denmark can promise is refugees we choose ourselves than people who come here spontaneously. But we also have to be realistic. And the situation is that in 2015 Europe broke open to an extent that we have not seen in the past, with over 1 million refugees and migrants in one year, including more than 20,000 to Denmark. In addition to the historical problems we have with integration, we need to calm down. Now we are fighting to get the figure down, and things are going very well, and we are, moreover, fighting on the European stage to get the EU's external borders under control. If the situation were to arise, it would be desirable that the influx of asylum, the spontaneous influx, no longer constitute a problem and that Europe is under control, then of course Denmark would have to take back quota refugees. That is exactly what is at the heart of the legislative proposal that the government is going to put forward. The aim is to authorise the Minister to be able to bring in quota refugees based on various criteria, which will then be set out in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224038	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224039	But then you are tempted to ask what it takes. We have heard it before, that is, when the time comes, when there is room, when we can afford, space, resources, surpluses. What's it gonna take? Can't the Prime Minister be a little bit more clear about that? Because I think there are many of us who are super worried that this is an easy solution to say that we would rather not be dealing with that in the future. We'd like to get out of that system. So what's it gonna take? And is it not also a political priority to take and use resources of 500 quota refugees or something, for example? Any tax cuts? It could be something else, too. But is that not ultimately a political priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224122	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224123	In the end, everything is, after all, a political priority. But for me, it's not that much about having the money. It's about having spaciousness. And we have had a large influx of asylum seekers. By the way, we have also tightened up some family reunification rules and others. After all, in the wake of those who have arrived, there is the prospect that there will now also be family reunifications. We have serious integration problems. We're starting to arm it. In other words, I am proud that we have reached a tripartite agreement on better integration, which means that 9 out of 10 refugees in the municipalities are now assessed as labour market preparation against only 1 out of 10 in the past. And the employment rate has risen from 20% in one year. is 27 per cent. And the more results we get home to, and the stronger a showdown we can take with parallel societies, the more balance we can achieve, the sooner we will be able to bring back UN quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224222	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224223	Yes, there are many things you might want to comment on. I just want to start by repeating the praise, because I think it is important to send balanced signals and, above all, positive signals to the incredibly many foreigners who are in Denmark and who contribute to and participate in our community in the best way. The Prime Minister did the same here today, and I think it is good to stick to it. I also think it is a good thing, in the context of the opening debate, to speak in favour of broad cooperation. Somehow there is a tradition of this, but it is especially good if it continues when work is to start. Therefore, I would just like to ask whether the Prime Minister does not think that it is appropriate when we talk about growth agreements, and when we talk about the Danish tax arrangements, that it would be nice if the agreements that are made have a scope that goes beyond 2019, where elections will have to be held again at the latest. Because otherwise no one knows what they have to count on. I just want to say that we are available for negotiations. It is not certain that agreement can be reached, but we are at the disposal of negotiations, and if it goes as it did with the registration tax, one can sit and wait for a long time, because no invitations were ever forthcoming, and that is why the question is: will one seek broad cooperation, or will one not?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224343	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224344	Thank you. In other words, when there was no invitation to the negotiations on registration fees, it may be that we have been wrong, and I would like to be told about this, among other things. because the allocation to be able to phase in new registration fees is decisions we have taken in the past in the circle of parties that have now decided what to do with registration fees. I mean, it's based on, among other things. job reform phase one, integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits, but perhaps I have misunderstood it. So if the Radical Left like to say well with the integration benefit and well with the cash aid ceiling, it is a new situation, and then we must talk to our contractual partner about whether it can open a door, but that is to say, it is connected. And it will also be the forward-looking: where does the money come from? But now the finance minister is calling set meetings, starting tomorrow, and then the parties have to express their appetite for the various sub-areas, and I am not going to exclude anyone in advance, at all, if otherwise what needs to be in both bowls can find a balance. But that process starts tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224501	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224502	Yeah, and that's the PM's choice, of course. You can organise the work in such a way that you end up with the narrow settlements. We have heard a long song about the room for manoeuvre created by reforms, and at least my party has been made in all the decisions underlying it. Therefore, you can choose to organise the work exactly so that you get the results you want, and you want narrow agreements that have a reach for 2019, so you just have to keep the course. But if you want broad agreements, personal tax agreements that you can count on for more than two years, if you want agreements on growth conditions that will last longer than two years, then you have to organise the work so that there is room for other parties, including those who have a different starting point, and it is ultimately up to the Prime Minister, and to do so, and to take responsibility for it if you do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224553	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224555	Well, I have noted the radical interest, and I think it should be repeated to the Minister for Finance. In other words, the naturalness is inherent in the fact that when the Danish People's Party and the government have made decisions, among other things. Even up to the summer break in several years' time on the labour market, which means that money has been reserved, which is now part of a tax discussion, because part of this tax proposal, which I understand the Social Democratic Party seems to be turning to, is to ensure that it is worth saving for the seniors of the future and to overcome the problem of interaction, a problem which has been pointed out by the trade union movement and the pension funds, and which the Social Democratic Party obviously does not want to know about. There is a reserved pool of money, which is why the government and the Danish People's Party have a mortgage on each other. However, I note that the Radical Left has an ambition and then repeats that it has to be put to the vote. I am quite sure that it will be done before the Minister for Finance and then we will assess in the future where that ambition can then be lived out and fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224708	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224712	The Prime Minister speaks a lot about the greens, especially in the world, but has also done so today from the platform, and I would really like to ask a few questions about what the government is planning in the greens, i.e. investments in the energy sector. Because if we now look at this fantastic graph produced over the last 16 years of energy investment, we can see that in the years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 there was nothing invested in terms of renewable energy. I just want to ask whether the Prime Minister has the same plans for 2017, 2018, 2019 and beyond, or whether the Prime Minister is planning that we should go into another gear, in addition to making the agreement last week about wind and sun that we can discuss to, yes, whatever. But that's not what's important. The important thing is the long, tough move. What's the government planning there? Are we going to have ambitions, or are we going to turn down again, as we have seen under previously left-wing governments?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224823	Well, that was it. It's a deal that I mentioned before making a CO2 and the government's goal is clear: we have to be free of fossil fuels by 2050. And we have set a target for how much is to be covered by electricity by 2030. That is to put the bar higher, and I mentioned the figures before, i.e. from 11 to 30 per cent. Over 16 years of age, and we have to go that way. That is also why there is respect for Denmark in the world. Because we are the world leader, and what is going to happen on top of the agreement we have made last week is because we have also had to adjust some things in EU law. After all, at the beginning of the new year, the government will present the framework for, in other words, a new energy agreement. There it will be our ambition, and I would like to make that clear here, also in relation to Mr Beazley's report. Morten Østergaard is that we will have a negotiating process which will hopefully also lead to a new broad energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224943	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005224944	After all, ambition is good, but if we look at last week's agreement, we can see that it is really 50 million. kr. a year to sun and wind for the next 20 years. It is significantly lower than the investments we have seen in sun and wind at any time. So it's slowing down. It's kind of like if the SRSF government drove 130 km/h. On the motorway and the VLAK government came to choose to drive 30 km/h. and then claimed that you were driving at the same speed. You just have to look out the window and see that's not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225018	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225020	In other words, the agreement that has been concluded means that we can make tenders in 2018 and 2019 for a total amount of 1 billion. kr. kr. 2 It is, of course, an extension on top of what we have already done, and it is related to the fact that the EU's approval of aid schemes for agricultural wind turbines will expire in February 2018. So things would stop if we hadn't made this deal. Then the ambition is that on top of that we are preparing for a new multiannual energy agreement, in order to achieve what is the government's ambition, namely that this country should be free of fossil fuels by 2050. And we also have a consumption target by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225124	I would ask that there be a little more silence in the Chamber. Now that is a brief comment to Mr. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225133	Thank you. I just wanted to point out that my speech about Catalonia was not about a comparison between the Faroe Islands and Catalonia, but it was based on my own observations when I was in Catalonia on Sunday. What I am concerned about is the repression of fundamental democratic rights, which I think the Catalan electorate was subjected to. I note that the Prime Minister appreciates a peaceful and democratic dialogue as the right way forward, but I would like to ask whether the Danish Government is in any dialogue with its Spanish colleagues about such a development and whether it is trying to contribute to a peaceful and sensible approach so that it does not develop into an even more deadlocked crisis which could develop into a major headache for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225228	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225229	As I said before, this is a matter for Spanish domestic policy as a whole. That is the way it is, and that is the way it should be, and we would appreciate it if there were the opposite situation. If there were any issue in Denmark of the same nature, I would not like other countries to intervene in it. So what I said before is something quite general, which I think should be the approach to everything, in other words peaceful coexistence and dialogue, and I would like to repeat that here. But it's Spain that has to deal with this situation. I would also like to believe that, when we meet in the circle of colleagues, we will do so next week, if I am not mistaken at an EU summit, that the Spanish Prime Minister is present, and then perhaps it will be unnatural other than that there will be an orientation and a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225345	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225348	I just want to say that the crisis is getting worse. It may be up to a new breaking point here on Monday, so I do not think we can afford to ignore this in the European countries, and I certainly hope that something is going on behind the scenes, which we cannot say publicly at this time. If I were a Catalan today, or if I were a citizen of a country that was subjected to such brutal violations of my democratic rights, then I really wish there were people in free democratic countries who would speak out and speak out the way it was done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225430	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225431	Yeah, that's a comment. Now, I think there are quite a lot of facets in this matter which must also be taken on the board before you turn the criticism in one place, namely against Madrid, and I do not think this is the right place to discuss it. Perhaps a discussion could be held in the Foreign Policy Name or somewhere else. I would say that this was a discussion that would be better suited to a discussion in the Council, and I am quite sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225506	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225509	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for a strong picture. The sight of a younger prime minister and probably the bearded lady in the form of the energy minister in Burka on the way across the border into Afghanistan will probably burn into memory after this debate. In addition, it has also been a Prime Minister who has quoted some of his predecessors, but I would like to quote the Prime Minister himself, for on 30 August 2016 the Prime Minister held a press conference on what he saw in relation to tax policy. There said the Prime Minister: "I give priority to the relief of the tax on the last earned crown to the broad group of key employees, not to the director, who earns several million kroner a year. With that quotation in mind, I just want to ask the Prime Minister how he feels about the note that has just come from the tax minister, which shows that the 100 people who earn the most in Denmark receive a tax relief of DKK 600,000. That's 120 times more than the cashier. What about the fact that it wasn't the director who was supposed to get the big prize?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225636	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225637	Then there is probably another side of the coin which Mr. Nicolai Wammen might also be able to tell me the figures, namely how much tax those people then pay up against what the cashier pays in tax. There is nothing surprising about the fact that if you put the tax down in percentage, that will be how I once gave a speech from the platform about more, less and much which was grammatically correct, and I can refer to the fact that the person who earns a lot will find that when the tax rate is reduced, the tax payment will fall by a greater amount than the person who earns less, who does not pay so much in tax either. It does not upset what is the ambition behind this tax reform, and I am surprised that the Social Democrats are not doing this under the Danes. We are talking about 2 million Danish employees receiving a tax relief of at least 5,000 DKK. It is then translated into that it is wrong and for the rich, but it is for the 2 million richest Danish employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225743	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225745	After all, the Prime Minister can make many comments about what is reasonable or unreasonable. I would just like to hear: does the Prime Minister think that it is in some way connected that a year ago he said that it is not the director who earns many millions of kroner that will be the winner of his reform when what is then put forward is that those who earn the most are given 600,000 kroner. Right into your pocket, which is 120 times more than the cashier? I just have to say to the Prime Minister: I do not think it is connected, and I do not think it is fair, and the Social Democrats do not think that the director should have a tax relief of DKK 600,000. How can the Prime Minister think that's fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225834	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225835	Then I think that the Social Democratic Party should join the debate. But on what premise will this be done? Sir. Nicolai Wammen is not under 2 million Danish employees a tax relief, I understand. There's nothing to talk about. They don't need a penny. If the Social Democrats took the position of saying that they would then like to grant a tax relief to 1,900,000 Danes and how many it is to exclude the last 100 and come to the negotiations, it was a place to start. But you cover yourself in some outrage over some people who pay really, very much in taxes, and use it as an excuse that you don't want to get into a discussion that ordinary Danes, who are most who go to work, get a tax relief at all. I simply cannot understand why a LO family cannot benefit from an increase in the amount available to them. But then you can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225930	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005225931	I also thank you for the image of the Prime Minister in a burka with the Minister of Energy. What I saw at the same time is whether there is also a picture of the Minister of Energy with a Kalashnikov together with Mujahedin, the forerunner of the Taliban. We have a picture like that of the Prime Minister. So it would be interesting if we could have that story at some point. But what I would like to ask is that the Prime Minister said at the end of August to Denmark's Radio about the tax proposal that those who, in relative terms, get the greatest tax relief in what we are putting forward tomorrow are people on general contractual terms. That is, for example, the case. A HK's, she'll be the one who gets the most out of it. Then I'll just have to say it's not right. And some figures presented by the Ministry of Finance three days later showed that it was wrong, it was untrue. And is it because that tax issue is really not so good? If you had made a tax proposal that was really good, you might not be trying to sell it in a wrapper of manipulated numbers. What are the PM's comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230047	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230052	In addition to manipulation, I do not think I can surpass the rapporteur here, who starts with such a little trick with a huge manipulation. And then we're not gonna talk about it, so I'm gonna answer a tax question. What kind of nerve is it to stand and portray me as someone who is with something that becomes the Taliban? Well, what's the rest of it? Is this a fair way of discussing such a claim, and should I reply to something afterwards? Should I start asking about the rapporteur's past in the extreme left in Copenhagen, or what? Well, I haven't had anything to do with the Taliban. So please elaborate on that, and I will answer the second question afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230135	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230146	If, for example, you're gonna have to... Googler on the Internet, you can find a picture of the Prime Minister, where the Prime Minister stands with a Kalashnikov with Mujahedin, who is the forerunner of the Taliban. These are some Islamist extremists. Now we hear that apparently the Minister of Energy was also involved and was transported there in a burka. That's an interesting piece of information. So that is simply what I am commenting on. So my question with regard to the tax agreement is still gone: if it was so good, why did the tax agreement be presented with manipulated figures, with falsehoods that whoever made the most of this was the HK, when it is not the truth at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230216	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230219	But if you'll excuse me... So, it is an unusual lack of insight to say that all Mujahedinks, whether they were fighting out of Iran or Afghanistan, from Peshawar, where I know there were seven different parties and seven different groups, were the Taliban. In other words, does this mean that all those who fought against the Soviet Union's occupation of Afghanistan, which I suppose has been supported in the party from which the questioner comes, should be put in such a speech bang? Excuse me, but I'm getting a little outraged.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230253	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230304	It was, however, a whole new dispute on the burcade debate that we just got here. I will come back to the part of the debate that was about people's transfer income. I know it may not be quite as spectacular, but I am quite convinced that it means a great deal to the people we are talking about. The government is suggesting that an amount of money should be cut ten times as large as the last government cut in transfer income. We're up to 5.2 billion. kr. Now, the Prime Minister was undoubtedly a little puny too, when my President earlier asked about it. However, even earlier this day, the political rapporteur on the Left was able to understand that it is not the pensioners that will be the subject of this debate. Now that we are dealing with social policy, as I am doing everyday, I can announce to the Prime Minister that it creates a rather pronounced degree of insecurity, that we do not know who it is, it affects. So my first question must be whether the Prime Minister can calm the pensioners, in other words to confirm what the rapporteur of the Left said, namely that pensioners are not the ones who have to pay these 5.2 billion. kr., as it says is part of what is to finance the tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230406	Well, I guess there are some people here who speak up an unrest in many ways. That's how I listen to it by drawing a picture of the fact that now the welfare society is breaking down. In other words, what is the ambition of the government is to ensure that it pays off to work, even for people who do not have large incomes. It has to be worth saving. It is then a discussion, I must understand, that the Social Democrats are not concerned at all. It is therefore about the fact that for a number of people on the Danish labour market it is not worth making a pension saving because they are then set off in such a way that there is no benefit at all. That's kind of what drives us. Then it is true that a sketch has been drawn up on how to finance a comprehensive tax package. Those who want to discuss this with the government are very, very welcome if they want to give these tax reliefs. And, as the rapporteur rightly said earlier today, it is, among other things, the case. Earnings principles, ceiling on child pay, fees for Danish education. This is one of our drafts, which we look forward to discussing with the parties who come in, and I have noted that the Danish People's Party has an interest in taking part in this discussion at least. I hope, moreover, that there will be such a dynamic process of negotiation that we will have an agreement in that country, in which we will then be able to fully understand exactly how much tax relief is and how it is financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230532	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230534	There is no need for us to get into very long ideological tirades about one thing and the other. This is a relatively simple question: can the Prime Minister guarantee, as we heard the rapporteur of the Left earlier, that pensioners are not the ones who have to pay the bill? Everything else I've heard before. This is exactly what I'm asking. The Prime Minister can then make me incredibly happy by also answering the questions about how it is with the benefit recipients and the SU recipients. These are three relatively simple groups, and the rest we have heard. So the Prime Minister may now also have very short speaking time on the second comment, the Prime Minister has just answered the three simple questions: can the government guarantee that it is not the pensioners, the benefit recipients and the SU recipients who will pay the 5.2 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230615	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230619	If you have heard what I said, you have also heard that I did not mention pensioners in what I said. So it's not up to that. Around SU, I think I've said before or I'll do it here... that the government has an ambition that later we will... With that, if I don't remember much wrong, we spend in the vicinity of 31 billion. kr. in education in this society, and then we spend about 20 billion. kr. At SU. We have some challenges with students from outside. Most recently this discussion has emerged about the people who come to Denmark to study and return home. It is difficult to get their SU debt recovered and it makes it meaningful to take an SU discussion, but it has no
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230706	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230714	Thank you. After all, the government prides itself on being the greenest government ever. This should be the target of 50 per cent in particular. renewable energy by 2030, which is used as a basis for the claim. The target has been attacked by more than one side to be a much lower target than if instead we continued the development we have seen in Denmark over the past many years. In this respect, I would just like to draw up a small picture which can clarify a point. If one imagines that the government of Jens Otto Krag 1 in a debate in the Folketing in 1965 had prided itself on being the most car-friendly government ever, because it had a target of 1 million cars 10 years later, would that be fair? Or would it just be an expression of the fact that there had never been a technological development that, ten years later, gave rise to 1.5 million cars? With that picture in mind, does the Prime Minister hold so firmly that the government is the greenest ever, or does the government set up targets that may look impressive, but in reality only indicate a development that is due to technological development and a now so low price of renewable energy that any government would meet it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230817	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230821	I think I lost track. I'm not sure I get it. But if the core of it is whether the government is green, then yes. And if there was behind it that the objectives we have set just come on their own, then, I almost said, unfortunately, no. I mean, because it would have been a lot, much easier and probably cheaper. But now I am looking down at the Minister of Energy, who is nodding, and the Minister of Finance, who is getting worried. Because with the ambitions we have set, there will also be a bill. But then there will also be a return, because there is still a premium by being a frontrunner nation, as Denmark is in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230908	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230911	It should go fast, that's right. My point was, of course, that something comes of itself, and when it becomes so cheap and technological development is as fast as it is now, then you could set more ambitious targets. The target set in 50 per cent. By 2030, it is not ambitious. It is a deflection of a curve that we have been following for many years. So when will it be ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230934	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005230936	Well, it is quite fair that you can have a discussion about how ambitiously ambitious you are. However, I have to say that the 50-percent objective by 2030 is an ambitious objective. We're out of those 11 percent. to about 30%. in the last 16 years' perspective. So that is an ambitious objective. And, as I said, at the beginning of the new year, the government will put forward our proposal on how, in a multiannual perspective, we can run for that ambition, and then we will invite negotiations. You can come in there, even if you have an ambition that goes beyond that. It's just gonna have to be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231014	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231022	Thank you for that, President. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Mette Frederiksen and Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil asked, namely the shortage of government funding for tax reform, which says that there will be adjustments in the area of transfer income rising from 1.75 billion. kr., I think it is, next year at 5.5 billion. kr. in 2022 and onwards. Now it has been asked three or four times now, and I do not understand why the Prime Minister is not just saying what it is, namely that these are figures which we simply do not dare to put forward. Because if you're gonna find that much money, you can't know that because we've been sitting here and looking at this... it's gonna be okay to say that you're just adjusting a profit principle here and here. Then it is something about going in and shaving the SU away compared to those who would like to take a Master's degree course, to look at the possibilities of how much graduates can get etc. Why don't you just say it the way it is, that if you have to find 5.5 billion? kr. on transfer income in 2022, are the clumps so large that you need to get hold of?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231131	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231137	Well, I don't mind saying things the way they are if they were like that. The government has put forward various packages for negotiation for the parliamentary political parties, and I understand that, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party has signed up in advance because it has apparently received some sort of scare of tax cuts after it has itself reduced the top tax and reduced corporation tax while at the same time making cash benefits reform and early retirement reform and cutting into the municipalities' services framework. Then the idea that the Danes should get rid of cheaper taxes has become so completely shocked that they are not interested in this discussion at all. But if you were, you could join it. And yes, it is planned that in a combination of room finance and other things we would like to give them tax relief, and there's this lump. I have pointed out that, among other things, it is true. is something like capping the children's check, looking at how we finance our Danish education, income principles and other things. And if the Social Democratic Party has more ideas, you can raise your hand and join the debate. Unfortunately, however, it is evident that these two paths are developing in Danish politics, where one way is that one way is to imagine that ordinary employees, 2 million Danish employees, were granted tax relief, and that way the Social Democratic Party will not be able to discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231245	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231248	I simply do not understand why the Prime Minister is so angry. Well, it's kind of just the government's tax issue I'm asking about, quietly. It says that there must be 5.5 billion. kr. in the area of transfer income in 2022, and now we have asked a five or six times, and we cannot get an answer. Then I just ask calmly whether the Prime Minister will not admit that if you have to find 5.5 billion. kr. In the area of transfer income, it is not the case that a month is just being adjusted here and here on some income principles at all. Then it's really big chunks you need to get in there and get hold of. And if the government had presented such detailed funding for its financial bill and its tax reform that it had been said that it was the SU that was to be looked at, gone with the SU for candidates and graduates, then there would have been thousands of demonstrators out here. Isn't that why you don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231334	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231338	Well, if we had a thought of cutting the SU in relation to these tax proposals, we would have said so. I just stood there and said the opposite. And we have also answered that question several times during the day. After all, this is such a political shadow discussion, because what does it really cover? So, I simply cannot understand it: a Social Democrat who recently sat in government and gave top tax reliefs and corporate tax reliefs, while cutting cash benefits and early retirement, will not even be involved in a discussion about whether you could imagine a cashier receiving a tax relief of DKK 5 000 so that it would pay better to work. You shut that off, and you draw a picture of the fact that whoever could get the bad idea of giving the cashier a tax relief of 5,000 kroner, probably has a secret plan to break down society. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231428	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231435	Thank you. Time is short, but I would nevertheless like to begin by commending the Prime Minister for his retention of important nuances on the issue of integration. In fact, I think it was an important statement and I think that the way the Prime Minister acted on that question put the cabinet where it should be. So thank you for that. But then the rose for tonight is over. So my question is about the same thing I can see that the Prime Minister is being annoyed by the question that has just been asked, namely where the 5 billion. kr. must come from. I have tried to get an answer at first reading of the Finance Act, and I have tried again today to ask the rapporteur of the Left. I do not think this is an unreasonable question. They present a tax reform and tell us who is going to have some tax rebates, but you won't tell us who you want to put your hands in your pockets to pick up the money. That is why my question is quite simple: where should the 5.25 billion? kr. Come from? I do not want an answer to this child's check and the other things, because both the Prime Minister and I know that no more than 5 billion can be found there. kr. Larger groups need to be addressed. Then we cannot just get an answer to what the Left is putting on that negotiating table to find the 5 billion. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231552	Thank you. We'll get the answer now. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231555	Thank you. You can't just stand there and want what answers you want. Well, you can, but it's not a raffle like that. After all, this is a political debate we have. And thank you for the rose, and thank you for holding it up, because I would have been very nervous if it had continued. Well, I've answered that question. I have answered: What are the reasons why we want to give Danes, as they are most in the labour market, a tax relief? What is the profile of the funding elements to be included? From there we take it further into some negotiating rooms. And I am very sorry that the entire Danish left, who otherwise claim to take care of the interests of the broad groups of employees, has already resigned, because it is evident that some of the everyday heroes who rise up every morning do their jobs, make society's wheels spin and help us move thousands out of passive support and into the labour market have to have a tax relief. And then we have to discuss it with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231653	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231657	Now the PM made a lot of use of those two ears. I think the Prime Minister knows that the Enhedslisten, and also the Social Democratic Party, would like to reduce the tax on low incomes. We just disagree with the way the government wants to finance it. But leave it alone. When I ask about the second, it is because the Left itself has played out that they will find 5 billion. kr. We can then read in the Stock Exchange that you even have a note in which you have written that you have to find them in a way that increases the supply of work by 7.200. There are a number of experts who say that this is, for example, the case. This can be done by cutting heavily in the graduation rate, i.e. in the benefits for new graduates, or this can be done by less regulating the transfers when we get across the other side of 2022 and forward, so that the old-age pension and early retirement pensions and other transfer income do not follow. Can't we just take a look, and it's not for me, for the people's pensioners, students and others who sit out there and don't know what's waiting for them, get an answer to where the money's coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231749	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231753	Anyway, I have the answer. I can repeat it, but I don't know if Mr. Pelle Dragsted becomes more satisfied with or gets a greater ambition to enter into some concrete tax negotiations of it. So I do not really think I can contribute to providing further information than I have already done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231815	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231823	Thank you. I would like to talk a little about parallel societies and ask a little about it, because I note that the Prime Minister and the government will take action against parallel societies. I think that makes sense. I actually find that in many areas we have worked quite well together on this, for example. by ensuring that more children are offered today, if they do not know the Danish language, by putting in place strengthened supervision against free schools, in a large part of the trialogue negotiations, to take action against cultural associations that do not spend their money properly. So I think it is a good idea to take action against parallel societies. For approx. One year ago there were a number of principals from high schools around the country who shouted guard in arms because they saw that there came what they call ghetto high schools, where a large part of the students have other ethnic origins. They would like to see something done to counteract this development because they are experiencing that it can help create parallel societies. Here I would just like to hear the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister also think that it is a problem to see the development in which several colleges, especially in the West region or on Funen, have a large share of pupils with other ethnic origins?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231921	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005231925	The short answer is yes. That is why we must do something about it. And when I have asked three ministers now to spend a few months making a concerted effort, it is because I think we should go further and I am not saying that the rapporteur does not, but we all have to go one step further than just stand and shout out loud and say that we are simply prohibiting all Muslim free schools, or we are just doing something like that. Because it's not that easy. I also think that you will see when you look deep into it that there is a difference between high schools, depending on where you move around in Denmark. There are situations where the composition of a resident in a particular geography and in a particular high school country is such that if you are going to a high school in your own vicinity, it will be heavy, i.e. measured by how many with other ethnic backgrounds there are. You will see high schools elsewhere, where there may be some form of magnetism, that is, where you have reached some sort of threshold in the composition of pupils, which makes people with other ethnic backgrounds begin to search there. That's why I think you're going to see that the solution when you dig into it and that's why we've set this work in motion... isn't necessarily the same everywhere. That is actually what was in my first speech this evening. I think if we're gonna find out something that works, we're gonna have to apologize for saying it this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232051	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232053	In fact, what is particularly close to this case is that for over a year we have had both rectors, high school teachers, high school pupils, distribution committees, who have agreed on what to do, namely to give the distribution committees greater powers to ensure that these bilingual pupils are distributed. I have even heard the Liberal Minister for Integration think so too. For a year now in the opposition, we have been trying to change these rules, we have been trying to get meetings, we have been trying to get the minister to come forward with progressive proposals so that these pupils can be scattered. Can the Prime Minister not ensure that there is soon a proposal that will allow these students to be scattered at the request of the whole sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232136	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232137	I can make sure we take this discussion seriously. That's exactly why I've put this discussion, which is about attacking these parallel societies a little wider, so we don't jump from tue to tue, that is, from burka discussion to another discussion, but get a comprehensively thought-out strategy on how to get these parallel communities done. The question of certain educational institutions becoming pupils' compositions inappropriate in terms of breaking down parallel societies is part of this discussion. A work has been started which will be completed by the end of the New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232219	The last person to speak in this round is Mr. President. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232227	Thank you. Let me also start by acknowledging that the Prime Minister is looking with two very open and balanced eyes at integration in Denmark. I would like to use the last few questions to take a look at Europe and direct the same two eyes towards it, which has filled very little in today's debate, but where a great deal is happening. Because it can be said that stability in the United States is not what it has been; it certainly is not in Russia, nor is it south of Europe, and at the same time there has been two strong leaders in France and Germany who will try to make the European Union more effective when it comes to climate and energy, when it comes to migration, when it comes to cooperation in a wide range of areas. And the question is, where does Denmark place itself in that debate? There are incredibly many forces at home who are currently so concerned about looking at Brexit and the English example. I know the Prime Minister is not, but frankly I was a little concerned that the only comment the Prime Minister had on some of the proposals made by the President of France and the Chancellor of Germany was that now was not the time to come up with a whole lot of news, but to make it more efficient. I think that is exactly what two Heads of State are trying to do, and I just want to know where the Prime Minister sees Denmark in the upcoming discussions here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232344	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232346	I see Denmark as a country that has a great deal to offer in the European discussion. In order to solve some of the core tasks that were also agreed in Bratislava, that is to say, to get growth back, to get youth unemployment reduced just to mention a few things, Denmark stands as a shining example of what needs to be done, namely that the answers to those questions can not only be delivered in Brussels but require national action. It is because we have made reforms at home that in recent times we have never had a youth unemployment problem that matches what is seen in southern Europe. So we belong in that discussion and we are also welcome in that discussion. We also have our reservations, and that is one of the reasons why I have warned against some of the proposals that are being put forward now. Because I do not believe in these little ideas that we should use the seats that will be in surplus in the European Parliament, because Britain is leaving EU cooperation, to make transnational lists of new transnational parties for which we can vote. I do not think there is any perspective in merging the President of the Commission and the President of the Council and having such a super president, who must be elected according to a special procedure. And that is one of the things that lies, among other things. from Macron, in which I think it is going to make noise about what I am actually very happy to participate in, namely a piece of work that is about getting the EU's external borders under control, ensuring that we implement decisions, that we keep the countries committed to implementing the reform processes that make the internal market add value, by doing your homework as well; it gets a little abrupt here, but just to indicate a little what I am thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232531	So we're only missing 2 times 30 seconds. First, it's sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232536	I heard you, sir. President. But let me ask more specifically, because I disagree that responsibility for economic policy lies basically at national level. However, when it comes to climate, when it comes to energy union, when it comes to migration, when it comes to our security against terrorism, I believe that these are areas where Danish sovereignty can only be enforced by sharing our formal sovereignty with the other European countries, thereby gaining sovereignty over these major security challenges. This is just what I want to make sure that the Danish Prime Minister and the government will also work for, that is, that Denmark is completely and not half of it when the decisions and the work get under way in the coming months.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232617	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232620	I very much agree with that, overall. Then there is a special dimension to migration: we have a legal reservation. However, I agree that, on many of these aspects, strong European cooperation is needed. There is also a need for a Europe that knows its visiting time. After all, there is nothing bad without it being good for something, and the chance that exists in the world community now is that Europe can go in and take a role, both by creating more free trade agreements that create growth, but which also help to set European standards in the global economy, in terms of consumer protection, climate and such things on the climate side, where we promise our climate commitment collectively. That is also why the discussion that took place here earlier today that we have abolished national CO2 so I do not think we are fundamentally divided.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232719	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since no party has expressed its wish for a second round, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232734	There are two proposals for adoption. First, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 2 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 58 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 2 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 1 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) lapsed. That concludes the opening debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232825	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak out here from the platform? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We are not quite done with the negotiations, it will be a moment. Nice and easy, don't you think?
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232846	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171005232942	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 October 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
