ParlaMint-DK_20170511100026	The meeting is open. From the PM I have received the following letter: Following the Prime Minister's recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 3 May 2017 welcomes the end of January 2017 with effect from 11 May 2017. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). The President of the Parliament Following the Prime Minister's recommendation of 3 May 2017, the Royal Resolution of 3 May 2017 welcomes the termination, with effect from 11 May 2017, of the temporary transfer of the business of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly to the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Nordic Cooperation Karen Ellemann Kloch pursuant to the Royal Resolution of 31 January 2017. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Lars Løkke Ramussen Today there is the following review: Christian Juhl (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Jacob Mark (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100136	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100211	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 102 by Erik Christensen (S), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Anders Johansson (KF), and we are ready for the vote. A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 102 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 101 of Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), Rune Lund (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Andreas Steenberg (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [against 0], abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100426	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100455	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100517	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100542	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100605	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100627	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100653	If we give a moment of peace, I am sure that the House will be able to organize itself as we now have to do in order to participate in this or other work. We're gonna breathe a little bit. We are about to begin a first reading on motion for a resolution. B 90, if the last of those to speak, at least seep away, so that it is only from the platform that we are now speaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100759	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Public Innovation who is starting. And the Minister is on the way, I see it is very fortunate, and she is being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511100834	Thank you very much for that, President, so long as you have it, you do not know when you will have it again. Fourth Vice-President That is right!). We are discussing the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the abolition of the temporary exemption from Digital Post. Basically, it can be said that the transition to Digital Post has been a success. More than 4 million Danes are registered with Digital Post from the public sector, all the while approx. Half a million is exempt. This also saves the public sector quite considerable amounts every year that we have replaced the old paper letters with the new digital ones. In total, 81%. of the registered citizens satisfied to receive their mail digitally from the public. When the Danish Parliament considered the bill on Digital Post and it was adopted, it was written into the legislative notes that the rules for the use of Digital Post had to be evaluated in the long term and possibly also adjusted. It was also intended that the exemptions provided for in the law could be adjusted as experience gained and developments in society developed. Now it can be said that, as far as the intentions of the comments on the bill are concerned, to adjust the rules for exemption from Digital Post, Dansk Folkeparti has come before us with this proposal. Specifically, it is proposed that there should be no longer the possibility of a so-called temporary exemption from Digital Post. This means that in future all exemptions must be subject to time limits. At the time of the introduction of Digital Post, temporary exemptions were allowed on the basis that citizens who are perhaps today unable to use Digital Post may be able to do so at a later stage. I think that is still the case, among other things. for citizens who may be ill for a shorter period and who would then have to be ready to move to Digital Post or to become more ready for IT at all. Of course, it is important that those citizens should be able to continue to register for the Digital Post at any time when it is that they should be ready for it. But we also know now that by far, the vast majority of citizens who were granted a temporary exemption back in 2014 have subsequently had it replaced with an unlimited time limit, and thus there are only about 30,000 citizens who today have a temporary exemption. We have also heard from some municipalities and organisations that these two types of exemption that exist today may well give rise to some confusion among some citizens in relation to: do I now need to renew my exemption? Am I temporarily exempted or am I exempted without time limit? It has also put undue pressure on the municipal civil service. Therefore, the government can see the reasonableness of the proposal that all exemptions should be subject to time limits in the future, and it can therefore also be said that a change in these rules is entirely in line with the government's work to simplify rules in the public sector and ensure less use of resources, so that we can instead spend money on welfare. This proposal will reduce the cost of administrative services in the municipalities by a small amount, as they will no longer be required to send information letters to citizens about the expiry of the exemption and therefore no longer have to deal with cases of expiry of the temporary exemption. At the same time, it will also be a relief for those who are ultimately concerned, namely the citizens concerned, who no longer need to think about whether we should now see to it that our temporary exemption is renewed. That is why the government can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, and so I, as Minister, will also begin to change the announcement of exemption from Digital Post, if there is support for it in general here in Parliament. Citizens who today only have a temporary exemption will therefore be informed as soon as possible that their exemption will now be granted without time limit, but that they are, of course, very welcome to register for Digital Post at any time, if they so wish. Thank you for that, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101302	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101306	Thank you to the Minister for the positive approach to that. A question has been asked in the Folketing about it before Christmas, where it was the then Finance Minister who replied to how many were in the situation on 1 November 2016 that their temporary exemption expired. The answer was that it was 133,000 and most of them were then granted an extension of their temporary exemption. However, 22,000 of them did not do so for some reason, and the Minister then said that they would be sent a letter stating that they were now automatically registered for the digital mailbox. Has there been any kind of investigation into whether or not they have logged in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101401	You have the opportunity to see on an ongoing basis when someone has been active, but of course not to go in and see which posts the citizens are reading or not reading. The fact that we are now cleaning up this system a little in the light of the current experience will mean that the well over 30,000 citizens, who today have a temporary exemption, will now also receive a letter stating that they will receive a permanent exemption. If there is then a citizen out there who might think that he should also have a permanent exemption and who has not been granted an extension of his previous exemption, then he is welcome to apply for it. But it's not like you can just get it handed over. This requires compliance with a number of criteria which have been set out and which also mean that people such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, for example, have to comply with a number of criteria. The questioner in his present physical state, as far as I can see, could never, at this stage, ever be the holder of an exemption. This requires compliance with the relevant criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101505	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101507	It is clear, and it has to be said, that it has actually been possible to deal with this issue which I can assess satisfactorily in terms of granting the permits despite the scepticism about the temporary issue we are talking about here. When you see the system for which the Minister is now Minister, you can sometimes wonder if anyone is checking it out. Now we have a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which I think is very good for the Minister. We have a situation in which 22,000 people were automatically registered with Digital Post in the autumn, but it is a little oversimplified if it is really the case that no one has checked the mail. In the past, they were happy not to have to do so, but no one has checked whether they have actually done so at all. My thesis is that they probably haven't, which means that people fell through and didn't get the answer to important requests from the public. So I think it's so good we did this. However, there should be some warning lights that light when the system does not check whether the people who got out of the temporary arrangement have made use of to log in at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101613	Then I shall try to clarify it further, because it is not the case that we are not following this issue. I would also like to state basically that Digital Post has been and is a huge success. There are today well and well these around. 30,000 temporary exemptions left. Agely, just over half of them concern citizens between 45 and 75 years of age, and only approx. 10% is over 75 years. Then we also know that about 90 percent. of the registered citizens have signed up with an email address or a mobile number to which they receive a message that is ticking in and that they can read if a new message arrives in Digital Post to remind them that there is new mail in Digital Post. According to the latest figures, it's only 4.2%. of the registered citizens who at the end of February had received digital mail in the last 6 months without having been logged into the system during the period. This includes the fact that there may be many different reasons for this. In the time of physical letters from the public sector it was probably not all mail that was read either. I think you have to be honest with me. It can also be imagined that not everyone keeps going in and reading their paychecks or pension announcements, and that is ultimately people's choice. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself will always go in and read the latest pay slip. Obviously not everyone does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101740	We are therefore grateful to the Minister. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101754	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is very good. I think that many of us have experienced it when we have been to meetings around Denmark. I actually experienced it a few weeks ago, when an elderly lady came over to me and said: Can't you do it with the temporary change; why should we search every two years? She was an active member of the senior council. Fortunately, I was able to inform her that it was actually on the agenda in the Folketing, so thank the proposers for putting it on the agenda. There is full support from the Social Democratic Party. It's been more than a rock in the shoe. We can only guess why people have come up with so much gene applications, but that is one of the reasons why people are reluctant to digitise. I think it is excellent that it seems at least so far that there is a large majority to change this. I also think it is appropriate to thank the Elders cause, which has raised this matter with many of us, and which can now note another small victory in the book, because we all agree that this is sensible to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101921	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is the next one, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511101928	I very much agree with the Minister and also with the Socialist rapporteur that this is a very good proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. We have a society where we have really taken the digitalisation to heart and reap the fruits of it. This is in terms of providing citizens with better service and faster service, but of course also in a way that allows those who are unable to use the technology to opt it out. I think it makes very good sense that we have the possibility that a citizen who is not familiar with IT, if you meet different requirements, can, of course, opt out. And I very much agree that it is a hassle to re-examine every two years if you have chosen to have a temporary exemption from digital mail. That is why we in the Left are in agreement and we support the proposal. This makes it easier for citizens who have withdrawn from it not to have any trouble with re searching. It also frees resources in the public sector that these applications from people should not be dealt with, because experience shows that the same applications are repeated and that they will nevertheless be re-examined. And if you think you've been on IT course and now you've become familiar with IT, you can always sign up for digital mail. So this is a very good proposal which emphasises that we are a nation that is really good at digitisation. Of course, the citizens who have problems with it will be taken into account. And then there is no reason why it should be so hasty and bureaucratic. So this is a quite sensible proposal and we on the Left support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102113	Thank you. There are no comments, and then there is a new rapporteur, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102135	I apologise for the delay, President. The Enhedslisten will also warmly support this proposal. After all, we have a different basic attitude to this than most other parties in the Folketing. We believe that the digital mail situation should not be forced, but that it should be something that the citizens signed up for, and we can say 'not to spoil the good mood', but such a bit of teasing can be allowed to get away with the fact that if you had chosen that approach, you would not have had these problems. It would then have been certain that the citizens who joined the Digital Post were also those who knew what it was all about and who would take advantage of it. But with the small pill we think it is a very good proposal, so thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102227	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102236	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance wants a simpler public sector without unnecessary administrative hassle. I think most people know that. That is why we can also support this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party which we are debating today. As we have heard here from the platform, it means a lot of administrative tasks in the municipalities when the citizens are granted this temporary exemption from Digital Post: a letter of orientation must be sent out when the exemption expires and the cases must be dealt with in all possible places. And, of course, this creates a lot of confusion and uncertainty on the part of the individual citizen, who does not always have clarity about the process, that is, where one is in the process and whether the exemption is to be renewed or not. We cannot be familiar with that. When compared with the fact that the vast majority of citizens who were initially granted temporary exemption have today been granted an unlimited exemption, it makes very good sense to remove that possibility so that in future all exemptions will be unlimited in time. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102352	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102354	Thank you very much. I have so far been a little hesitant about this, because I have thought to some extent that people themselves should have the freedom to choose this temporary solution, so I was going to listen very carefully to what happened today. And I actually think these are some excellent arguments that come on the table. The advantage of allowing people to choose for themselves becomes less and less as the debate progresses. There are too many drawbacks to it, too much administration in what is too much confusion, it creates too much confusion, and there is actually too little need. So I think it has been a wise debate and, in the light of it, I would recommend to my group that we vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102445	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102455	In the Radical Left, we have had a lot of doubts about this bill, because it was difficult for us to figure out who is really going to be on this temporary arrangement to be exempt from Digital Post. There are a large number of criteria for permanent exemption, so we were actually of the opinion that it could not be very many people. Then you can discuss whether 30,000 on this temporary arrangement are many people, but you have to assess that for yourself. But the short part is that we have come to the conclusion that we are not going to whip these 30,000 people to go to Digital Post, and we also think that the minister has made some sensible arguments. It is also a great bureaucracy to set up constantly to assess whether anyone can be temporarily exempted and whether they should be transferred to Digital Post later. So we would also like to vote in favour of the resolution and say that these people are allowed to be permanently excluded from Digital Post.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102558	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102606	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal that citizens who are exempt from receiving digital mail should not apply for exemption over and over again. It costs a lot of resources to assess the individual applicants, and it does not make sense to have to repeat the process over and over again. I have had the pleasure or the dubious pleasure of sitting close to some of the visitors who had the task of checking whether citizens could be exempted from the Digital Post at the time when the whole process had to be carried out for all citizens, and this cost a great deal of resources. However, it is important to me and to the SF that you as a citizen can always register later. One might ask oneself: is there anyone who could at any time later be interested in signing up for Digital Post? Yes, there is. It is there in situations where, for example, it is children who come and help to take over various forms of help for taxes and what else might be, and it makes sense that you can then register again. But I have noted myself that it is relatively simple to sign up for Digital Post and wish that you receive your mail digitally rather than with regular snail mail and in the mailbox, so it should not be a problem that you can of course do it yourself. But it should be the individual who just says that now you are ready for it or whatever it may be. But it is a very good debureaucratisation proposal, so I think it is nice to hear that the Minister also welcomes it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102800	In autumn 2016, a large part of the temporary exemptions granted during the transition to the mandatory digital mail in 2014 expired. So there are currently 35 000 citizens who have a so-called temporary exemption. For many of those citizens, the fact that the exemption is temporary and the experience is that only a few of the citizens will actually be transferred to digital mail when their temporary exemption expires. We are then standing here with a motion for a resolution from the DF which proposes to change the rules so that in any case an unlimited exemption is granted. We in the Conservatives think this is very good because it gives a sense of security to many of these citizens, especially the elderly, that they are not forced into the new system until they are ready for it or before they want to sign up for it themselves. It is much better for the individual citizen. However, there is also, of course, the whole administrative problem which is about to be dealt with here and to remember to send out a message that the exemption should now be extended. I also think it is an important element that this motion for a resolution also ensures some debureaucratisation. In other words, this resolution means that no citizen is forced into the digital system because he has forgotten to apply for exemption. I think that's good. So I would just like to conclude by thanking the Danish People's Party for having tabled the proposal and saying that we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102930	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511102938	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive reception of our motion for a resolution. As I said, this is a motion for a resolution that we have tabled to deal with some of the insecurity and confusion created by the temporary exemption from digital mail. It is partly for those who had initially been granted a permanent exemption and who thought that they should seek again and thus become insecure whether they should now enter the digital system, partly for those who had been granted a temporary exemption and actually thought that it was under control, but who then instead ended up in it, one might say, digital universe. That is also what the Socialist rapporteur referred to in his questions to the Minister, and I think that is certainly worth examining, i.e. whether some of them were automatically transferred to digital mail, which might not have been transferred, but had simply forgotten to apply for a new exemption. In any case, there is an opportunity to go a little further. But for now I would like to thank the Minister and thank Parliament for the positive reception of our proposal, which hopefully will create more security and, as a wonderful side effect, also has the fact that there will be a little less bureaucracy. So that is what modern Danish calls a win-win situation. So thank you for receiving me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511103113	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511103127	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Employment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511103152	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution which we are going to deal with in the Parliamentary Chamber today, the Alternative and Enhedslisten will make early retirement a permanent right. Thus, citizens who have been granted early retirement must not be able to obtain early retirement, even an early retirement pensionist who gets better and becomes able to work. Does that make sense? I do not think that makes any sense at all. I do not think we should use taxpayers' money to support people who are actually able to support themselves. For me, it is absolutely crucial that early retirement is granted only to people who are unable to work at all, even in a flexible job. We agree on this in the conciliation group behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. It is therefore necessary that the ability to work should be substantially and permanently reduced. However, it cannot be ruled out that, in exceptional cases, a citizen may experience an improvement in, for example, the environment. the health conditions and will be able to work. Should you continue to receive an early retirement pension? I don't think you should. The alternative and Enhedslisten, on the other hand, believe that it makes good sense and justify it among other things. with the fact that many citizens are supposedly afraid of having their early retirement pension withdrawn by a few hours of employment. The idea is that the risk of early retirement leads to people who are entitled to an early retirement pension not having the courage to try to work at all. Therefore, according to the Alternative and Enhedslisten, the disqualification rules involve high socio-economic and human costs. It is of course remarkable that the Alternative and Enhedslisten, which usually state that the rules for granting early retirement are far too strict and that far too few are granted early retirement, now seems to think that too many have been granted early retirement. Because if there really are many people who refrain from working because of the risk of early retirement, then it must be because they have been granted an early retirement pension even if their ability to work was not permanently reduced. That may be the case, of course, but I think it is one of the exceptions. I would argue at all times that it is sensible for legislation to be able to exclude early retirement. However, I would like to stress straight away that early retirement is granted on a permanent basis up to the age of retirement and that there is no way to withdraw early retirement simply because you are able to work a few hours a week. The fact is that in 2016 ten people were denied early retirement and the 2016 figure did not stand out. For several years the number has remained fairly stable at five to fifteen disclaimers per year. The fact is that the municipalities re-evaluate between 200 and 300 early retirement cases every year. It is therefore a very limited number, given the number of people who have been granted early retirement. The proportion of early retirement is therefore very, very small. The low number should be seen in the light of the fact that early retirement can not just be granted today. It is no secret that this will only happen if the municipality considers that there is such a substantial and lasting reduction in working capacity that there is a need to grant a permanent public subsidy. It is clear from the rules that early retirement cannot be denied to persons who have reached the age of 60 unless they ask for it. When we talk about early retirement pension granted in accordance with the rules which entered into force on or after 1 January 2003, the municipality may decide to waive early retirement if there has been a significant improvement in the ability to work. The improvement must be so great that the early retirement pensionist can continue to be self-supporting by means of income-generating work. But small jobs in a few hours, as I said just now, can in no way give rise to the suspension of early retirement. But if, contrary to expectations, an early-retirement worker gets so much better that he or she can do ordinary work or work on a larger scale, then the whole basis for receiving early-retirement benefits is not there. It is, in essence, gratifying if you get well and are able to work, and then I think it is both right and proper that early retirement can be denied. In principle, it is wrong to give people a guarantee that they always have the right to a high permanent public subsidy if it turns out later that they no longer need it and can support themselves. It's basically common sense in my world. Let me also say a few words about old arrangements. It is true that a guarantee of entitlement to early retirement was introduced for early retirement pensioners who were granted early retirement under the old scheme before 2003, which therefore cannot be denied. The guarantee of entitlement to early retirement was introduced at a time when the old early retirement scheme was no longer available and it was therefore less problematic to introduce it for this limited group. In addition, this scheme should be seen in the light of the fact that it was a completely different set of rules. An early retirement pension could be granted by reducing working capacity less than is currently required. It was therefore right to expect that there could be people in this group of early retirement who had a greater residual capacity to work to enable them to work. But that is no longer the case. The low number of cancellations also shows that the early retirement rules are working as intended. The people who receive early retirement are in need of it because they have a substantial and lasting reduced working capacity and cannot support themselves. I certainly hope that it is not the case that there are early retirement workers who fail to use their modest ability to work because they fear that they may lose their early retirement pension. But if that is the case, of course that is something we need to be aware of. No one should fear that they can just so lose their early retirement pension and certainly not when it only happens very rarely. In addition, I would also like to point out today that the rules provide an opportunity to make early retirement dormant. This means that the pension payment is put on standby or pause if you have to stick to the Danish word • if the pensioner has an income for a longer period of time from work that can ensure the person's support. The aim is to support early retirement's attempts to get to work, but there is a dependency to fall back on if the attempt to get to work fails. So there is, of course, an opportunity for those early retirement workers who would like to try harder with a more active everyday life and employment without excluding early retirement. Let me now turn also to the reasons used by the Alternative and Enhedslisten to argue that early retirement should be a permanent right. Firstly, the proposers argue that there are, in particular, many highly educated people who are afraid of having their pensions withdrawn even by a few hours of employment. As I have made clear, it is simply not right that early retirement can be denied by a few hours of employment. So whatever training background you have, an early retirement pension cannot be denied by a few hours of employment. Nor am I aware that this would be a particular problem for highly educated people. Nor do I accept the argument that it is problematic that there are possibilities of interpretation, in terms of what it means to have regained the ability to work and how the lasting ability to work is assessed. This is basically the same estimate that the municipality has to make when granting early retirement, so it is not difficult to base the same considerations on if the early retirement pension is to be withdrawn. In this connection, I can inform you that in 2005 the Ankestyrelsen took a decision in principle which describes two cases in which the Ankestyrelsen upheld the fact that it was right to dismiss the early retirement pension. In one case, the person concerned had been in regular employment for 27-29 hours a week over the last three years. In the second case, the person concerned had worked in a flex job 24-25 hours a week for the last 3 years. If early retirement had not been possible, those concerned could, regardless of a high working capacity, at any time have quit their jobs and go straight back on early retirement. As responsible minister, I am very pleased that there is no such possibility. I think it makes sense that there is an opportunity to make early retirement resting, so that an early retirement worker who gets better has the opportunity to support himself in a job without risking losing his pension. In other words, if you fail to do so, you can get your early retirement pension back. On the other hand, if the person concerned is able to support himself permanently at work, then the basis for early retirement is simply not present. I therefore think it is a good thing that the municipalities have an obligation to ensure on an ongoing basis that those who have been granted an early retirement pension continue to fulfil the conditions for the pension awarded. The government's objective is clear: that as many as possible should contribute to the labour market with the resources that are now available. We should not use tax dollars to support people who are able to support themselves, and therefore the government cannot support this proposal that we are discussing today. I think it undermines confidence in the public service system if people who can work and support themselves can raise a high pension year after year. And everything else will just go beyond the cohesion that is so important in Denmark that one is also willing to pay a high tax to our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104057	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104104	Thank you for your speech, which was, after all, filled with many fair points and attitudes, perhaps just except for the fact that the Alternative and Enhedslisten believe that there are too many people on early retirement. But what we are dealing with here is that some people feel better about early retirement, and that is where we want them to come into society. We want them to enter the workplace and generate activity, etc., and it turns out when we talk to organisations that are trying to help early retirement workers get jobs or to get into small job openings, etc., that there is a strong fear of even having the courage to join anything, perhaps because it has taken so long to get its early retirement. So when we get confirmation that it is quite a lot of people who actually stay out of the opportunity to contribute to the community because they are afraid of having their early retirement pension withdrawn, and if it is true that it means that we can get more people into the community and generate more activity and save money on guaranteeing them that if they do not succeed in joining the community, then they can still get back on their early retirement, that is to say, if that is so, why not just say that we will do so, we will then create that activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104226	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104227	At once, it got better with it, as Mr. Torsten Gejl says. Because if what is demanded is to understand the rules to a greater extent, because there are many who are worried about what the rules are, then perhaps that is where we have to take action, and then perhaps it is just as violent enough to make a resolution, but I do not want to interfere with that. For the good thing about democracy is that, fortunately, you have to come up there and discuss what the Danish Parliament wants to do. But I do believe that the committee procedure should be used to look at how we could tell more about the rules that exist. For it is clear that if there is someone who has a feeling that is wrong or has a knowledge that is not right, then I am also quite open to being more supportive of what we fortunately agree, namely that people who can must of course contribute. So that's where I think we should try to look at how we might be able to support more of this knowledge spreading, and I'd love to do that. It is also in my own interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104326	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104328	I would consider that a small step forward. Because it is very, very incalculable for people whether they will have their early retirement pension withdrawn if they leave it rest and spend that time contributing to society. So it will certainly be an improvement. But I do believe that if we remove all the administration and this thing that you can let it rest, and this is that you might get it taken away, it's a lot of administration, and lots of power is being spent on it, so if we remove it, then I am convinced that it will generate more activity in society and that it will bring more people into the working community. Because I've been talking to these organizations that say the problem is so big. So we recognise that there is a small improvement, and we actually do a lot of that. But let's get rid of this so that more people can contribute to society, and then let's be a little undogmatic about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104421	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104422	Well, it started as well as it did, and then Mr. Knox showed up. Torsten Gejl to say that this was a small step forward. No, there is a very great deal of progress with the extended hand that has come from the Minister. Why is it a good idea for people to be deprived of their early retirement pension? That's a question you might ask. Is it because you want to attack people? Oh, I can give you a pretty banal example. If we now look at the cases that have taken place about whether there have potentially been early retirement workers who have been in Syria and fought side by side with ISIL, then I will never be able to accept that those people should have it as a permanent right. So this is precisely to ensure that there are people who either get better or who, unfortunately, have come to an early retirement pension on a basis that cannot be accepted, so there must also be an opportunity to be able to sanction it and to ensure that you do not have the early retirement pension that you have been granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104516	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104522	Thank you. My question to the Minister may be more about understanding, because I have been asked a question by someone who has been granted early retirement under the new rules from 2013 when they came into force. It's about making the pension resting. He has been told that if he wants to be approved for flex jobs instead of early retirement, he may be in danger of losing early retirement before he may have been approved for flex jobs. Is it not possible that the Minister may be able to send a note and describe what opportunities one has as an early retirement to be approved for a flexible job so that one can get back into the labour market? I do not expect the Minister to be able to respond to this right now, but that he can send a note and describe what rights there are. Because if they go and are afraid of losing early retirement, if it fails with the flex job and the like, then they may not get started trying to get into the labour market. And there are some who feel better when they calm down. Could the Minister describe what opportunities there are for moving from early retirement to flexible jobs and being approved for that, and what rights do they have, even if it fails? It could be that you could keep the early retirement until everything was in place and you were sure you had a flex job and everything. Could the Minister describe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104654	I think that is a very relevant issue. I believe that, in the light of this, I should like to write a slightly more detailed note on the state of the pension system, and how and how the opportunities and rights are there, in order to meet both the part which is concerned with flexible jobs, but also, for that matter, with what Mr. Torsten Gejl said that you can also use it to perhaps get a more up-to-date knowledge. I can then also consider this, and this can also be done during the committee procedure to look at how we can more offensively explain these rules. Because there is no doubt that there can still be problems with the understanding and interpretation of these rules, and I have the same interest in the fact that as many people as possible who can contribute are not afraid to contribute, but that they are doing so. And, of course, they must know the rules under which they operate, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104746	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104750	Thank you. It's kind of on the same street as that, sir. Bent Bøgsted asks. In his speech, the Minister presents it as if the possibility already exists in the law, because one can make one's early retirement resting. I would just like to ask the Minister: what is the difference between the current rules and now, of course, we are talking about early retirement pensioners who have been granted early retirement after 2003 and the motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten and the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104828	I think that I have explained this in great detail in my answer of 5-7 minutes, examining why I think that what Enhedslisten and the Alternative have put forward in their proposals is wrong. So I simply do not understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104844	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104845	It may well be that I have not understood the presentation by the Minister as a whole, but I just understood the Minister's reference to the fact that there is, of course, an opportunity to rest his early retirement pension. If we look at the rules for those who have an early retirement pension from before 2003, we can see that it cannot, if you do so, lead to early retirement being denied, as I understand those rules. But now we are talking about the rules after 2003. It is clear that if the possibility exists in the law in advance, there is no reason to maintain the proposal, so I would just like to ask the Minister: what is the difference between the applicable law for the group we are talking about and the proposal that we are helping to put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511104930	After all, I used a great deal of effort to explain the difference between the old system and what there is a political majority in favour of in relation to the new set of rules. So there is, of course, a difference between how you are now facing the future and what it was like before 2003. But I think I must ask Finn Sørensen to put that question precisely in writing, because I have been so confused at a higher level since I had a dialogue with Mr Sørensen earlier. Torsten Gejl, where I thought I understood what the proposal was about, and that's how I answered Torsten Gejl. I may have misunderstood, but it certainly does not change the attitude of the government, namely that we are opposed to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105012	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the Minister, and that is the rapporteur's line. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105021	It is extremely important for the Social Democratic Party that, if one's ability to work is so significantly reduced that it is expected to be permanent, one should of course be able to qualify for an early retirement pension. It is important to give these people a security in their support so that they can have peace for themselves and use the peace that they now need in the situation they are in. I also believe that all people are best placed to have a link with the labour market if they can stick to it. Having something to stand up to, being part of a community at work, having colleagues and feeling that you make a difference, I think is super important for us people. But it is clear that it must not make you sicker, and if you cannot work at all, you should of course not. Therefore, the way in which early retirement is done is also very good, and that means that if you never get better and do not get an improved working capacity, you will remain on early retirement. But if you feel better about what happens to quite a few people, why not have the opportunity to get to work? However, this improvement must be so great that one can be reasonably self-sufficient, and here we are not talking, as the Minister said, in very few hours. Here you have the possibility of a resting early retirement pension, where you can get back on early retirement immediately, if you do not manage to get into the labour market in a satisfactory way and you feel really bad about it. The unitary list and the alternative will have the grant of early retirement to be a permanent right which the municipalities cannot disclaim from early retirement. Firstly, I do not understand why people should be on this scheme if they can work so hard that they can be self-supporting. Secondly, it might be quite interesting to hear whether the people who have actually come from early retirement and in work are not very satisfied with it. On the other hand, I do not know whether there are in fact bad examples in this area, as Mr. Torsten Gejl said, and that there are some who have been caught. We have seen that before in this system in the municipalities. But since we are now going to evaluate this system and discuss it later in the conciliation circle, I expect these things to come out if there is a problem. So with these words we do not support the proposal, but I would like once again to commend the two parties for taking the debate, because it is always extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105243	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105248	Thank you for that praise and thank you for a good speech. We agree that some people are getting better after receiving their early retirement. It may take a few years, it most often does, but the fact that you get peace and quiet and treatment means that there are some who get better. There are many, at least in the organisations representing early retirement, with whom we have talked, who say that people are terrified of showing any initiative. It has taken them so long to get this early retirement pension and they are very unclear whether they will get it dismissed if they show initiative. Does the rapporteur have any ideas or suggestions as to how we are going to get back to those who, contrary to expectations, are going to get better into the Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105339	The advantage of having such matters as this motion for a resolution is that we are again trying to get to grips with it, even though we have been through it several times and there you do have the opportunity today, if you can see that they want to get closer to the labour market, to get into this. If it turns out they can't, they can get the early retirement pension back without having to go through this whole mill. I simply think what the Minister said about is that it is a question of giving better information to these people, the actors, the municipalities, or what do I know, so they are aware that this possibility is there. Too many of them, like Mr. Torsten Gejl is talking about, I think I might be able to use this and get under these rules on resting pensions, and if it turned out they could, I'm not a second in doubt that maybe that was the way forward for them. Because we agree that if they can enter the labour market, it is best for them, and then we must try. And there I think we have an arrangement here that can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105437	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105438	Does the rapporteur not feel a little temptation to say: now we are simply guaranteeing these people a guaranteed early retirement pension for the rest of their lives; we are dropping the administration of the resting pension; we are dropping the administration, which results from the fact that the municipality will then have to assess whether they should be deprived of the pension; we are removing all that? This is likely to give more activity and bring more into the labour market. Is the rapporteur not a little tempted to try that solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105517	No, in fact I am not, because I take the view that if you come from early retirement and into the labour market, because you can actually stick to it, it is the very best thing for the individual, for the family and for society. After all, in 2016, ten people entered the labour market. If the ten people really had a really good life and they would not have had it if we had chosen the system that the alternative wanted, the ten people would not have come closer to the labour market and would not have had a better life in this way. So, no, actually, I'm not tempted by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105547	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105549	Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for the roses in the end. I accept them, and it is not just because it is nice to have roses, but because I see it as such that the rapporteur thinks that there is a serious problem that we must address. In 2010 the Radicals, the Social Democratic Party and the SF came up with a proposal to be disfellowshipped from the labour market. In that paper there was a proposal for an early retirement certificate, which was precisely about the fact that when people got an early retirement pension, they had to have a certificate, just like you get an early retirement certificate. And the purpose of that proof was precisely to give people the chance, so that without fear of losing their pension they could begin to try their way into the labour market, perhaps not full-time in the first place, but thus try rather than see how far the forces were reaching, but that they could fall back on early retirement if it turned out that they did not succeed. That is what the Alternative and Enhedslisten are proposing today. So what does a good Social Democrat say about the excellent proposal that Mrs Mette Frederiksen made back then? You're good if you think it's a good idea, right? But what does the rapporteur say about this? Why not just accept it, because that is what we are proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105714	It is a great credit that Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks I'm a good social democrat. I actually think so myself. And as rapporteur and good social democrat, I would also like to reply to that. I just have to say that a lot has happened since 2010. There are, among other things: We have subsequently made a reform of the early retirement scheme and the flex-job scheme which has begun to work. We see that there will be fewer early retirement and more people will get a flex job and that there will be fewer flex jobs who are unemployed. So it's starting to work. But the rapporteur has never heard me stand here praising it to the clouds, because there are many things that do not work and we have to look at them. So what has happened since 2010 is, in addition to the fact that seven years have passed, that we have actually carried out a reform which we are now following to the door and which, of course, is what we are going to go hard on. That is also what we changed, and I think we did in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105807	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105808	Thank you. It could be tempting to use the few seconds for a major discussion on the early retirement reform, but that was not my purpose. I just reminded you that the Social Democratic Party, together with the Radicals and the SF, had a proposal for an early retirement certificate which had exactly the same purpose as the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are trying to promote today, namely to give pensioners the security that allows them to try their way into the labour market, to take an education or whatever it might be. I would just like to ask: what has happened to the problem which means that the rapporteur can no longer support such a principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105847	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105849	But that is just the same question, and then you get the same answer: seven years have passed and we have made a reform that we will follow to the end. However, I would like to say that I also heard the rapporteur ask the Minister whether he could tell the difference between the proposal put forward by the Alternative and Enhedslisten and the current rules. And when sir... Finn Sørensen asks, isn't it, because Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen himself has a hard time knowing the difference. Then I am surprised that such a proposal is being put forward when one considers that there is no difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511105922	Thank you for that, President. I think it is very good that this proposal is being put forward, because in the Danish People's Party we agree that there are issues and that it is difficult for the individual early retirementist to understand the rules, but also that there may be differences between municipalities as to how to interpret it. That is also why I asked the Minister if we could clarify those rules. A current example I have is one who has questioned in the municipality and is on early retirement after the new scheme, here after 2012, 2013. If he has to get away from early retirement and maybe have a flex job instead of what he really wants, because he has gotten a little better after he has been granted an early retirement pension, he can only get it if he starts with one year in early retirement pay subsidies, and then he must have assessed his case every year. Instead, one could say that early retirement rested, and then he gets started with a flex job, i.e. how many hours he can have, and then only when he gets the flex job, he can say that okay, then I'd like to skip the early retirement pension. That's what he really wants. He wants to get away from early retirement and have a flex job instead. But he can only be considered if he starts 1 year with wage subsidies for early retirement, and then it has to be assessed every year. I think the Minister should take a look at that if the Minister would listen rather than talk to my colleague. It is, of course, those who are in the conciliation circle on early retirement that have to rectify the rules. And if the minister heard that, then an early-retirement worker who would like to do flex jobs has been told that he has to start 1 year in wage subsidies... he has been told by the municipality... and then he has to have the case assessed every year, and then he can see when you can then perhaps consider getting a clarification for a flex job. It's untenable. These are the rules that have been introduced. At least that's the way the municipality interprets it. What is so glaring is that there is no real clarity about that matter. But I'll send that e-mail to the minister, so the minister has the problems that are, all up to date. Because there is no doubt that, as I see it and as I have heard it, there are early retirement pensioners who have improved and who want to get away from the system. That is also what I understand from the authors of the motion for a resolution. But they don't dare, because they're afraid of what happens if they can't handle it anyway. There it is, as has been said, that you can make the pension resting, but if it is not the rules that the municipality is going to follow here is an example then they must start with wage subsidies, and then their cases must be assessed every year instead of waiting until there is clarification about flex jobs. That's the way we're going. In this context, I would also like to say to the authors that we in the Danish People's Party are not voting in favour of the proposal here, but that we agree that there are some problems and we would like clarification from the Ministry on these problems, in other words the possibility of moving from early retirement to a flexible job, or whatever you have, without getting caught. If that is not satisfactory, we are also ready to come back and look at it again. But right here today we cannot support the proposal. I understand perfectly well that you should not be able to lose your early retirement pension. However, if someone has got the early retirement pension on the wrong basis, then we also think it should be the case that the early retirement pension can be withdrawn again. However, it should not affect those who have actually received an early retirement pension and are struggling to return. They must also be given the opportunity to come back, but this must be done with the rules that exist today without having to have threats from the municipality that they may lose early retirement. One must be able to say that as long as you are through that clarification, your pension is resting, and you are sure to get the early retirement pension again without having to assess whether you are now entitled to early retirement. You got started with that clarification for a flex job. It is, of course, the case that if someone takes a job and has a high income, then we also think it is fair enough that you should not, of course, have an early retirement pension. However, we would like to wait for what the Minister has actually promised from the platform, so to give an explanation of how the rules on resting pensions and the possibility of moving to flexible jobs are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110416	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110419	Thank you for an excellent post. Even though Mr. Bent Bøgsted today is not ready to vote in favour, I would actually like to sign that the rapporteur has really, really put himself into this and found examples and work for the sake of early retirement and their ability to get back into the labour market. I would like to give you a very, very concrete example, and I would say that if we manage to get this right, so that we do not have to get into the situation where we barely dare to approach a job, a flex job, because we are afraid that early retirement is going before we barely have it, then I really think that the debate we have today has given value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110501	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110503	I can only agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110507	Then there are no more comments. There's a new rapporteur, and that's sir. Klaus Markussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511110519	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, the first in a series of interesting proposals today, which I look forward to addressing. The rapporteurs before me have, of course, examined a great deal of the specific content, so I will concentrate on why the Left does not support the proposal, and it is actually based on a number of very fundamental reasons, because the proposal opposes the quite clear position of the Left that taxpayers should not pay for people who can support themselves to remain on passive support. I am pleased to read that in the written submission the proposers indicate that it is good if early retirement can find their way back into the labour market if their condition improves significantly. Where the movie breaks for me is when we talk about making it a permanent right. Fortunately, early retirement can experience an improvement in their health which enables them to support themselves. So why should we keep people under the cap called early retirement? Instead, let us welcome the fact that some early retirement workers are able to work and to support themselves. The right to withdraw early retirement, if the ability to work significantly improves, is not about chasing early retirement. It is about keeping the door open and thus keeping the future possibilities open. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we do not give up on people. Therefore, we should not unduly park people on passive services if they can be part of the working community. For the same reason, we should not rule out the possibility of an early retirement worker finding his way back into the labour market if he returns to work. That is why I think it is sensible, and above all responsible, for municipalities to be able to withdraw early retirement if the situation changes. An early retirement pension granted must not prevent people from becoming part of the working community if the former early retirement worker can continue to be self-supporting. As a result, the basis for the early retirement pension granted has also changed. Yesterday we became so wiser about how many early retirement pensioners have actually experienced their early retirement, because fortunately health has improved. Although the authors of the proposals state that very few people today will end up with early retirement against their will, it is a little hollow when the proposal makes it a problem that the municipalities can withdraw early retirement if the ability to work is significantly improved when we talk about a range of 1 to 15 people per year since 2003. Even more difficult it will be to understand the authors of the proposals, given how many early retirement cases are reviewed annually between 200 and 300 years, and I actually read this as an indication that the rules we have on early retirement are working as intended. The authors then say that early retirement pensioners fear for their benefits, but then I have to say that there is no question that a municipality can simply withdraw early retirement. The decision must be based on a concrete and individual overall assessment of whether the pensioner has been able to carry out specific specified work functions and thereby continuously obtain income for self-employment. So it is a question of the municipality being able, on the basis of thorough investigation, to assess whether the citizen is able to support himself in full or in part. I therefore believe that such a thorough study should not give rise to the fears expressed by the authors of the motion for a resolution. This isn't about chasing early retirement. It is a question of the municipality having a concrete tool for those early retirement workers who, contrary to expectations, can support themselves and thus become part of the working community. This is an opportunity that we must preserve, and we should not forget that the existing rules provide for the possibility of a resting pension, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, where early retirement is paused if it is the case that, for a long period, the citizen has income from work. Here the resting pension acts as a safety net if the attempt to work fails. This is a very good opportunity which supports the idea that early retirement can try to get back to work. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111025	I should like to make a brief comment. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111029	Thanks for the speech. I think the rapporteur makes it sound as if these ten people who have been denied their early retirement in 2016 would have been on early retirement if they had had the opportunity. Could it not easily be imagined that these people are in any case among those who would have gone out on the labour market even if they could have left?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111105	You can imagine a lot of things. But for me and the Left, it is important not to give up on people. And that is why we think it is really important that the municipality has the opportunity that exists today to withdraw early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111124	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111126	I will not go into giving up; we could never dream of that, and setting people free is not the same as giving them up. With this proposal, we're only trying to get people into the labour market and create activity and get people back into life, life and community. That's only why we put it forward. And there's a lot of people who don't have the guts to bid. This is what we hear from organisations such as the United States and Japan. the job bank. now and other organizations who say: People simply dare not contribute anything at all. If that is the case, does the rapporteur really believe that the rules are working perfectly as intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111211	Thank you. I think it was an important and good response that the Minister for Employment came with here from the platform earlier during the discussion of this proposal, that is to say to help clarify the rules. I fully acknowledge that if there are doubts and there are grounds for fear, then the solution is not necessarily to put forward all kinds of legislative proposals or, for that matter, to support this motion for a resolution. If we can help clarify the rules in any way, that is fine, and I think several people have indicated that they are willing to do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111259	Thank you. And then there is a new rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111308	Thank you. I think we should look a little bit at what is driving such a proposal forward. It is driven by requests from citizens who are on early retirement and who do not just have the ability to work full-time and thus support themselves. But they want to get away from the situation of being on early retirement. To see if they can do that, they need security. Because how do you investigate? After all, it is not possible to be on early retirement on one day and declared totally unfit to work, because it is a criterion and then to jump into the labour market and work full-time. No, you have to have the opportunity to try out with a few hours, and that's the security these people want. I'm really surprised that the government in particular, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen was a little more open in his argument, and Left so harshly rejects it. Because it has been their main argument in countless reforms that it is important that people who can work a few hours should be given the opportunity to do so. At the same time, it is said that the aim is to bring people back into the labour market, and that is an objective we all agree on, in other words, to the extent that it can be done in respect of the opportunities of the citizens. That is what brings out such a proposal, and then I think it is strange to be faced with the fact that there are probably some who go and tuck themselves in and that it cannot be right and come up and come down here. The figures we have received about how few people are denied early retirement tell us a little about how small that problem is. And I think there is another problem: people's security in trying to get away from early retirement and support themselves, and that should count much more. You can always find one or two, and you've always been able to do that. But the vast majority are so sad to have lost their ability to work and could not get back into the labour market. So in a situation where everyone talks about it, why isn't one much more positive? The Minister then refers to it here with resting early retirement, and there we simply have to find out what the possibilities for it really are. As far as I can understand, sir. Bent Bøgsted, he therefore has concrete examples of the way in which the rules, or at least the way in which the municipalities administer them, stand in the way of early retirement for citizens to start trying to get into the labour market. I'm not an expert on those rules. That is why I asked the Minister. Leif Lahn Jensen. Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked if I knew exactly what the consequences were, because I would have told you. As we have had before us today, I have been in doubt about what the difference really is, apart from the point that we want to retain the right to take early retirement from people. So what is actually the difference between the positive interpretation of the resting pension and what is proposed here? We must have dug that up in the committee work. I'm afraid the difference is that in order for the pension to be made resting and so has been argued... it requires that you can work something that looks like full time. This is not particularly appropriate if people want to stimulate entry into the labour market. In relation to this, it has to be said that the municipalities must have the opportunity to exclude people from early retirement, yes, and the municipalities must decide whether it can be resting. It's the municipality that decides on it. It's not the citizen who decides it, it's the municipality. People just generally do not have good experiences with the ability and ability of municipalities to assess the working capacity of sick people, and that is something that also drives the work behind such a proposal here. Finally, I would like to say that there is another specific reason why a great many early retirement pensioners are concerned and that those who want to work would like such an early retirement certificate. After all, it is the Danish Employers' Association's repeated proposal that everyone who is on early retirement and has been awarded it after 2013 should be re-examined. Because are they really sick enough to get early retirement? It is also a sounding board for the discussion we have here today. But I look forward to the work of the committee and, at least, to finding out what the rules are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111813	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511111820	Thank you. When the welfare state can economically grow exponentially for decades without people experiencing better protection for the weakest, it is precisely because of the thinking expressed by this proposal. Early retirement is meant as an offer to those who cannot and where the chance of improvement is small, but if it happens sometimes that a person's state of health improves significantly or you find that a person has been granted an early retirement pension on the wrong basis, then we think it is only fair that you can remove the right again. Our society cannot function unless the right to help the weak is linked to the obligation to support itself for all those who can. In relation to the debate that has taken place in the past, I would like to say that I am also looking forward to having the document promised by the Minister on the rules so that they can be clarified. I also think it is interesting in committee to discuss whether it is clear enough for everyone what the rules are, because I think that the proposers have a point in that one should, of course, be able to approach the labour market, but I do not believe that the solution is to give a right to permanent early retirement. However, I would very much like to work with the proposers of the next committee to look at how we can work to get people closer to getting to work. In fact, I think it is a very good thing when people are denied their otherwise granted early retirement because it shows that they can work; that they can be part of the community that is going to work; that they can support themselves. That is something positive, it is not a punishment. So I would very much like to discuss how we can get more people over there and see if the proposers know if there are any people who would really like to start working a little bit. It may be a stepping stone to work more. I think that is relevant to get the drill out and get clarity about that, because that is of course not appropriate. We do not share in the Liberal Alliance the solution of granting a right to permanent early retirement, and that is why we do not support this proposal, but we are looking forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112045	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112049	Well, I actually think that sounds really good. Of course, I would have liked you to support the proposal. After all, it has been prepared because we are talking to organisations that advise early retirement workers, and they say: if you could only guarantee them their early retirement for the rest of your life, there would probably be fewer people who would be on early retirement and more who would enter the labour market. So the logic of that is that it will get more people into work and iron out a lot of administration and bureaucracy. Isn't that the right leg of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112127	I mean, I find it hard to understand that the right to a permanent benefit should cause more people to go to work, but I have not talked to the organisations, and I would very much like to learn more about what security can do, because that must be what it is all about. And if security can be established now, by being aware of what the rules are and how far one can go, that is, how much work one can take and when one is in the risk zone to remove one's dependency base, then it may be that that security is enough. Security does not just have to be a right to a lifelong, permanent early retirement. Of course, security can be many things, and let us look at how else we can provide security.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112218	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112228	Thank you. Sometimes one might be tempted to say when one is here in the series of speeches: I would like to say what the previous rapporteur said. And I will certainly be brief, because I very much agree with the comments made by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur on this resolution to grant early retirement as a permanent right, which means that it can never be denied. I feel like Mrs. Laura Lindahl. We cannot support this in the Radical Left, but of course we have a concern, if it is true, as the proposers say, that many early retirement workers do not dare to try employment. I heard the Minister say the same thing. This concern must be examined and looked at whether there are rules to be made clearer and whether the security that is needed can be made clearer for the municipalities and, of course, especially for those early retirement workers who actually want to try harder with employment. How are the rules made clear? Is it the intention that is also disseminated in the municipalities? After all, we are already in the process of discussing this and having discussed it on several occasions, both in the conciliation circle and here, and it is certain that we will also be working on it when, among other things, we are working on it. This reform has been evaluated, i.e. the early retirement reform. Overall, however, we believe that the possibilities are there. With the resting early retirement, you can try a few hours of work without losing your early retirement pension, and that is what is happening here, as far as I understand at least. Then you can fall back on early retirement if you can no longer do the job. I think it is very good that the Minister will make a note of what the context is actually in dormant early retirement. There were several rapporteurs in demand for clarity, and perhaps we can also discuss in committee whether there is some clarity missing here. I think that is quite relevant. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112506	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112509	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur. As I mentioned in my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, in 2010 the rapporteur's party helped to put forward a proposal for an early retirement certificate, and with the words and content that it had when it was put forward, it was in principle the same as what Enhedslisten and the Alternative are proposing here. So I guess it can't be in principle. So why can't you go into that idea today when you could in 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112553	I wasn't part of those discussions, so I haven't dug myself very far into what happened in 2010. However, as I understand it, this is actually the same thing we are discussing here: how to give people security, how to give people the feeling that there is security, and that is what the reform that has come up since then and the right to have a resting early retirement has ensured, I believe. But if that is not the opinion of the citizens referred to by the authors of the motion for a resolution, then that is where we must take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112637	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112638	As far as I am aware, the possibility of making early retirement dormant also existed at that time, i.e. in 2010. It's an old rule. So it was more of a question of opinion. In other words, if the rapporteur's party has been involved in proposing the introduction of an early retirement pension, then there is the fact that people will then have the security that they can in any case fall back on their early retirement pension. No mention was made of the fact that it should be possible to deny it to them. So, in principle, as the rapporteur does today, it should not be. So I just ask: what has happened with regard to the views on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112723	I think it is admirable of the rapporteur, as well as trying to make it so that there is a distinction. I don't see it at all. I really think that this is exactly the same matter, namely how we ensure security. But that does not mean that it is a permanent right to early retirement if you are able to work and support yourself fully. I do not see a contradiction in that at all, and I cannot imagine it, but I do not know that it has been expressed that way seven years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112758	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112759	Thank you for a good speech, which I think sought out in this proposal, and also thank you for the desire to try to clarify it here at least. I guess we'll know what's up and down. But I think that the dilemma we are discussing is becoming increasingly clear to me. What if offering people a lifelong early retirement pension would mean that they are using it to a lesser extent and to a greater extent? Well, that's an interesting dilemma. So I really want to ask it as a question. If giving early retirement as a permanent right would bring more people away from early retirement and into the labour market, should we do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112843	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112844	I think it is so commendable to take the discussion from here, and this could be extended to a lot of different things in our society. After all, there is both a principle and a political direction and perhaps even some ideology in it. It's rare for me to pull those things out of my bag, but I think there is. For me in the Radical Left, the fundamental question is what works best. How do we get the most dynamic society where most people think they can contribute? Of course, it is both about the people who have challenges and are on public support, but want to work a few hours, but it is also about everyone else. What is one's view of which society best makes one also feel that it is fair and that one contributes, for example. His treasures?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112944	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. As the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party is not present, it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511112955	Thank you. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party want those people in our society who are not able to support themselves or fend for themselves to have a decent basis of living and also to feel secure in their lives. But it is also important for us that those who can support themselves should also support themselves. After all, the reasons for granting early retirement have changed a little over time and, in the past, where it was largely citizens who were suffering from hard physical work, there is at least now a larger proportion of early retirement pension due to mental illness. Fortunately, there is a lot going on both in the health sector and in the field of technological development and development in the labour market, which means that some of these citizens, who in the past could not in any way be expected to be able to enter the working community, will be able to contribute again. After all, the early retirement pension is granted as a starting point as a permanent benefit until retirement age, but there are, of course, people who will be able to reenter the labour market, even if it is just a small step at a time. The Conservative People's Party believes that it is important for each individual to have the opportunity to test his or her potential in the labour market, and that allows legislation as it is today, and therefore we see no reason to change it. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511113135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511113154	Thank you very much. After all, this is about the dilemma of possibly guaranteeing people a life-long early retirement in order to make them use it less. And if that's the way it is, I think we should do it. So today, my dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to decide that people who have taken early retirement can never have it taken away again. The idea is to give more people the opportunity to get back into the labour market, for example. flex jobs, part-time, yes, who knows if some will be able to take ordinary work along the way? Of course, it may sound a little backward to give people a guaranteed lifelong pension to get them back into the labour market, but the fact is that the fear of losing the pension prevents many early retirementists from ever thinking in that direction. It goes without saying that it is difficult to obtain an early retirement pension in Denmark, even if you do not have any significant ability to work. Therefore, it is often a huge relief when a sick and exposed citizen succeeds in getting his early retirement often after many years of job testing and resource development and investigation. Finally, a fixed benefit is guaranteed without anyone being able to force you to do anything and check that you do so, without administrative problems and without using economic incentives by cutting your income. But as the days and weeks go by, there are some who get better, both because they are freed from the pressure from the system and because the body and the psyche get calm and treatment. Therefore, there are also those who, in a way or in a way, develop their ability to participate more in the community, perhaps even in the labour market. And my experience is that the vast majority of people would very much like to contribute to the working community if they can in any way. It may be in the form of a part - time job, perhaps a flex job, some can take spare hours, others do volunteer work. The problem is that many early retirement workers are so afraid of losing their early retirement that they hardly dare show any initiative at all. It is here that, in the opinion of the Alternative, early retirement becomes too definitive, an end-point. We propose that early retirement should be made life-long without reservation and counterclaims once it is awarded. This means that an early retirement worker who has once been granted an early retirement pension can always fall back on it without any explanation or other formalities. This also means that early retirement pensioners who have improved and who want to do so must be able to take courses or training or entrepreneurship or get into flex jobs or other jobs without losing their early retirement. In the alternative, we are sure that a lifelong guarantee of early retirement will lead many early retirement workers to contribute to the community and to the labour market. Every time those people take a period on the labour market in e.g. flex jobs, we save their early retirement, and instead we get a tax contribution to social housing through their income. And we're not alone in this assumption. We have, of course, consulted some of the organisations working to get early retirement workers back on the labour market. www.jobbanken.nu. And if you get in a good mood to see how mentally vulnerable people find their way back into the labour market, then you have to look at their website. It is a strong and touching study of how to bring vulnerable and vulnerable people back into the working community, not least early retirement, which Jobbank helps back into job openings. When I mentioned at a meeting with them that I was going to table this resolution, which means that early retirement can look for work without fear of their retirement, they were incredibly excited. Pre-retirement pensioners in the scheme from 2003 onwards are very afraid of being disqualified from early retirement, and this prevents part of it from taking a job or working less hours before they might be able to. Indeed, it was only in 2003 that the possibility of a municipality withdrawing an early retirement pension was introduced if it considers that there has been an increase in working capacity. Now it is fair to say that a municipality can actually make an early retirement resting, as we have also discussed today, if a citizen has a period such as this. flex jobs. The only problem is that it can remove a citizen's early retirement if it considers that the citizen has sufficiently developed his or her ability to work. This is what scares early retirement workers who have improved, from entering and creating value in the community. And since it is even very difficult to find out how individual municipalities assess whether they can get their pension any longer at all, it prevents many early retirement workers from even trying to find working hours. Let us therefore give early retirement workers an optimal and positive incentive to contribute to the labour market if they have improved. Let us give them an incentive to improve their skills by helping to start new businesses if they can. We admit that this will mean that some people will keep their early retirement pension where they would have been denied it before, but that is very, very few. In 2016, it was ten people. If we adopt such a law, the same ten people will probably still be in work, since it is in their nature that they have regained their ability to work and yet have entered the labour market. So I have my doubts as to whether this legislation entails any cost at all. On the other hand, I am sure that it will generate income, not least in saved administration, because the municipalities will be free from having to make complicated assessments as to whether an early retirement worker who has tried to do some work should be deprived of his early retirement pension, let alone the economic activity that it will generate, that early retirement pensioners who are getting better can at all seek different kinds of work and contribute to the labour market. In addition, of course, there is the human gain for any early retirement worker who has regained some of his ability to work and can again be pleased to contribute to the working community. I would like to thank you for the debate. In fact, I think that all parties have taken this very seriously and put themselves into it very carefully. I think that the help that has been given by the Minister to make this clear so that people know how it is connected and thus to counteract some of the fears that keep some from the labour market is actually a very good hand-out. I also think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted's proposal that we should ensure that people have a good permanent income, for example. in a flexible job, before we take their early retirement, is extremely important. So today's intention has been to present, discuss and print this proposal. I certainly did not expect it to be adopted today, but I really hope that the conciliation parties behind the early and flex-job reform will take it into the idea bank and imagine it and be a little out of date and say: if it turns out that people are actually more involved in the labour market if they are guaranteed a life-long early retirement, that must be what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511113828	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511113847	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511113857	Thank you for that, and also at the start of this debate a thank you for the very important proposal, I think that has been made. It is a motion for a resolution which has been tabled before but which is now being retabled in the parliamentary assembly we are in now. When examining the previous resolution, a majority, of which SF was part, agreed to give priority to the problem of the lack of the right to grief leave for fathers and co-mothers when an agreement was to be reached on the subsequent Finance Act, which was the Finance Act for 2016. In the meantime, since this resolution was dealt with for the first time, and until we deal with this motion for a resolution, there has been a parliamentary election and a new government has emerged. I therefore think it is important to note that the conclusion of the discussion of B 51 has unfortunately not yet led to a change in the rules. However, I firmly believe that the lack of change is not due to a lack of sympathy for the proposers' desire to introduce equal access to parental leave for both parents or co-mothers. That is why I think it is vital that we can now hopefully, in agreement here in Parliament, promote what has been set aside for this motion for a resolution which we are discussing here today. I think we all agree that losing an infant is terrible and unbearable both for the child's mother and the child's father. For my part, I can say that I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal we are discussing here today, and precisely because it has been dealt with in the past, in other words two years ago, without any progress being made on this matter, it is also essential that we now send out a clear signal that a broad majority of the Folketing would like to go further. After all, the law of childbirth, as it is today, does not reflect that parents are equally affected by the grief of losing an infant. That is why, as I said, I agree with the intention. What I think should be discussed, and that is also why the government, in its present form, cannot support it immediately, is the issue of funding. I fully agree with what is also stated in the motion for a resolution that the proposers want it to be financed from the rate pool, but I would like to read out the figures which are also willing to discuss other funding. I think this matter is so important, but also so crucial that it should not be a pool of rates. There should be nothing temporary in it. There is a need for firm and lasting funding. What does that mean? That means, of course, that I think that the parties that are handing each other over to support this proposal, in the context of the Financial Act to be made for 2018, must ensure that a partial agreement is made so that the funds that this might cost, namely around 27 million. kr., can be found through permanent funding. That is why I am also suggesting that during the committee procedure, which unfortunately I am not a part of, but of which the party of which I am a member, we can agree on a joint report, which then lays the foundations for further work. We must both send out a signal that we will find the money in a cross-border agreement in connection with a future financial law, but also at the same time say that we would like it to be implemented as soon as possible once the funding has been provided. In other words, it must be a legislative proposal that can be put forward in the next session of the European Parliament. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF for the fact that this proposal is now under discussion and that, hopefully, by a broad majority here in Parliament, we can make a lasting solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511114316	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511114326	It is a tragedy that affects a family when you lose an infant, and that is why we also have protection in our maternity legislation. The only problem is that there are serious gaps in current legislation. As it is today, mothers are entitled to 14 weeks' leave when parents lose an infant. The father only gets his two-week earmarked maternity leave. This means that if the child dies at birth, the father is entitled to two weeks' leave. If the child dies when the child is 2 weeks old or later, Dad gets nothing. Then Dad's going to work while Mom's left alone at home with the grief. And I want Dad to act like nothing's happened. That is simply not fair, and that is what we hear from the parents who have experienced this tragedy, namely how hard it hits the family at all and how it only exacerbates the grief and pain that the danger is forced to work and has to go there and grieve knowing that his wife sits alone at home crying. The consequence is that the grief is not properly processed and that the fathers must report ill. Grief is not a disease, grief is natural, but it can become a disease if we do not look after each other properly. That is why it is common sense that Father should be given the same right as Mother, that both of them should be allowed to deal with grief, that they should be allowed to do so together, and that together they should be able to get out on the other side and hopefully move on well in life. There was a majority in favour of this proposal when I myself was rapporteur on it in 2015, but we live in a democracy and unfortunately the majority fell when the government then fell. But now I can hear from the hand-out coming from the Minister for Employment and the invitation that we can solve this problem together, that there are really positive notes. I don't want to hide the fact that it makes me very happy that there's that handshake. It is a matter that I personally am passionate about, and it is really such a matter here that reminds me why I have gone into politics and why you spend your days and nights on this. This is a matter in which we can make a difference, where we can help and support people who so much need our support, and that is what we are here for: finding common solutions, good solutions that benefit the people affected by the law. This matter is simply too important for political struggles or teasing. There is one hundred percent support from the Social Democratic Party for us to solve this together, and we sign for the support of the government. Let's solve this together and get the funding straightened out. And I have no doubt that we will get it sorted out with the new reports that have come from here from the platform. That's really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511114646	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511114652	Thank you. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. It's a huge grief when, as parents, you lose a child, no matter what age the child is. This proposal deals with infant death and the equivalence of parents so that they can have 14 weeks' leave in connection with the death of an infant. This is an important issue that we have discussed before, even under the previous government, but which we have not resolved. I found a previous question from the Ministry of Gender Equality in 2014, which was also, as it were, intended to find a solution in the Finance Act, but it is an issue that has not been resolved and therefore it is good that we can jointly resolve it today. The legislation we have today serves the mother, who has 14 weeks' absence, while the danger only has 14 days. The Danish People's Party considers it both fair and fair to equate parents so that they have equal opportunities and, at least, a choice to take a leave, a real gender equality in this area. There are different ways to deal with grief, and there is no form for it. There is nothing more right than anything else, and it is very different what the individual family needs in the grief they face. Therefore, it is also important that we respect parents' choices, whatever they choose, in relation to the use of their grief leave. While I was preparing for this debate today, I found a speech from a father and I would like to read out some of the things the danger has written in the speech in Politiken on 29 April. It starts with the headline: "Father of stillborn: When a child dies, the danger is left in the lurch by the system and by other men." I'm afraid I'm not gonna find a heart either. That sentence is still the first thing I hear when I close my eyes. I myself sat stoned and stared at the little screen in the white scan room in the Rigshospitalet. Time had stopped. I kept staring at the goddamn screen in the belief that Liv's fine little heart would soon show up and beat up merry as it had done so often before. It had to be a mistake. I quote from the text further down: "I was still staring at the screen in desperate hope that Liv's heart would appear. But there was no way around it. No miracle. Louise was to give birth to our dead daughter, and I was to sit next to her and hold her hand, offer encouraging praise and sometimes just keep quiet. It shows what a huge frustration it is to sit in a scan room and see that the heart sound has stopped with the child you expect, that the little heart is not beating anymore. We therefore very much welcome this proposal and we very much agree with what the Minister for Employment said in relation to funding. Because it is precisely in the context of the pool of rates that we jump from tue to tue to find money and make tough priorities. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also believe that a lasting solution should be found so that parents can be treated equally, so that fathers also have the opportunity to take a grief leave. There is a great need to change this, and that is why we are willing to look at whether we need to draw up a joint report in committee, precisely in order to find a more permanent form of funding. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115045	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115053	I do not have children myself, but I think no one can be in doubt how tragic and crippling and sad it must be to lose a small child even if you do not know it yet. In Denmark, 400 children are born and die every year while they are young. Fortunately, it is significantly fewer than it has been in the past, but it is still gone a great many. The Minister mentioned earlier that we need to resolve this problem in a lasting way. I agree with that. I very much appreciate the fact that the SF has tabled the motion for a resolution, but also the fact that there is already a willingness in the Folketing to resolve the problem permanently. Mrs Karina Adsbøl refers to the debate that has been going on in the media for the last two months. I've been following that too. And somewhere I find it incomprehensible that we have such a well-developed welfare society where we can still find some of those holes where you stop and think: I wonder how you decided it. It is, of course, a provision from another time, a time when, as a man, you might not be considered as an integral or emotional part of the family structure as you are today. 'Cause I guess that tells most modern people that when you lose a child, it's not harder for the mother than it is for the danger. I think it's equally tragic for both people. With this I would say that, of course, the Left, like the Minister, is prepared for us to draw up a joint report, for us to find lasting funding, and thus to give fathers the same opportunities as mothers do today to take the grief leave. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115248	Thank you. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115252	Parents who have lost a child are at risk of going back to work after a short period of time, when they are immediately expected to be back at full speed. But grief is a natural feeling that needs time to be felt and to have a place with the individual, so that it eventually becomes a living thing. Parents who have lost a child must therefore have time to deal with the grief. We fully agree with the SF that the legislation today reflects a lack of recognition of the grief of fathers and mothers and a lack of recognition of the family's need to get through a very heavy and difficult period together. We therefore support the motion for a resolution and the amendments proposed by the SF may equate the right of parents to deal with their grief. The opposite to giving parents grief leave is to regard grief as a disease where you have to register for illness, but what can result from problems depending on the workplace's understanding and ability to keep the employee. I therefore think it is a very good and very important proposal that we give both parents the opportunity to deal with their grief. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup. I think I have seen the rapporteur. Then we'll have to skip. There is some confusion about the rapporteurs up here, also about the names. Then it's Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115448	Thank you. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. The Conservative People's Party agrees with the proposers that the resolution here concerns unfair and unnecessary discrimination between parents in a very difficult situation. Losing an infant must be quite awful for both parents to feel. We therefore agree with the intention behind the motion for a resolution. However, we also agree with the Minister for Employment and the previous rapporteurs that it is important that funding is in place. We therefore also see financial law negotiations as the right place to address this issue, precisely so that we can find a lasting solution to this problem. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we would like to work to ensure that we in the Committee on Gender Equality can agree on a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115549	Thank you to the rapporteur. It looks as if Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup would like to speak now. Here you go. Does the rapporteur need to speak or how? May-Britt Kattrup Yes, thank you, I'll be right there). We'd be happy to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115630	Thank you for that, and I'm sorry I'm late. I thought it wasn't until after lunch, so I'm very sorry, and I'm so a little out of breath because I've run up here. I think it is nice that the SF brings attention to equality between the rights of fathers and mothers in relation to children. It has to be said that there is no equality in this area, since fathers and mothers and mothers are rather weak in everything that has to do with their own children. In general, I have suggested that we look more at men's rights in divorce and joint children and children's checks, custody, etc. In this specific proposal, we are talking about the unhappy situation in which one has lost one's child and losing one's baby or, for that matter, a child of any age, must be one of the worst things one can ever face. For of course, fathers and mothers must have the same opportunity as mothers to deal with grief. I therefore agree with the SF that there should be equality, but I think it should be a permanent solution and therefore funding via the rate pool is not an optimal solution. The Liberal Alliance therefore believes that it should be dealt with in the next budget negotiations, and in these negotiations it would also be appropriate to include professional knowledge in what is really the best for people with such grief. The Liberal Alliance therefore does not support the proposal. However, we would very much like to contribute to a joint report which could form the basis for a decision on equality in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115815	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will bring the rapporteur for the proposers here before lunch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511115825	This is one of those days when it's a party to be a member of parliament, not because the case we're dealing with is such a festive one, on the contrary, but because it shows that sometimes it's possible to make some broad solutions in this Parliament. I would like to start by thanking you for the many speeches. It is not a real debate that has been going on, but I would like to say that what all the rapporteurs who have been on the platform have expressed is a great deal of sympathy for the people who are affected by this, and I think that in itself also means something to them. I would like to thank you for your support for the proposal, both from the rapporteurs and from the Minister. I am sure, with these reports, that we can get the country a report that improves equality and also improves the life situation of those couples who experience the unbearable, that is, losing their baby. This is a matter for which we in the SF have been fighting for many years, and I believe this is the fifth time we have tabled the motion for a resolution; the first time, as far as I can see, was back in 2006 and most recently also in the parliamentary assembly 2014-2015. Now it seems that we can succeed, and I am very pleased about that on behalf of the families. About 400 parents experience the loss of an infant each year by the 32nd week after birth. It is 400 families who suffer an unimaginable loss. It is almost impossible to accommodate how much grief it must be for the parents and families who have to go through it. When people are affected by such tragedies, it is important that we, as a society, are ready with help, and fortunately we do so in Denmark because we have a good and solid social model that supports and helps citizens who need it. However, when it comes to the help of society in the area of grief leave, there is therefore a curious problem of equality which we need to address. The mother who loses a baby today is entitled to 14 weeks of grief leave, which is good. The danger, on the other hand, is only 2 weeks, and we in the SF believe that this is simply neither fair nor can be explained in any way. This is a problem of equality which, as a society, we must address. It is basically about recognising that both parents have the right to mourn. Fathers or co-mothers who lose a child are as badly affected by grief as the mother of the child, and we therefore believe in the SF that it is perfectly reasonable that both parties should be entitled to 14 weeks of mourning leave. There are two major reasons why equality should be achieved in this area. The first reason is that the grief of losing a child is not about gender. We in the SF believe that legislation should recognise this. The second reason is equally important, namely that legislation should also reflect that grief is not just an individual matter. The grief of losing an infant is to a large extent a grief one experiences as a family and as a parent, and the legislation should allow one to do it fully. That is precisely what the proposed legislation must take into account. It must be a right that you can choose whether you want to make use of if you need it. As we have also described in the motion for a resolution, we are quite open to the funding of the proposal. When we proposed it with the rate pool, it is because the other times the proposal has been raised, it has always fallen on funding, and we just wanted to ensure that this time we had to find some form of funding, so that it is certainly not the end of it. I also hope, therefore, that the various rapporteurs who have agreed to support the proposal today are an expression of the fact that, within a relatively short period of time, we will be able to find funding that will equalise fathers and mothers and that we will be able to move quickly to change the legislation. So I would like to thank you very much, and I will say from the Radical Left and the Alternative, that they can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511120235	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511130028	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 16 May 2017. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen, for reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511130059	Thank you very much, President. It has not been so long since we discussed this issue in this Chamber. It was on 7 April at the request of the SF. There it was specifically about the government's plans to further increase the retirement age. This time we, the Enhedslisten, would like to extend the debate so that it is not just about the government's plans, for which, fortunately, there is no majority for so far. We would also like to have a more general debate on the human and social consequences of raising the pensionable age, as agreed between a number of parties in the 2006 welfare agreement, which has most recently been confirmed by Law No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In that change of law, the retirement age was fixed at 68 by 2030. It will also be described in detail in the law how the retirement age should be continuously increased in line with the average life expectancy and that the next time to decide on an increase will be by the year 2020. This means that if the average life expectancy by 2020 has increased enough to further increase the retirement age, as all the indications that it is doing are, then the conciliation parties have, i.e. All the bourgeois parties and the Social Democratic Party committed themselves to raising the retirement age. If the agreed indexation, i.e. the principle described in the law, is implemented, it will, for example, be implemented. If you are 30 years old today, you can only retire when you are 721⁄2 years old. If you are 18, you have to wait until you are 741⁄2 years old, and my smallest granddaughter, little Simon of 21⁄2 years old, must wait until he is 751⁄2 years old. Enhedslisten believes this to be unfair and irresponsible. It is quite unfair to the large group who entered the labour market at an early age and who have to leave the labour market long early because of wear and tear or because there was just no demand for their qualifications. It is socially irresponsible because we will have a growing group that will have to live for years for very low benefits, from leaving the labour market until they can go on an ever more distant pension if they live so long. So to those who had to sit and think, are we going to talk about it again? The answer is: yes, until a majority of this Parliament realises that the increase in retirement age as a result of the average life expectancy is a totally unfair and harmful principle that needs to be dealt with, and the damage it has already caused must be corrected. So I look forward very much to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511130330	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511130336	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has asked what the government can provide about the human and social consequences of a higher retirement age, and I am also sincerely pleased about this issue. In my opinion, it is absolutely crucial for our welfare society that our pension system is robust and takes care of those who need it. Later here today we shall also be discussing motion for a resolution No. B 113, which was also put forward by the Enhedslisten, on the right to early retirement for persons who do not necessarily need it. Just before Easter, April 7th, which Mr. Finn Sørensen also mentioned in his explanatory statement, I also had the pleasure of discussing the question of the future retirement age of Danes in connection with the question called F36 put by the SF, and it has to be said that the Enhedslisten, as usual, was also active in the debate. And it's kind of nice when people are active in the debate; everything else would be sad. Here we discussed, among other things: the consequences of an increase in the retirement age, and I will therefore allow myself to repeat myself to a large extent, which cannot necessarily come as the great surprise to the questioner. I think it is important that we deal with the facts and the reality in which we live, including the fact that life expectancy is increasing and there are increasing seniors who society must take care of and ensure proper old age. It is now the case that the Danes live longer and become healthier, and in every way it is a good and positive development. This is welcome for the individual, but it is also welcome for society and, therefore, also for the economy. While the seniors live longer, they are also retiring several years, which is why the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left agreed to increase the retirement age by two years in 2006. At the same time, the conciliation parties introduced an indexation mechanism so that a longer life span also leads to several active years in the labour market. Lifetime indexing is a key element of the retirement system to ensure that our pension system is robust in relation to the longer lifespan of the population. However, life expectancy has increased more than predicted by the welfare agreement in 2006, and it is therefore the government's view that it is timely care to consider adjustments to the retirement age. After all, discussion of concrete measures on withdrawal only makes sense to discuss when the government comes up with its proposal, which we expect to do before the summer break. It is no secret that the government wants a fairer distribution of the pension period between generations. Having said that, a longer life expectancy also means that pensioners' own savings must be extended over longer retirement. If the individual wants to maintain a good standard of living as a pensioner in the future, it therefore requires that the individual saves more for his or her pension. Among other things, it will: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done to ensure that those who can stay a little longer on the labour market and that many can stay longer on the labour market. Fortunately, many people are already doing so today. For example: The proportion of 60-64-year-olds working has increased by approx. 10% from 2008 to 2015, and the same trend is observed for 65-66-year-olds, where the employment rate has increased by 4%. during the same period. This is basically a positive development, not least for the individual, but also for our society. There are also a number of schemes that support the attractiveness of seniors to stay longer in the labour market. I am thinking here, among other things. to the tax-free premium under the early retirement scheme and to continue to work while receiving a national pension or to set up a pension. I would like to emphasise that employers have a responsibility for a healthy and safe working environment and for focusing on senior policies so that seniors can be maintained in the labour market and thus also maintain a good working life. In addition, I would like to point out that with the employment reform, which was adopted by a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament, and with the tripartite agreement on sufficient and qualified labour, there is a focus on strengthened and targeted qualification, and this also applies to our seniors. It is important to be aware that the life expectancy of 60-year-olds has increased for both unskilled and those with shorter and longer-term training, as is the employment rate. However, the government also recognises that there are Danes who become worn out before they reach retirement age. There are already good opportunities for withdrawal in the Danish labour market. For example, people who have been worn out after many years in the labour market have. the possibility of a flexible job if their ability to work is substantial and permanently reduced. Unlike in the past, there is now an opportunity to be employed in a flex job for a few hours a week, and this has greatly benefited the group of seniors. This is very positive and shows that in the seniors group there are several of those with reduced working capacity who now retain a link with the labour market rather than disappearing completely out of the labour market and come on, for example. early retirement. Finally, there is also early retirement for those people who are unable to get back into the labour market at all. For seniors, there is also the possibility of a senior early retirement pension, which gives access to a more flexible procedure, and the fact is, as I said last time, that approx. Nine out of ten applying for a senior early retirement pension receive it. So basically I believe that 1) we must have a robust pension system, 2) that we must support those Danes who can stay longer on the labour market, and 3) that we must ensure good welfare for those who cannot work until retirement age. The evolution of life expectancy means that from a socio-economic perspective it is important that those who can stay a little longer in the labour market do so too. The government will ensure that people who are worn out will also be able to withdraw from the labour market in the future. That is common sense, and we owe it not least to the people who may be worn out. With this I look forward to a good debate on a theme which will certainly fill a lot in the political discussion here at Christiansborg towards the summer holidays and most likely also in future generations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511131024	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first one on the floor is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511131033	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. The minister maintains his position, and that is the correct guess, and I am not surprised to see his desire to raise the pensionable age, as agreed with a number of parties, and that is why it is obviously necessary to make some facts clear again so that you can see how unfair and unsustainable it is. One in four 3Fs has left the labour market before they reach the age of 60; one in five members of the LO do not expect them to be able to work until retirement age; and almost every other member of the LO does not expect them to remain in their current job until retirement. It is not a question of whether they will be able It is such groups that are affected, plus a large group of FTFs who also have stressful and grueling jobs, such as: staff in day-care institutions, schoolteachers, etc.; These are the groups that are affected by their economy, their identity, their quality of life because they are forced out of the labour market at an early age. At the same time, their prospects for early retirement have deteriorated. In practice, the early retirement scheme has been abolished for those most in need, and access to early retirement has been tightened up considerably. You can't get it just because you're worn out and can only work 10-12 hours a week, just as a working capacity to that extent isn't in itself enough to get a flex job. The fig leaf of the Danish People's Party to go along with the destruction of the early retirement scheme was the senior early retirement pension. It has also proved to be the foolsucker, as the rest of us said it was, and it is no wonder, as it is as difficult to get as a regular early retirement. It is precisely the same requirements that must be met. At the same time, it has been tightened up in relation to cash benefits, sickness benefits and cash benefits. So the good question is: what are all these people going to live on from leaving the labour market until they can go on an ever more distant pension? Cash benefits with a ceiling and 225-hour rule are what's for them unless they're married to someone who makes money, because then there's no cash benefits. On top of that comes the huge inequality. The carpenter and the unskilled worker on average for 41 years, and the doctor can settle for 38 years. Life expectancy is 10 years longer for the richest quarter of men compared to the poorest quarter, and for women the difference is approx. 4 years. Unskilled people have fewer good senior years than academics, that is, fewer good years when they are not plagued by pain and other disability. If the conciliation parties for a higher retirement age believe that only these unskilled and skilled groups are protesting against a higher retirement age, then they are wrong. Measurements show that 56 per cent. of the population wants a lower retirement age than 68 years. 90% of the 50+ year-olds want opportunities for gradual withdrawal. But that does not make the conciliation parties shake their hands. Yes, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party are opposed to the government's plans for a further increase to this extent, we can only welcome that, but at least for the time being they maintain their support for conciliation for a gradual increase in the retirement age in line with the increase in average life expectancy, although it is actually the mechanics that are the problem itself. If the same parties then showed enthusiasm and action in terms of significant improvements in the working environment, training opportunities and opportunities for early retirement for those groups who entered the labour market early on, then perhaps they could get a little forgiveness. But they obviously do not want that forgiveness, even though thousands of unskilled people will become redundant in the years to come, while at the same time we will be lacking just as many skilled workers and even though the National Centre for Safety and Health at Work has just shown that physical and mental wear and tear in the labour market is going the wrong way. The conciliation parties seem to be united by only one thing: I recognise that there are differences and that is to maintain first place among the grotesque competition of the OECD countries on who can have the highest retirement age. But they have to have another chance to think about it. I look forward to the debate and then, on behalf of the SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, I will read out a proposal for adoption. The three parties do not necessarily agree on everything I have said here, but at least we agree to unite forces against the government's plans for a further increase in retirement age, and therefore our proposal for adoption here is this: the Danish Parliament finds that the Government's plans to raise the retirement age beyond what has already been agreed create great insecurity in the population, especially among those who entered the labour market early, who have physical and mentally debilitating jobs and who do not have the necessary educational qualifications. The Danish Parliament notes that since 2012 there has been a serious deterioration in the working environment as many more people are overloaded physically and mentally. The Danish Parliament notes that within a few years there will be a great shortage of skilled workers, of people with short and medium-term courses, and that approx. As many unskilled people and people who only have a baccalaureate will become redundant. Parliament therefore calls on the government to set aside its plans for further increases in retirement age and to call instead the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on massive investment in better working conditions and training, as well as good withdrawal opportunities for those who entered the labour market early on. V 103).
ParlaMint-DK_20170511131625	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate, and we thank the rapporteur for the questions. Next in line, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511131637	Thank you. Here again we are debating the consequences of an increase in the retirement age, which the government wants. What are the consequences for the individual, and is it necessary for society to make this increase? The last question debate, which Mr. Finn Sørensen explained clearly that the government believes this is necessary. It just never really found out why it thinks so, but there can be no doubt that the need for a further increase in the retirement age is still there. On page 92 of the thick report on the Danish economy presented by the government before Christmas, it says that there is still room for actual employment to increase without the prospect of bottlenecks in general. This means, translated into ordinary Danish, that there are available hands to fill new jobs. According to the government's own reckoning boys, the labour force will increase significantly, and by 2025, according to the Ministry of Finance, there will be 168,000 extra people to take off. Due to several reforms, the Danish economy is so sustainable that according to several economists there is no need for any more reforms unless, of course, you want to spend that money on tax cuts. With the rules that apply today, in 2040 Denmark will have the highest retirement age in Europe, so I do not understand why this debate is not closed and why the government has not already dropped that idea. We know that there are already people who have difficulty working as long as they have to, so let us solve that problem before we start creating even greater problems for these people. We will not help to force hard-working and worn-out Danes to work longer and miss precious years with spouses, children and grandchildren, so that top tax relief can be distributed to those who already have much in our society. An increase in the retirement age is adversely affected. It is the unskilled people, the people who live in rural areas, who will really feel it if the retirement age is raised. Firstly, we believe that all hardworking Danes are entitled to a decent pension existence. Secondly, we believe that the retirement age is not something to go and change all the time. The Danes must be able to plan their pension life in good time, and they must be able to count on what they can get in the form of a retirement pension and other things after a long working life. Thirdly, we have ensured, precisely through the reforms that have been made, that the Danish economy is now long-lasting. So there is no need for major labour supply reforms unless, of course, you want to give tax relief to the Danes again. We believe that there is a need to do something more for our worn-out in the coming years as the retirement age rises. We have no doubt about that. That was also the reason why, when we were in government, we set up a senior think tank. We believe it is important that in the coming years we have a thorough study of the senior sector and that, in the light of the information provided, we should look at the possibility of creating a coherent senior policy where we are precisely preventing labour market wear and tear, for example. improving the working environment and new technology and increasing the inclusiveness of the labour market so that more seniors can gradually withdraw from the labour market, and we also ensure that seniors who can no longer work have proper support. It is therefore quite clear from this that the government should admit that it made a mistake when it closed the SR government's senior think tank and that it should reopen it again. Therefore, the government should also drop any idea of a higher retirement age. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I shall read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danes live longer and are healthier, but expresses concern for those people who cannot work full working life because of wear and tear. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that all Danes are entitled to a decent pension and that the retirement age is not something to go and change all the time. The Danes must be able to plan their pension life in good time, and they must be able to count on their retirement pension and other things after a long working life. Parliament therefore calls on the government to restore calm and security about the retirement age of the Danes and to adhere to the current pension rules, which were founded with the 2006 welfare agreement, thereby dropping the plans to increase retirement age. Instead, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to strengthen its efforts for a better working environment and to set up a senior think tank to make suggestions on how more seniors can work voluntarily and more flexibly longer. • V 104).
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132115	The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are a number of brief comments, and the first question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132124	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, and also to the good arguments put forward by the rapporteur, against the Government's plans for a further increase in retirement age, and also to the rapporteur for repeating his opposition to the government's plans. It can then be said that the arguments and criticisms made by the rapporteur can equally be directed at the increases in the retirement age that have already taken place, according to the facts I gave about which groups are affected. But what I would like to know is: how far does the social democracy guarantee to oppose government plans? When I ask about this, it is because the rapporteur's party has agreed to a conciliation agreement on the indexation of retirement age as the average age increases. And the next time it has to be decided, namely by 2020, the average age will probably have increased so much that the law, as it is described today, will require an increase in retirement age. So how far does the rapporteur's guarantee go?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132233	It is clear, as I have said so many times, that once we have reached a settlement, we will keep it. And in 2006 we entered into a welfare settlement that says that we should look at it next time in 2020. If the retirement age is to rise in relation to what is laid down in that debate, we are also holding it. But there is also the clear difference that we do not agree to the desire of the government now to increase the pensionable age further. I think that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132303	That is clear enough, and in any case thank you for a clear confirmation that you have joined that mechanics. In other words, the rapporteur's guarantee to go against an increase in the retirement age is valid until 2020 at the most, and if it turns out that life expectancy is evolving as described in the law and that, therefore, at that time, there is an objective justification, according to the draft law, to follow the government's proposals, the rapporteur will also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132335	I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen completely confuses everything and so much that I don't even think that Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen can find out what's up and down. But now I have to make it a little clearer for those who are listening to this. We are not in favour of the increase in the retirement age that this government wants to end. We are opposed to this. But, of course, the welfare agreement, the settlement we made in 2006, we stick to, as we Social Democrats always do when we make agreements. I think that is quite easy to understand, and it seems that even Mr. Finn Sørensen understands it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132406	The next question is Mr. Klaus Markussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132409	Thank you. The Prime Minister has said so, the Minister of Finance has said it, yes, a great many of the members of the Liberal Party and ministers have said it: a change in the retirement age should not finance top tax relief. Why, then, does the rapporteur continue to travel with that myth?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132431	Yes, but I also believe that here, before there were parliamentary elections, where Mr. Anders Samuelsen fell from a tree and landed in a ministerial car, there was then a Liberal Alliance who wanted these top tax reliefs. I also think I can find more quotes in which they are still saying that they really want that. They're sort of part of the government. That's why I'm just worried. When we have an ultraliberal government, more liberal than we have ever had before, I can just have those concerns. That's why I just have to be a good social democrat, like Mr. Finn Sørensen said a few hours ago to hold on to that focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132512	With all due respect, I think that the rapporteur is far-reaching, but rather than avoiding it. Another myth I also hear is that worn-out people must stay on the labour market. But can the rapporteur here today mention who among the parties of the Folketing is saying that people who are worn out should stay on the labour market with what is contained in government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132541	Well, all I can say is that it happens. I do not know whether the rapporteur has been out or whether the rapporteur is just sitting in here doing a lot of work. But when I get out among people, Finn Sørensen and others are right: We meet these people. We meet some people who are worn out because of the fact that this is what I would also like to admit to the reform that we ourselves have been involved in through the 2006 welfare agreement. That is precisely why I am standing here talking about doing something for the worn-out, we have to do something for the working environment, we have to set up a think tank and all that. It is precisely because I know there are some people out there who are worn out and who cannot work that long. So I don't give a damn what the Left and other politicians say, because I know there's a problem out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132619	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511132636	Thank you for that, President. One might say that we are back in business, because this is almost a repeat of the debate we had some time ago, last week or last week again. And in this respect, of course, it is also important to look at what we are going to talk about. And that is how to ensure that people can have a reasonable life in their senior lives and in the labour market. In this regard, much has been said about the fact that it was all about raising the pensionable age. We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. We believe that it is a question of ensuring that you can have the right to a senior early retirement pension, a senior flexible job, a senior agreement that makes it easier to be in companies. There, of course, employers have a lot of work to do. Some do, but by no means everyone cares for what seniors need to be able to stay on the labour market for as long as possible. In this context, of course, there are also set-up pension schemes, but there may also be other benefits to be looked at so as to take into account the possibility of making it attractive to stay longer in the labour market. There are so many who believe that when you reach retirement age, you want to leave the labour market as soon as possible. But there is a widespread desire among people that they would like to have a link with the labour market for some time. They want to stay in the jobs they have if employers want to keep them. That's what I'm dealing with. But if you are worn out, and we are those who are; I am one of them myself, because I have been on the labour market for a very long time, there is therefore a tendency for that wear and tear, and the Minister must also be aware of this, only after you have reached 60 years of age. Therefore, nothing can help to say that you live longer, because yes, you live longer with a wear and tear, but it makes it harder to be in the labour market. That's why you have to make it work with senior pre-retirement and senior flexible jobs, which is a good thing. Then the Minister says that among all those who seek, nine out of ten senior pre-retirement pensions are paid. I don't know how they tackle it in the municipalities when people come in and are worn out and need a senior pre-retirement pension. But I have at least heard several times that if anyone talks about it, they are told that it should be according to the general rules. Well, okay, that's what we're gonna do. Then it won't be registered. But it is true that among those who are registered for having applied for it, those who have received a paper that they have applied for a senior early retirement pension, it is nine out of ten who get it. However, those who have been told that you cannot, because you have to under the general rules on early retirement will not be registered even if they have asked for a senior early retirement pension. It is not registered that they have applied. This requires that you fill out a form when you apply for a senior early retirement pension. The minister should perhaps look at how to ensure that the approach for those who are worn out comes a little more under control, so there will be a little better opportunities, i.e. that they are not just rejected in the gate and are told that you cannot get senior early retirement or senior flexible jobs, because it is according to the ordinary rules. It is clear that then the number would not be so high. If you do so that when the citizen gets up, he can apply for a senior early retirement pension, that is to say that it will be registered, then I think that the figure will rise dramatically, that is, the number of those who are refused. Because that's what happened when we made the senior retirement agreement. It was precisely the case that one should be able to get it on a lighter basis, but then it was put under the new rules on early flexible jobs and thus also the same procedure, and then there was not the lenient approach. I'm sure I'll give Mr. Knox that. Finn Sørensen is right. I think it's sir. Finn Sørensen, who has said that it may well be that it was a lighter approach to get the quick refusal. I think it was something like that, sir. Finn Sørensen said. I guess that's true. But for the Danish People's Party, it is not just a matter of unconsciously raising the retirement age. We need to look at how people can be taken care of so that they can be on the labour market for as long as possible, as long as they can, and then we need to help those who cannot. Therefore, it is also difficult to set a time when you need to get a senior pre-retirement pension or a senior flexible job. The higher the retirement age, the more the minister and the government will be, the more they will need to get a senior early retirement pension and a senior flexible job before they retire. Now, unfortunately, I have used my speaking time, but on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I have to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament refers to the political agreement on the V 70 adopted on 18 April 2017. V 105).
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133211	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133220	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech and, in particular, for the comment made to the Minister for Employment, namely that it is no good for the old age of early retirement to follow the old age of retirement. That is an important point that we must remember when discussing changes in it. Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur the following question: does the Danish People's Party still stand by the fact that it will not contribute to the government's proposal to increase the retirement age? And if you do, how far does that resistance go? How long is the guarantee that the government's proposals will not be supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133301	Now it's the case that I don't issue a guarantee. We have said what we have said about the retirement age. We are not going in to support the government in advancing retirement age. But what happens in 10 years, I can't say anything about, because I don't know what's going on in 10 years. I guess by then I won't be in the Folketing. I'm one of those guys who's getting older by now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133328	Now I'm not talking about personal guarantees. I am talking about what the Left, sorry, the Danish People's Party's policy is. I'm sorry I got confused there. It was not conscious; it might have been in some situations. Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted, the next time the Danish People's Party will have to act in 2020, because that is what the law says. In 2020, it is necessary to consider whether the retirement age should increase further and, if you are a conciliation party, to join if the average life expectancy has increased sufficiently during that period, and all the indications are that it will. So the answer from the Danish People's Party is: Our guarantee only applies until 2020. Then we will have to contribute to an increase in the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133414	The fact that we are involved in increasing the retirement age requires that we agree that this is what it looks like. Because if we do not consider that there is a basis for raising the retirement age, then it is not there. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133428	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Klaus Markussen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511133438	Thank you and thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. The questioners would like to know the human and social consequences of a higher retirement age. I am actually pleased that we will again have the opportunity to discuss the retirement age. It gives me an opportunity to throw some real facts into the debate, which I think tends to be forgotten. But I will allow myself to start somewhere else. Last week an analysis published by Danish Industry was available in Berlingske. Here the conclusion was unmistakable. The last 10 years of reforms have made Denmark 130 billion. kr. richer and increased employment by 155,000 people. It is an absolutely crucial step that we have taken with the reforms, which, if nothing else, should inspire us. It is important that we maintain and that we ensure the economic recovery in which we find ourselves. But why are we even talking about raising the retirement age early? This is simply because the Danes live longer than was foreseen in the 2006 welfare agreement, as others have pointed out. Well, that's news for us to enjoy. We agreed with the welfare agreement, among other things. with social democracy raising the retirement age to follow life expectancy, but now that life expectancy has increased faster than expected, the age limit for retirement has fallen. It's gonna cause a lot of trouble in the long run. That is why I really think it is unsolidarous to do nothing. If we simply sit on our hands and dare not take responsibility for us, it will be expensive for our children's generation. So, in my opinion, it is responsible to look at retirement age. Today's debate is about the human and social consequences of a higher retirement age. The truth is that today more than a million Danes are receiving a national pension. We're spending 130 billion. kr. In the case of old-age pensions, the amount of the pension is calculated on the basis of the amount of the Over the coming years, more people are retiring from the labour market and fewer entering the labour market. This means that fewer people have to support more, and that is a problem in the long term. Therefore, it is both solidarity and responsibility towards our young generations to adjust slightly to the retirement age, so that we ensure a balance between the retirement age of generations. As things stand now, the present generation can look forward to 18 years of retirement, while future generations can only look forward to 15 years. In fact, I do not think that is fair. When I follow the debate on retirement age, the common thread among many in the left is that the Left will force the worn-out to hang in between beaks and claws, but let me make it clear once and for all that we have at no time in the debate called for or proposed worn-out people, where the body says stop, to stay on the labour market longer than they can. On the contrary, the Left has provided good opportunities for our worn-out citizens. With the 2011 retirement reform, together with the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Conservatives, we secured a more flexible pension system with good retirement opportunities in the form of a senior early retirement pension and flexible job schemes of down to 2 hours a week, which really benefit the seniors in the labour market. I'm gonna stay for a minute at the senior early retirement, because it's a really good arrangement. An analysis by the Ministry of Finance shows that nine out of ten applying for a senior early retirement pension receive it, and that gives me a completely different picture from that of many on the left. The figures show quite clearly that the system is working, and I think this is worth noting, but I would like to say that far fewer people than expected are using the system. That is why it is also important that we make the system known to the municipalities. Last year, the former Minister for Employment drew the attention of the municipalities to the early retirement scheme, which, I hope, will help more people to get acquainted with it in the future. So let us not kick the scheme to the corner, but instead make sure that more people benefit from it. Back to retirement age. An adjustment in the retirement age can help to ensure more and better welfare in the future too, a welfare that we all benefit from, and one might ask whether the red parties could not have an interest in good future welfare. Now that we know that reforms make Denmark richer, I am surprised that the parties on the left do not assume the responsibility for securing the future of Denmark by raising the retirement age a little bit for those who can, well to feel. We see right now that significantly more skilled seniors stay in work clothes because they want to. For example, I have. read articles about Arriva, which has great pleasure from, for example, three 80-year-old bus drivers. Today, 67,000 Danes retain links to the labour market through mini-flex schemes. This tells me that these seniors really want to stay in the labour market to the extent they can, and that is precisely why it makes sense that we have a number of schemes that support the attractiveness of seniors to stay longer in the labour market. To the Enhedslisten and to the SF, it will have more social consequences if we do not adjust the retirement age than if we do. The consequence of the fact that fewer people have to support more people means that we are going to meet a number of years when there are very large public deficits. A number of economists also point out that the young generation will be the first generation for 200 years, which can look forward to a lower standard of living than that of their parents. In my opinion, this is not a development that we can be familiar with. I think that we should listen to the majority of economists who emphasise that an increased retirement age ensures a balance between generations. I think that is politically responsible, and I also think that we should agree jointly to deliver the best possible society to the generations following us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134132	There are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134136	Thank you. The danger of growing deficits and a lower standard of living, etc. is, of course, only, provided that in the future the Left will also be part of a majority in the Folketing, giving priority to tax relief for the 10%. the richest higher than welfare. That's how short this discussion is. But I would like to keep the rapporteur up on this with solidarity. The rapporteur really believes that raising the retirement age is an act of solidarity. How much solidarity is it with the groups that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech and that no one can question are the groups that get into a mess? After all, these are the same groups that the rapporteur's party has reduced the scope for withdrawal by cutting the early retirement wage and by tightening up on early retirement. How solid is that? Can the rapporteur not explain to me the rather odd definition of the word'solidarity'?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134237	I think it's remarkable to hear this myth again that an increase in retirement age should go to finance tax cuts for the richest. I have just pointed out in my question to the former rapporteur that no one is saying anything like that, other than the parties on the left, who obviously have a particular interest in sticking to some myths that have been invented themselves. I do not think that is worthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134316	I believe that all economists in this country agree that the so-called room for manoeuvre referred to in the Danish economy has been created because of tough labour market reforms on unemployment benefits, early retirement, early retirement, sickness benefits and cash benefits. And the Left hasn't held back, to take an example, to earmark the cash benefits ceiling for tax reliefs. That's just an example. I did not get an answer to what I was asking: how solidarity is it to hit groups for which withdrawal opportunities have been reduced? After all, it is the groups that are being affected by an ever-increasing retirement age, namely all those who entered the labour market at an early age. How solid is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134406	It is absolutely true that over the past very many years, the Left has either been the initiator or wholeheartedly supported reforms that have helped to strengthen not only the Danish economy but also the well-being we all enjoy in Denmark. Denmark has simply become richer, both by the reforms initiated by the Left and by the reforms to which the Left has contributed. I have no problem recognising that praise. That is exactly the point in relation to the solidarity perspective here. Our policy is that there is no one who cannot work and who is worn out, who will be forced to stay on the labour market longer. On the contrary, this shows due diligence in making the right decisions at the right time. And I really look forward to the government making a concrete move in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134506	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134510	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say that we must have good future welfare, and that is what we agree with. The rapporteur just forgot the last two words which we think, and which the rapporteur may think, but I do not know, it certainly does not seem that way, namely a good future welfare for everyone, that is to say for everyone. When I say that, it is to draw attention to those who have been working and dragging since they left primary school. Well, now we heard about sir. Finn Sørensen's grandson. Let us imagine that Mr. Finn Sørensen's grandson leaves primary school at the age of 17-18 years to work. Well, then the grandson's gonna be working for 57 years. That's a lot. I don't think a lot of people in here are coming to that, because they've gone to school until they were almost 30 years old. That is the problem. What about all the people who have been working and dragging for so many years? What's the answer to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134610	The answer is that the reforms that we are behind, either because we have taken the initiative ourselves, or because we have contributed to them, have helped to make Denmark richer, have helped to ensure that there is provision for proper welfare for all. And the initiatives we are proposing must help to ensure that there will also be affording everyone proper welfare in the future. I think that those who now sit and say that they do not want to do anything are unsolidarian and forward a bill to the children's room to future generations rather than to solve the challenges now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134650	I am well aware of the fact that a proper, real liberalist Leftman is, of course, solidarity with the economy. But I am like a good Social Democrat in solidarity with these worn-out people who have no chance. What are you going to do about them? Well, I didn't get an answer. How will the Left ensure that those people can also work for so long? How are they supposed to stand it? In other words, when the Left was in government alone, the only answer they had was a senior flexible job scheme that provided 100 people with work. It was just before it was an insult to these people. What does the Left intend to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134730	Well, what is the starting point for the Left's policy is to make the right decisions at the right time. It is important for the Left that proper welfare is also provided in the future. I would like to condone the accusations of being ultraliberal and all sorts of things. It's just that it's all covering up the fact that sir... Leif Lahn Jensen has no interest in taking responsibility and helping to solve the problems now rather than passing the bill on into the nursery.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134808	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134811	I'm really excited to hear what the Treasury looks like from the government's point of view. As I understand it, it is evidently linked to the fact that you can argue that you are raising the retirement age because you can get more money into the box. At the same time, there are arguments for tax reductions, just in other contexts. But these two things are not connected. Well, does the government have such a special treasury where there are partitions and where the money is not mixed together? I've heard of one of these in fantasy stories, I guess, never really. But now the rapporteur has the chance to explain what the Danish Treasury looks like from the government's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134846	I hope there was a good hearing when I said once and for all in my rapporteur's speech: let us stop with those myths that an increase in retirement age should go to finance reliefs in top tax. That is not the case, it has not been the case, and it will not be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134911	Well, like so many other answers, it's not gonna be right for you to just repeat your lesson. But, by the way, praise for the parrot effect, where you just repeat what you have said. May I have a description of what the Treasury looks like, where money is poured in, and where it is not said in the same argument that they should go for tax relief. But there are also arguments for tax cuts. How will the government prevent the money coming in by raising the retirement age from benefiting from tax relief? Of course, we cannot do that, because there is not a partition in a treasury. Is that it, government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511134942	I can understand the interest in political teasing, but what is the essence here is, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that the life span, which is one of the prerequisites of the 2006 agreement, has increased faster than expected. This is positive, because it means that the Danes live longer and live healthier. However, this also means that the age limit for retirement is to fall behind. And that is what is behind the government's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135016	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135023	I think that the question is turned upside down in this question when you ask for the consequences of allowing the retirement age to follow life expectancy, because the consequences would be a fairly status quo if you do. Instead, if you want to maintain a fixed retirement age, the consequences will be that people will have more and more pension years and that will pose a major economic challenge. If you do not regulate the retirement age, approx. 23% of the population being on a folk pension in 2040 compared with approx. 18% With the mechanism of the welfare agreement, the impact on employment is in the order of 190,000 people. I think it would be really exciting to see a coherent alternative to the current system from those parties that are busy with problematizing, that life and retirement age go together. What I normally hear from those parties is that there is virtually no one public expenditure in Denmark which should not grow violently, and to make it balance with far fewer on the labour market resembles to me a mathematically impossible task, even if we live at a time when alternative facts and alternative mathematics seem to have good conditions. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a fairly large financially responsible majority, which means that Danish government finances are solid and demographic challenges have been taken into account in good time. The alternative to this responsible economic policy is not paradise on earth, but Greek conditions, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the adoption text, as Mr. Klaus Markussen from the Left read out, and I should also like to welcome from the Radical Left, who unfortunately had to leave just now, and say that they also support that text of adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135228	Thank you. It was sir. Bent Bøgsted, who read out the proposal for adoption but it is forgiven. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135237	Now I will try to maintain interest in the combination of state and partitions, because not only did the rapporteur of the Left almost succeed in giving an indication of what the Treasury looks like from the corner of the Left in the government. But now I can give the opportunity to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I am in favour of not arguing that an increase in the retirement age should be used for tax relief, but how will it be prevented from becoming reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135302-2	This is just as much about a matter of priority. This is a political question. How much money do you think it's fair to spend on retirement? How much money do you want to give to healthy and bodied people for not being in the labour market? That is just as much as it is a priority. From my chair you have three opportunities to finance it, to get older and older, which is positive: 1) You can work much more while you are of working age; 2) we can raise taxes; or 3) we can hold on to the fact that you have these 141⁄2 years of retirement. And that is where we want the latter because we think it is reasonable and because that is what we think we should use common funds for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135349	Well, it was a great election from the Liberal Alliance. It's too bad it had nothing to do with what I asked, because otherwise it could be such an exciting dialogue. But it didn't have a snuff to do with it. I ask again: how can we prevent an increase in the retirement age from financing tax relief when we argue that the retirement age will be raised in order to make more money flow into the treasury and when we argue that tax relief will be granted unless we have a very special treasury? And that possibility is still open to Mrs Laura Lindahl to explain, that is to say, whether you have a treasury with very special partitions, which I have the impression is the treasury that the Left is looking down into it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135426	After all, it is not the case that we want to raise the retirement age in order to get more money into the treasury. It is the case that we want to raise the retirement age so that there is no more money leaking from the treasury. That is exactly what is happening here, namely that we are merely preventing more expenditure in this area than we would have if we were to do as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135446	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135448	Thank you. The rapporteur cannot deny that every time you increase the retirement age, especially at a time when there are more older people, you save the Treasury a lot of billions. That's staggering billions of dollars. I have not spoken them up here, but I believe that the rapporteur must admit that this is the case and that this is the driving force behind the Left and, for that matter, the desire of the conciliation parties to increase the retirement age. So that is just the first question I would like the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135523	But it is true that when we want to raise the retirement age, it is to reduce the additional costs we are looking forward to. There is no question of this being new money in the Danish Treasury. It is a question of preventing more money from going out and coming in from somewhere. And where will they come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135547	The difference is, of course, the same, and that is what the Left and the conciliation parties have spotted, namely that if you restrict access to a public pension that is what it is all about, then you save a great many billions, and then there is the possibility of distributing some more money for tax cuts, which, as experience shows, especially they come to 10%. The richest for good. I do not have a question, but just a small correction, and that is that Enhedslisten has actually put forward a proposal for an alternative which could mitigate all the negative effects of an ever-increasing retirement age. It is our proposal, which we call 'Good senior life for everyone', that we should have the right to withdraw from the labour market at the level of unemployment benefit after 40 years on the labour market and that we should have the right to a reduction in working time after 35 years on the labour market. So don't come and say that no alternatives have been put forward. And a very good alternative was also to improve the working environment, so that the groups I am talking about had a chance to be much longer on the labour market and have a longer life at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135649	It was a long speech, although there was no question. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135652	To the end, the rapporteur knows very well that the government and the parties in the government are also concerned about this. We fully agree with the rapporteur that we must ensure a good working environment; so, of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that people do not get worn out and do not get sick from going to work. And I think we all share that intention in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135717	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511135723	Thank you very much. Most Danes won't When people say that, I think we should listen. But I think the government chooses to close its ears to the wishes of the people. As the Minister puts it, from a social perspective it would be right for people to stay longer in the labour market. Yes, and the Left rapporteur, Klaus Markussen, then tightens up further with a series of scare pictures that it will be expensive for our children if we do not do what the government says or that we send the bill into the children's room. However, if we want to return to the Minister's slightly more sophisticated expression, it will be important from a social perspective that people stay longer in the labour market. So I'm just asking, what kind of social perspective is that? It is certainly not my social perspective that we should all be such small production units in a competitive society with unconditional growth, which takes on both nature and the environment and the climate and, in this case, people's ability to have a good old age. In my social perspective, society is there for man's sake, instead of us being there for society's sake. That doesn't mean I just think the money's growing on the trees. I'm a corporate owner myself. I've been used to things running around for many years. I've had to show financial responsibility for the past many years of my life. However, I am tired of the fact that the space we need to discuss, which society we want, is being reduced by scaremongering that anything but unconditional growth in a competitive society is irresponsible. I must guarantee that as long as the alternative is in the Folketing, we will ensure that there is room where we can discuss what kind of society it is that we cannot just endure living in, but in which we can actually thrive. That is why we are also listening when the people say: do not screw the screw that increases the retirement age. So there is no doubt that, in the alternative, we do not share the desire to raise the pensionable age more widely. There are very many groups in this society who have a job where it is simply not healthy for the group and for that matter the mind to continue working with constantly increasing efficiency for longer and longer. Stress has become a lifestyle disease for hundreds of thousands. Should we just say to them: Work longer? 900,000 Danes find it difficult to reconcile family and professional life. Should we just say to them: Knock more? In the case of the 3Fs, it is one in four who have to leave the labour market before they reach 60 years of age. So that's 25%. the chance that you, as 3Fs, will not be able to hold to a life on the labour market until the current retirement age. It is a huge challenge that so extremely many people have to go to work on painkillers and antidepressants in order to get through a working day. So if we are to have a better pension system, it must take into account that people also have a life after work. We should not have a pension system based on driving the last working capacity out of people before retirement age. Our labour market should not wear people down mentally and physically, and right now a high retirement age is a huge challenge for really, very many groups. That is why the alternative supports the proposal for a text for adoption which was read out by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140042	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Klaus Markussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140046	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Does the rapporteur recognise that for many years to come we will be fewer to support more people? And therefore does the rapporteur also recognise that there will be a bill to be paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140104	My opinion is that Klaus Markussen doesn't know anything about that. We're in front of digitization, we're in front of robotization. Half the experts say we're going to get a huge lack of work, while the other half says we're going to need a lot. Bill Gates and Elon Musk, huge business magnates, say that we are likely to find ourselves in a situation where we do not all have to work to get society running around. So I say, no, I don't recognize that. No one has the crystal ball that tells us what the world looks like in 20-30 years, after robotisation, digitalization and artificial intelligence have influenced our labour market very, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140147	I can reveal to the rapporteur that there are a number of economists who clearly say that the young generation will be the first generation for 200 years to look forward to a lower standard of living than their parents' generation. Does the rapporteur think it is reasonable to leave a bill for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140208	It is only necessary for those people to have a lower standard of living than their parents if so, because parties like the Left and others believe that so much money should be channelled from our common community household into private pockets we call it capital accumulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140227	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, also called SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140239	The government is playing with the uncertainty of tens of thousands of people by once again bringing the retirement age back into play not for politicians, no, uhadada, but for everyone else. So, what's the money for? Tax reliefs, cheaper cars or other bad ideas that can be obtained during night negotiations in the Ministry of Finance. It will create even more bias, even more injustice. People who started early at work and who have often had a hard working life at modest wages can be allowed to pay the bill. The government has virtually only an arrogant shoulder pull over for the people who have worn out have gotten in the door on their way out of the labour market. Many older people get far too little out of senior years, either because they die too early or because they are too worn out to enjoy life as seniors. That is a pretty way of saying thank you for a long working life. Thanks for the effort, old man. Your work is rewarded with insecurity and inequality, and many fear not being able to last years on the labour market. We can't be that familiar. Until retirement was destroyed, 1 in 3F and 1 in 4 members of the FOA went on early retirement. On the other hand, it was only every 20 academics. Today, at the age of 60, one in four 3Fs is either retired or dead. The wear and tear of the years on the body through hard physical work or labor on the mental excess during a stressful everyday life rarely disturbs the right wing. After all, the government is looking for money to sweeten the lives of quite other citizens. Life at work can be brutal, and many worn-out citizens are desperately looking for emergency exits to decent life. The same retirement age for all means extreme inequality when people with very different lives are treated equally. This injustice is becoming more important as the retirement age increases. Yes, we live on average longer, and when you dwell on it for a moment, you think that that is actually very nice, considering the alternative, isn't it? But it just covers very big differences. 25% of the population, where we take the longest-educated men, live 10 years longer than the 25 per cent. Shortest-educated men. However, we should not tolerate the extreme social imbalance also giving access to such different senior years. The government is lost, and it is because their compass does not correspond to reality. The government's map only shows the sample where the best living lives, which can easily last a few more years on the labour market, while the sample that maps the raw class society is invisible. As it is now, inequality increases. If you have had a long and hard working life, you will have some tough years as a senior, but we think there should be more and better opportunities for the elevator to stop on several floors. People with many years at work must have the opportunity to get off before they reach retirement age so that they can have some good years as seniors. All the way through the world of work we see a brutal inequality in access to, for example. a good and healthy working environment, inequality in access to a long and healthy life. There is inequality in income, education and opportunities to influence your own working life. As the raisin in the sausage end, the hardworking employee eventually gets a rough shoulder picking on the way out of working life and into senior years. If you have had a nice working life with a long education, high pay, great influence on your own working day, yes, then you will have some delicious years as a senior. If you've been dragging since you were quite young, the thanks are insecurity, much less money and a significantly shorter life. SF doesn't think that's okay. We will lend a helping hand to the seniors by providing security for retirement age and by introducing fewer and better opportunities for retirement in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140722	There are brief comments, and the first question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140726	Thank you. Now the rapporteur speaks a great deal about the government's desire to reduce registration fees and the desire for tax relief, which is why I get the impression that it has something to say about what savings might be spent on. Is that correct? When you spend so much of your time talking about the fact that it is too wrong for the government to want to lower registration fees or low tax cuts, is it because you would like to raise the retirement age if you spent the money on something that you in the SF think is reasonable, or what is the reason why you spend so much time on what we want to spend money on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140808	That is to illustrate the choice one faces. Should the north of Copenhagen in the wealthy families have even easier to buy Porsche no. 2, or will you give our seniors the opportunity to have some dignified years at the end of their lives? That is the choice I am trying to illustrate here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140826	Okay, I just don't understand. If, in isolation, you think it is not so good that the retirement age should be raised we hear other rapporteurs say that the Danes are in agreement why do you need to talk tax relief and all sorts of things into it? I think it is because the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party and the other parties know very well that this is not a win-win case, because of course the Danes can easily see the reason why the older we are, the longer we live, the longer we are in the labour market too. So you have to take tax cuts, top tax reliefs, perhaps the ugliest words you can come up with on the left, into the debate to give it a little more weight, to try to find some good arguments, some good scare pictures, so your constituents will be safe knowing that you are probably still fighting their battle. But you have to admit, you just don't fight their fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511140916	I have some doubts about what Mrs Laura Lindahl wants me to say. What I can hear is apparently a strong irritation that I would remind you that lower taxes are one of Liberal Alliance's most profiled policy areas and that lower taxes on large cars, in particular, are also an important point. When it is precisely the Liberal Alliance that is asking me questions: is it the party that is profiling more than any other party that one should have cheaper cars, especially the big cars, and especially those who live in the big houses, must have cheaper taxes, and one must also have lowered the top tax, I would say that I can only understand that one can be happy to be presented with the choice one faces: will one give the elderly some dignified senior years, or will one make life even sweeter for those who have so abundantly in advance? And that is where the Liberal Alliance has so much chosen side in favour of the upper class.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141003	The next question is Mr. Klaus Markussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141007	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the rest of us had ruined the early retirement. But is it not true that the rapporteur's own party agreed to this when the rapporteur's party joined the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141025	No one can ever doubt what the SF thinks about the early retirement. We even attempted to turn the parliamentary elections of 2007 into a vote on whether or not to maintain the post-retirement salary. The SF is fully committed to the post-retirement wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141040	I think the rapporteur is not talking about it. But then we try something else: of course you have to be able to withdraw from the labour market early if you are worn out. We've been saying that all along. Can the rapporteur tell me who says otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141055	Well, have we seen a single concrete example of this being meant? Now, right after this point, we have a proposal on it. Then we can get into the substance of what Enhedslisten is proposing as a proposal. After that, the SF makes a concrete proposal in which we make it easier for seniors to withdraw from the labour market. I therefore think that we in this Chamber are regularly presented with proposals from the left to make it easier for seniors to retire. I haven't heard a single proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141124	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141136	Thank you for that and thank you for many exciting posts. It has to be said that we are still close to 1 May. After all, there were some who were up to a level where I've never heard them be before. It was, of course, just before that whoever was the most objective of those who were responsible for the question here was Mr. Finn Sørensen, and it pains me to admit it. It was a relatively nuanced speech. It was not a good speech, but it was relatively nuanced. I must say there is no need to laugh at the Minister, there is no reason for that. But of course it is the President who controls it. Sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative talked himself out in a wild talk that one should almost be against growth because it is not something that is good for anyone. I think most people here at Christiansborg want society to be richer. Neither are any of us working towards the destruction of animals and plants, and everything must go wrong. That is not what we are working for here at Christiansborg, but there are some different opinions and disagreements about where we should go. It has to be said that there was at least one who had relatively much experience of government work from within, although it was probably not for so many weeks, and that was Mr. Karsten Hønge, who, it has to be said, also went to the waffles and had completely forgotten that the SF had a government responsibility, and that when you were in government, along with someone who was no longer SFs, you also arrived at a finding. And I'll admit it. She was a candidate for the presidency, but found out that, since she could not be elected, it was probably a better idea to switch to another party, even when you left the government, that is, Astrid Krag. After she became a minister, she found relatively quickly that there were no money trees in Denmark. That was wise. It's like reading to midgets. Well, I guess no one can believe that there are money trees, and it has to be said that Mr. Karsten Hønge is on his way back. For what the debate is about today is, among other things, as a large number of rapporteurs have also wisely said, that we want to ensure the future of this society. A great many responsible parties would like to do so, and it should perhaps also be pointed out that it is not the case that the retirement age has always been 65 years. This has been forgotten here today. Many of those who are interfering in the debate here know very well that it was 67 at the beginning of the 00s. When we come to live longer, it is quite reasonable that we look at it. The always mystery rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen, has also gone down and looked into the bill which is the basis for the lifetime indexing: the bill which was adopted in 2015 and which has this mechanism in it, which also requires the parties to sit down and make the decision on it. And you have to say that you do, based on the fact that fortunately we live longer and that we also have a healthier life. Then there were also a few myths, which were again drawn by the stable and which were last, and that was then by Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Last time we had a long debate on whether Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen wanted to hear what was said from the platform. I remember very clearly that I said last time that there must be something wrong with Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, and I don't think there is anymore. Now I think it's another diagnosis we have to make. There is absolutely no one in the government who says that ensuring the future of a society must mean that the money that you potentially have to save in relation to the resilience that the Danish economy then gets must go to top tax relief. It has to be said that we find that both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and myself have said several times. But for me, this is about solidarity. That was the rapporteur from the Left, Mr President. Klaus Markussen, who said that this is a matter of solidarity with future generations, and Mrs Lindahl mentioned that this is about revenue and expenditure, and that is absolutely right. After all, it is not a given matter that there is just revenue in the future. After all, we will have to reconcile revenue and expenditure, and we will also have to take account of Mr Beazley's report. Finn Sørensen's grandson Simon, 21⁄2 years old, I had to understand, and that there are also strong welfare societies on the day he retires. It is probably a society that we cannot deal with today, and that brings me to another discussion on the working environment on which we have, of course, had repeated discussions. Fortunately, there is something that brings together a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, namely the work on the working environment, and we have discussed this in quite detail in recent weeks. That is why it is also very interesting that here today there are still several rapporteurs who say that the government is not at all concerned about the working environment, that it is completely indifferent to the working environment and does nothing. I have just said today that, among other things, we are. In one sector, in other words agriculture, we are going to make an increased effort to avoid seeing as many deaths as we see. We are also going to take further initiatives in the field of construction, because it simply cannot be right that so many people are unfortunately killed every year in the two sectors. We owe it to that both in relation to the very serious accidents at work, but of course also in relation to muscle and skeletal disorders and for that matter also the psychological working environment. And that's where I'm gonna have to admit, sir. Torsten Gejl some of what he said was very sensible. What does the society we're about to enter mean? Nobody's arguing about that. In relation to at least Mr. Finn Sørensen's and Mr. Karsten Hønge's speech had to be understood that it is almost a return to a very hard industrial society. We are entering a digital society with automation, robotics and many other things that help to ensure that some of the physically very hard and hard work can fortunately be taken over by robots or otherwise organized. This does not mean that we should not be concerned about ensuring that the working environment is a priority, and I would just like to make that clear today. Let me also say to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who is again tempted to say, made a quite reasonable and sober speech, which was also balanced, that we agree that we must also look at how we can ensure that some of the many schemes we have can help to support more people staying in the labour market. I agree with a hundred percent. We can also welcome the fact that there are several seniors who are now in the labour market, and I am also quite open to discussing what further initiatives can be taken to ensure this. I think that is an important part of the discussion, and that is also the proposal for adoption that we agreed on during the last debate, that is to say V 70. So it's also an important part of this discussion, how to support some of the different schemes we've made. I think there is still much to be done, for example. retirement pension. A lot of people don't know what those rules are like. There we can make a much greater effort to draw people's attention to what opportunities you have if you use that model, to mention just one specific point. But it is the case that we have now had a debate which has not separated itself from the debate we had on 7 April, and that is not to be expected either, because no one has changed their mind in this way. For me, however, it is crucial to make it clear that the government will, first of all, make a move before the summer break in relation to withdrawal. Secondly, it is also crucial that those of us who now have the political responsibility at Christiansborg also look at how to ensure cohesion in society for future generations and thus also ensure that there is a robust economy when life expectancy is now increasing and when you also become healthier. I think that is also an important part of the discussion about having a community of solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141949	There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511141954	Thank you. It is a little funny, things have gotten today, I start by being a good social democrat and have become a good social democrat with diagnoses. That's amazing. What's this day gonna end with? I have to ask a question because, as I heard the Minister at least, he said that no one has said that the increase in retirement age should be subject to tax relief. But if you make an increased retirement age and at the same time make tax cuts, it is based on the same box, so somewhere it helps to finance it. I now know that you want an increase in the retirement age, so can the Minister confirm that there will be no government proposals for tax relief in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142042	Well, I don't think I've made any diagnosis of sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and I would not be able to do that at all, because in my world Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is a good politician. What I said was that when we last had the debate, I thought it was difficult when Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen either did not want to hear or could not hear what was said. In relation to the whole debate on the economy, I would like to say that it is a question of robustness, and in terms of the government basis we have quite clearly stated what we want to work for. But as for that clutch, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen would like to provoke a change in people's ability to be on the labour market and the whole question of withdrawal, and the fact that the financial resources are going to finance top tax incentives, I can say that the government has absolutely no intention of doing so. That is not what we are going to be discussing with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142141	Well, it's not harder either. It's very simple. If the government is planning to increase the retirement age and that gives some money, while at the same time making some tax cuts and then spending some money, it is very, very easy to say that it is the money that goes over, or at least it is some other money, but it is from the same box. So I just have to ask again: does the government have plans for tax relief in the coming time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142211	Well, we had this discussion last time, and I would like to repeat it, but last time it was Mrs Astrid Krag who was in the middle of it and asked if there were any more state funds. Fortunately, we were denied that there was. There was only one treasury. And I can say again that we agree that there is one Treasury. However, to the question today as to whether making a withdrawal reform should be financed by tax cuts, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142234	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142239	Thank you. After all, the minister has a question from me and from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen confirmed that there is a settlement on the indexation of pensionable age. We are still waiting to have the conciliation text itself, but I will ask a question about that, in the hope that we can have it forwarded very quickly. The mechanism of the law is, of course, that if the average age has risen as described in the legislation, when we reach 2020, then there must be an increase in the retirement age. How will the Minister see it if some parties of the conciliation parties say no to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142324	Now it is in that way that the bill that was adopted in 2015 was, as I remember it, the autumn of 2015 • the guideline on how to make this indexing, which follows up the 2006 agreement, and there it is the case that in addition to the agreement that was made in 2006, the same parties have to confirm that this is what you are doing, and that requires you to do it actively in the legislative process. And in relation to the whole question of the conciliation text, and what it says, I can say that I shall ensure that it is answered before Tuesday, when we shall vote on the proposals for adoption, because I know that this is a question that lies with Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen at heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142410	Thank you. I am of course concerned about this for the sake of all the many people whom I can see will be affected by it if we increase the retirement age further, but of course also to be aware of what the possibilities of non-compromising parties are actually to change it here if we are now opposed to an ongoing increase in the retirement age. So that is why I put my question to the Minister and I look forward to having the concrete text. But I would like to repeat my question: if that is the case, then the conciliation parties that are behind Act No. 40, which was adopted on 18 December 2015, will not contribute to an increase in the retirement age as described and as the rules are in the law, is it to be considered as a breach of conciliation, or what? How will the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142503	How I look at it, I'll describe it when I transmit it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is asking, as it is a discussion that has been in the Ministry of Finance and since I was not Minister of Finance at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142517	In the absence of any further brief comments, I would like to thank the Minister. And I can see that the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Finn Sørensen, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511142532	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for the debate, and it is certainly right to say that the big news did not come out of it, but we did get the fronts drawn up, and that is how it is when we have an ongoing dispute in the Danish Parliament on a very important issue such as what we are dealing with here, which is of course about the vast majority of the current population, young people and a little older. We have to face up to the fact that when we fundamentally disagree, yes, we do not prevent some of the debates from repeating themselves, but sometimes it also happens in politics that if we continue long enough and the views are confronted with reality, some changes will happen anyway. And the positive change I have seen, to start with, is, after all, the attitude of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats towards the government's plans, namely that they say no to a further increase in the retirement age beyond what has already been agreed. I shall come back to that in conclusion. But first of all I would like to address again what is at the heart of this discussion on the subject of the Enhedslisten, and that is the huge injustice and untenable fact of raising the retirement age as the average life expectancy rises. Let me start again from my youngest granddaughter, little Simon in two and a half years. If this indexing is carried out as agreed by the conciliation parties, it means that little Simon has to wait until he reaches the age of 75 1⁄2 years to retire. And that is where I, as an unskilled worker, have been comfortable with a working life as an unskilled worker and a member of SiD and later 3F, have the annoyance that I have to say to little Simon: You must not become 3Fs for everything in the world, because then there is 25 per cent. The chance that you've left the labour market before your 60th birthday. If you are very lucky, you have an early retirement pension, and there is little prospect of that with the austerity that the conciliation parties behind that reform have carried out, and you cannot get your early retirement either, dear Simon, because it has become correspondingly harder. And that is how I could mention a number of other withdrawal opportunities and social security schemes that the group of unskilled workers has had. There is my question, to which none of the parties responsible for conciliation on an ongoing increase, nor have any of the government parties wanted to answer, and that is the simple question: why should people who enter the labour market at an early age, who have hard jobs, physically and mentally suffering jobs with a high risk of accidents at work, even disability, not be entitled to as many good senior years as those who have long higher education? That is the whole point of this discussion, a fundamental injustice, and perhaps that is what the Minister has seen as objective, that is to say that I have concentrated on it in this debate. Because I am very keen to engage in discussions on economics and things and I also believe that I can pierce many of the arguments that are coming, but we need to consider how the legislation that applies in this area and will apply in the future works with specific people. Then I must say to the rapporteurs who minimize the need for the people to listen to proposals from the Enhedslisten and the left, moreover, that it has been documented. As you can read in the little folder we have made about a good senior life, it is therefore a measurement, and it is not one that Enhedslisten has made that shows that 56 per cent. is seeking a lower retirement age than 68 years. Then there's the one with the work environment. After all, the National Research Centre has just documented that things are going the wrong way. And what happened? The Enhedslisten and SF made concrete proposals for actions that could be implemented here and now, but it went straight into a committee of experts. Finally, I would like to say that yes, it is positive that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats maintain their opposition to the government's plans, but at the same time I have been clearly told today that they stand by the conciliation that they have signed, and that means that by the year 2020 the two parties will have to deal with an increase in the retirement age; they have committed themselves to this in the legislation in force in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143046	There is a brief comment on Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143050	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen keeps mentioning the grandson, little Simon, 21⁄2 years old, and then I think it's relevant that we get there too: How old do you expect little Simon to be? That is what matters. What matters is that we grow older and older. So when you say that little Simon has to retire when he is 75, it sounds wild because we know 75-year-olds who die of old age, but when little Simon is 75 years old, it is very normal to be 75 years old, because you are not dying of old age. What's like the hops in this is that we're getting older and older. How old is Simon supposed to be? How old do you expect the vintage that is born now and in these years to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143139	What is totally uninteresting is what the average life expectancy will be for children of little Simon's age. What this is about is what kind of working conditions you have, when you enter the labour market and under what circumstances. That is what is relevant, according to facts from 3F, FOA, LO etc. on what the opportunities of these groups are with the jobs they now have. That is what is at the heart of that discussion, and that is what the bourgeois parties have not yet wanted to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143211	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143214	I also think it is relevant to include working conditions and whether or not one is worn out. I find it difficult to talk about what technologies will be available in 72 years' time. How does the labour market develop over the next few years, let us just say 50 years? It is quite difficult to predict, but we do agree that when people are worn out, whether it is at the age of 50, 60, 70 or 80, they must have the opportunity to retire or at least have other opportunities. But it's not irrelevant how old you get.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143252	The rapporteur to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143255	What is irrelevant are average calculations, because people have very different conditions in the labour market. And as far as the labour market is concerned, I would like to refer again to the fact that I would now like to make it a little more specific: the latest study by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work. It is a very, very valid study where you have been out asking 50,000 people to identify which way the working environment is going. And it's going the wrong way. The proportion of employees who are physically or mentally overloaded has increased. The study shows that since 2012 there have been 17 per cent. more people who are mentally overloaded, and 15%. more who are physically overloaded.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143333	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 16 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143345	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143401	Thank you. After all, we have already spent the last many hours in Question Time F 46, and there we have also discussed the human and social consequences of raising the retirement age. This resolution is about granting the right to early retirement from the labour market subject to the number of years on the labour market or the number of years of public service. If you follow Enhedslisten's proposal on senior time, it will mean that for example. For example, people on cash benefits should be able to receive senior time with a daily allowance rate of 40 on dependents and 35 years of cash insurance membership, while e.g. a school teacher who has trained and worked must spend 44 years to achieve the same advantage. I think that is basically unfair and unfair. In general, I do not believe that we should be aiming for early withdrawal for those who do not need it, but rather to go in the opposite direction and ensure better working conditions for seniors, who can work perfectly like what we have been discussing over the past many hours. Fortunately, as I said earlier today, the Danes live longer and become healthier and more healthy than ever before. It is pleasing, not least for the individual, but also for society. There is a need for the number of years on the labour market to be increased in relation to life expectancy if we want to preserve the Danish welfare society. The positions that I have expressed that we need a robust pension system, we need to support the Danes who can stay longer on the labour market, and we need to ensure good welfare for those who cannot work until the retirement age. If we suck healthy and healthy Danes out of the labour market at an early age with something similar to bourgeois pay, we will also need money to finance common welfare. Basically, I do not think it is responsible, and we certainly cannot be familiar with future generations. Instead, I think we should think long-term. That is also why, as I announced before the summer recess, the government will come up with a proposal to withdraw from the labour market. Exactly what a game is going to look like, we can discuss when it is presented. After all, we have made it clear here today, with seven-inch nails, that it is absolutely essential to say in the whole discussion about what might happen to this proposal and what it may have as a result of economic consequences that the proceeds will not be used for top tax relief. At the same time, the fact that we all live longer means that everything else equal will have more years of retirement relative to the number of years on the labour market. This means that pensioners' own savings must extend over a longer retirement period. If each person wants to maintain a good standard of living as a pensioner in the future, it therefore requires that he or she saves more for his or her pension. We can ensure this by ensuring that those who can stay longer on the labour market and not, as proposed by the Enhedslisten, withdraw earlier. Fortunately, there are also more and more people who choose to stay longer in the labour market. These are the figures we had during the debate on the question. Among other things: The number of 60-64-year-olds working has increased by approx. 10% from 2008 to 2015, and the same trend is observed for 65-66-year-olds, where the employment rate has increased by 4%. during the same period. The figures speak their clear language: there are more people who can and actually choose to stay longer in the labour market. The development of lifetime means that from a socio-economic perspective it is important that those who can stay a little longer in the labour market. That is why I believe that this motion for a resolution goes in absolutely the wrong direction. We should not withdraw from the labour market earlier, but rather help to secure the future of society, so that there will be an opportunity both to ensure good welfare, but also to ensure a well-functioning society that is competitive with the remaining countries around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143810	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143812	Thank you. I am not surprised by the fact that the Minister is rejecting the proposal. After all, however, it is an attempt to come up with a concrete proposal on how to take account of the problems that quite a lot of parties are facing with the current rules, so it would be nice if the Minister himself had some concrete ideas on how, for example, to do so. will ensure better conditions on the labour market so that all groups could hold to work longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143850	I will look forward to presenting this as part of the initiative that the government will be making here before the summer break. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen will have ample opportunity to discuss this with both me and other members of the government for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143902	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143905	I just think it's weird. We have had this debate for a very, very long time, in fact several years, and at least in the context of the adoption of the law in force in this area, where all these criticisms and reservations have been raised, yet we still have no concrete ideas on how to improve the conditions of the many, many thousands of people we are talking about. You can figure it out yourself: a quarter of the 3Fs. That's about. Eighty thousand people. In other words, was it not time that we got a little concrete, so we had a real discussion here in Parliament about what the parties really have of proposals, given that there is a concrete proposal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143947	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511143950	I note that after Enhedslisten no longer forms the parliamentary basis of the government either the old or the present government, you feel completely free. I understand that the current government is being criticised. But this is kind of a confession from sir. Finn Sørensen's side is that he also believes that the former Socialist Government has done nothing to solve this problem. I understand that, and I also have to sign for that honesty. 'Cause then, sir... Finn Sørensen had just exercised influence when there was another government. But I'm afraid you didn't make it. I can see from a book that is being published these days that one was also considering in the Enhedslisten to overthrow the then Red Government. Perhaps we should have done that in order to implement our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144028	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beyer de Ryke. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144037	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is quite right in saying that there are problems in this area, which is why it is very good to have this debate. A quarter of 3F members have left the labour market before they reach 60 years of age and those who have worked since they were 17 years of age and worked ever since cannot stand to work until they are well over 70 years of age. If you look at an unskilled person and a highly educated person, you will see that the highly educated person will typically be 5 years older and therefore receive a somewhat better and longer-term pension than the unskilled person. It just shows that we actually have a problem. But I also have my doubts as to whether this is the right solution. Should you have the right to retire on unemployment benefit after 40 years on the labour market and 35 years as a member of an unemployment fund? And should you be allowed to go down in time after 35 years on the labour market and 30 years as a cashier? You could ask yourself that. I just have to say, well, then I can retire in 7 years and go down in time in 2 years. Well, maybe my kids and others think I look like a senior, but I don't think so yet. I think it might be just early enough to start thinking it and is that really what we want? I think we need all these seniors, and instead of getting them to retire, I would rather help give them a good working life with the opportunity to stay longer on the labour market and yet some good years as a pensioner. That is why, of course, we need to revive the think tank created by the former Minister for Employment Henrik Dam Kristensen, that is to say a think tank which is intended to provide us with an idea of how we can make better senior schemes, create the opportunity to retain them in the labour market and do something for the worn out. How do we create a very good working environment? And how do we make our labour market more inclusive? These are also some of the things we need to see. At the same time, however, I would strongly recommend to the government that the think tank which they unfortunately laid down be reduced again and that the idea of a further increase in retirement age be dropped. I think that is clearly the wrong way to go. Then there is the financing of the proposal, which the proposers consider to amount to 10 billion. kr. I can be in doubt if it's gonna last. I can be in doubt whether there is more than what is stopping and whether we really have money for it. If you do something like this, it must, of course, be done much more than anything that fills a page, and when it comes to so much money, I think it is actually something that should be lifted in the context of a financial law. So I fully agree with Enhedslisten that we should take these problems of wear and tear very seriously, but with the things I have mentioned, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144315	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144318	Thank you. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that what Enhedslisten is proposing is not an obligation to withdraw. And I would like the rapporteur to say that if people have good working conditions and health that is in order, then they will continue to work long after the retirement age and also the retirement age for that matter, and that the economic difference between having a job and so on, for example. to have to retire on unemployment benefit for the vast majority of people is so large that it is not attractive for economic reasons. So I would like the rapporteur to confirm what we are actually discussing. And then I would just like to say to the rapporteur that with the argument used by the rapporteur, it is quite incomprehensible that the Social Democrats even introduced the early retirement scheme at the time. It wasn't exactly based on this principle, but the number of years on the labour market and membership of the cash register was, however, an important criterion for entitlement to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144427	I fully agree that this is not a coercion. But I just don't agree that this is the right solution. In fact, I believe that we need seniors in the labour market; we need all those who can. And what I saw is just saying, as I also said to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen in the last debate, and as I will also say in the next debate, is that we have a problem of wear and tear and of making these people stay longer on the labour market. And I am actually in favour of them staying longer on the labour market if they can. What we must then just try is to do all we can to make them stay longer on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144459	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144503	It is only then that I ask again: what are the rapporteur's concrete proposals for solutions for those people so that they can better keep to the labour market and so that it is also economically attractive? What are the concrete proposals? It's okay to shoot down what comes from the Enhedslisten. But if we recognise that there are the problems we are pointing to, then we have a commitment to come up with some concrete proposals ourselves, which we can then discuss on the basis of. Well, I really miss that from Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144538	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144541	I also think that as a member of parliament you have an obligation to listen, and Mr. Finn Sørensen didn't do it. He has not listened to my speech at all, and I think Mr. Finn Sørensen has an obligation. I said something about making better senior schemes and better working conditions, a labour market that is more inclusive. And then I also said that a think tank should be set up, which we set up when we were in government, so that it could tell us exactly what these solutions are. So I just have to say that I, too, would like to ask Mr. Finn Sørensen about listening instead of trying to turn and turn it in relation to what he wants to do. So that's another wish from here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144618	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511144625	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here is such a slightly abnormal proposal, I would say, in terms of what it all looks like. After 40 years in the labour market and 35 years in an unemployment fund, you can withdraw from the benefit rate until you reach retirement age. In other words, you get a long period of unemployment benefit. For my own part, I would have had to have had 12 years of unemployment benefit before I retired when I retire at 67 and should have stopped working at 55 if that was what I wanted. I understand from Finn Sørensen that it's a free choice. It's not like there's coercion. Yet we in the Danish People's Party do not think that it should be done in such a way that it should be measured by how long one has been in the labour market. We think, as we have also talked about in the past, and as we will also talk about in the next proposal, that we should instead look at how to ensure that those who are worn out can withdraw from the labour market on good terms on senior early retirement pensions and on senior flexible jobs and that we have better arrangements on the labour market so that they may stay there a little longer. It is instead of saying: we know you're worn out, you can retire now, and then you'll be paid the rest of the time until you have to have a pension or early retirement. I mean, not everyone's going on early retirement either. It is only one third of 3F members who can go on early retirement, so it is until retirement age that they have to go there. It is better to look at how to ensure that they can stay longer in the labour market under orderly conditions. I actually think so, sir. Finn Sørensen would like to see good conditions in order to last longer in the labour market. We also find it hard to see how the economy of this is connected. This is a huge amount of money, and it is not something we can take a position on here, because it is something that would have to be financed by a financial law if it were finally to happen. But we are not in favour of measuring by how long people are on the labour market. Even if you only enter the labour market at the age of 35, it may be that when you have been 25 or 30 years of age on the labour market, you are worn out anyway. Not everyone, like myself and probably Finn Sørensen, started working as 15-year-olds and has been on the labour market for a long time. After all, there are some who first enter the labour market at 30-35 years of age, depending on what they have studied, and there we just have to realise that even if they should be fresh and bodily and not be worn out, there are some who are worn out anyway and cannot stand it. So I think it's the wrong way to go after it. Instead of looking at when you are worn out, and if you have problems with being worn out in either legs or shoulders, or where it may be, you can get out of there on lax terms with a senior early retirement pension or a senior flexible job. I have to admit, I wouldn't like to go on early retirement myself. Then I would certainly prefer a flex job where I still had a link with the labour market. I think this is the way we should go instead. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. We understand very well the intentions and purpose of this, but as I have said, I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen would prefer that we have a society where people can stay on the labour market without being worn out, but it is enough utopia to think that we will have such a world, at least for the first many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145047	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145051	I do not think it is utopia to have such a labour market, but I agree that it is not something that lies just around the corner when you look at what the majority of this Parliament is prepared for and not prepared for. There I have to say that the Danish People's Party is part of the majority which has seriously deteriorated the conditions of the group we are talking about, i.e. those who entered the labour market early, by contributing to the deterioration of the early retirement scheme and by contributing to the deterioration of the unemployment benefit system by reducing the benefit period and making it even more difficult to re-establish the right to benefit. So I think that the Danish People's Party has a very special responsibility to come up with some concrete proposals that help that group here. Again I have to say: yes, one can easily put down a principle that the right to early retirement must be conditional on the number of years in the labour market. But then there is a commitment to come up with concrete proposals that will help the very, very large group we are talking about; it is well over 100,000 people, now to be careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145153	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145157	Well, that's true. That was also why we introduced senior early retirement pensions in the past, precisely to help people who were worn out. The fact that we could not get through with more than five years before the retirement age then is something else, but that required a majority, and we certainly did not have that at that time in the negotiations. We also want us to have senior-flex jobs, and so it is not just for these 100 per year, as the previous government proposed, because there are many more people who would be able to claim it. We do not think it should be built up, so it should be a certain number of years before you reach retirement age; it is when you are worn out that you have to have those opportunities. Whether it is 5 or 7 or 10 years before you reach retirement age is difficult to say it is different from person to person. It is in this direction that we want to go, plus that there must be better opportunities to set up working life in workplaces to suit people's needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145258	There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and proceed to mr. Klaus Markussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145307	Thank you. At the imminent risk of repeating myself, I would once again like to thank the Enhedslisten for their motion for a resolution. On the basis of their own presentations... Good senior life for everyone... Enhedslisten will make early retirement a right. I would like to begin by commending Enhedslisten for their very strong choice of words: Good senior life for everyone. Fortunately, however, I am quite convinced that all of the parties in the Folketing are fighting for a good life for all our seniors. However, I believe that the Enhedslisten's proposal is actually in the wrong direction. We should not withdraw from the labour market earlier, but rather stay a little longer. The proposal itself seems to me also to be marked by a black and white world. I do not think it makes sense to make it necessary for seniors to withdraw from the labour market their number of years. And to use the left's own rhetoric against it myself, I actually think that the proposal is misguided. The Left is not interested in introducing a right to early retirement, and certainly not to those who do not need it. Fortunately, those people who need to retire have very good opportunities either as an early retirement pension or as a flexible job. It is important that those who can stay a little longer in the labour market if we want to maintain our welfare system. That is why a broad conciliation group set aside more than 40 million. kr. to improve the resource cycle of the municipalities earlier this year. We did so in order to provide greater security for citizens' withdrawal opportunities. I believe that it is much more humane that, through a process of resource development, we clarify whether a person should withdraw from the labour market or move into a flexible job scheme, compared with the fact that the number of working years is crucial to when a citizen must spend a little time on the 2011 retirement reform, because here we made the pension system more flexible. We put the old-age pension scheme on its feet and, yes, I am aware that fewer people than expected are looking for it, but as I have already mentioned here today, I also think it is worth remembering that 90%. The pension is paid by the claimants to a senior early retirement pension. In addition to the senior early retirement pension, the flexjob reform dates from 2013 when we introduced the so-called miniflex job scheme with a minimum of 2 hours per week. Today, twice as many people over 60 work in a flex job and one in four work less than 10 hours a week. Try to consider once how many more we have moved from public support and got into the working community by reducing the minimum requirement from 12 to 2 hours of work per week. In order to return to Enhedslisten strong word games • good senior life for everyone • I'll dwell a little on all of them. Because it is important for everyone to have a dignified senior life, and that is why the Left does not believe that the good withdrawal opportunities that we have today should be replaced by the introduction of a right of withdrawal. It is important that we do not put people in the vault, and I really think that the Enhedslisten's proposal does so by making it conditional on the withdrawal of the number of years of work. Fortunately, we see that far more seniors are pushing the retirement age ahead of them and remain in the working community, but at a reduced time. We must embrace this and we must work to ensure that those who need it can withdraw in full or in part, while those who can and will have to stay a little longer on the labour market. Then we respond to both the individual and the company's hunger for skilled labour. The Left cannot support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145732	One brief comment came from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145736	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: who is it who has to decide whether people can and will stay longer in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145747	First of all, it is the individual who decides whether he or she can and indeed can, in cooperation with the authorities and according to the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145802	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145805	If it is the individual who has to decide, and I fully agree with that, what is the problem of implementing a proposal such as the Enhedslisten's, because of course it will result, as there is no compulsion to withdraw after a certain number of years, that those who can and will stay on the labour market? What, then, is the problem in adopting that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145827	In principle, I think that the starting point should be the individual. This could in principle be seen as the system versus the individual. Do you want it to be rigid, rigid rules? Or should it be based on the individual? And there it is therefore our starting point and principle that it should be based on the individual and not a right based on the number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145849	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511145856	The proposal here seeks to change the Danish pension system so that instead of basing itself on a uniform retirement age, it must be based on a number of years of work. If you want to base withdrawal on how many years you have worked, I think a natural consequence should be that periods of unemployment are not counted. I also think it is reasonable that continuing training should not be counted as part-time work, of course, should only be counted in part, and that academics' study work and overtime should be counted. And if you are going to do the big math, I do not think that it will clearly show that the low-skilled work significantly more than the academics over a life cycle. In my opinion, the whole idea is both absurd and arbitrary, because there is no particular reason why craftsmen should be able to retire earlier than academics if their health is the same and they may have worked fairly equally over a life. However, it is the case that craftsmen and academics will, on average, have a different state of health, which is reflected in the fact that the academic has a residual life at 60 years of age, which is approx. Two years longer than the skilled. Much of the left wing has been very concerned about this inequality. It can be noted, however, that the difference is less than the average difference between men and women, so perhaps, if you had to use this reasoning consistently, you should be more concerned with gender differences than differences based on educational levels. Of course, you don't get the same comfortable story out of that. We in Denmark have not only had a sharp increase in life expectancy, but also a development towards a better health condition. You can do that, for example. see that 71 per cent. of the 72-year-olds think their health is good. Ten years ago it was 63 percent. The large majority is making progress on all the observable points. It is not only economically meaningful, but also entirely reasonable, that we adapt the retirement age to life expectancy. If you look outside the broad majority, there are some who have a bad health care • people who are worn out. We had that in 2006. And if you wanted to do something specific for them, i.e. those who have poor health, I would have much more sympathy for the proposal. This proposal seems to me to be an expression of millimeter justice. I think it is an expression of a theoretical idea of a misunderstood class struggle, and I think that, in reality, the focus on the really worn out has been forgotten and we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150152	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150155	First of all, I have to correct the rapporteur in a misunderstanding. This proposal is not about the retirement age, it is about the right to early retirement. That is what is meant by the word, that is to say, it is a right to early retirement and that you then have a retirement age next to it, and we discussed it separately during the last proposal. It's kind of important that we get this straight. With this clarification, I would just like to say to the rapporteur that, alongside a right to early retirement determined by the number of years on the labour market and not determined by how worn out you are, of course, you have to have some arrangements in which those who at a very early age cannot work because of accidents at work or chronic diseases, or whatever, have the possibility of early retirement. What the rapporteur is opposed to is that those who enter the labour market early should have the right to as many good senior years as those who have high education. That's what this disagreement is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150304-2	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech: if you want this withdrawal, what about the academics' study work during their studies? What about all the overtime they've worked over the years? Is that supposed to count? What about parttime workers? And what about the period you've been free in the middle of the period you have to pull it out, and how do you want to make it up? If you do the whole calculation, which I think will be rather bureaucratic, is one convinced that the low-educated really work more than the academics in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150340	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150341	Now that discussion is taking place on two levels. There is a very brief motion for a resolution on the principle of the right to early retirement conditional on the number of years in the labour market. If there were a majority for the government to work on this, there would be a discussion and a debate on how to measure it. The second level is what we have described as an example in the Enhedslisten's proposal. And the questions put by the rapporteur have been answered, for example. on study time. What is termed an internship in a course of study counts as a number of years in the labour market, and the question of part-time workers has also been taken into account. So I can encourage the rapporteur to study our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150420	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150421	But the whole principle that you have the right to retire, if you are healthy, only because you have been on the labour market x number of years, we do not share. In relation to the second part on internship, I say that I think that if there is any reasonableness in it, study work during a study should count. That is what I said, that is to say that I should also count on it, just as I believe that part-time work should only be counted in part and that unemployment and continuing training should be withdrawn. So even if we went down to that level, there would still be some disagreements. But I do not share the principle and therefore we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150456	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150501	In the alternative, we think this proposal is good policy. I think it is characterised by the fact that it responds to a real need of the population, and it does good policy. I have also said this to the media when they have called to hear the Alternative's opinion on Enhedslisten's good senior life for everyone. In the alternative, we are inspired by the German model, where Germans, who have been 45 years on the labour market, can retire at the age of 63. It is 2 years earlier than the German retirement age of 65 years. In its presentation of the pension package, the German Government stresses that the reduction should be seen as a recognition for many years of faithful service. It's not something people get. That is something they have earned themselves, they say. For example, in the survey for 45 years on the labour market, general wage, apprenticeship and certain forms of further training are included. On the other hand, studies at the university, for example, do not count. In this way, unskilled people with shorter training will benefit from the rules. In fact, the German Government expects that 200,000 Germans will be able to withdraw every year under the new, more relaxed rules. Now I know that Enhedslisten's model differs somewhat from the German one that the Alternative prefers, but I think that Enhedslisten's model has so many common denominators with what inspires us, that is to say, the German model, that there is much more that unites us than there divides us. That is why I think that Enhedslisten's proposal is an excellent proposal for negotiations on a good, flexible pension system, which we in the Alternative believe we should start sewing together as soon as the gentlemen and ladies, the government, are history only, and Denmark has once again got a red-green majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150653	It also made a comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150657	Well, that is only a thank you to the rapporteur for entering into the concrete discussion and then come and say that here is a principle on which we can work. If we have to decide, if we can say so, we have a slightly different version of it. And that's what we need. That is not to say that all parties that do not support our proposal are simply unconstructive. They will only be if they do not make specific proposals, and that is why I welcome the rapporteur's speech. Then we can have a longer talk, so far unfortunately only with ourselves and each other and not with the other parties, but that is the way we should go, because there are thousands of people out there who would like an answer to: What about me? At the age of a continued increase in the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150745	Absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150752	Then we stop that dialogue. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Then we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511150802	I think the questioner knows where the Radical Left stands here, but I would, of course, like to explain it. We cannot support the motion for a resolution. We are actually very concerned about investing in our children, and we believe that we are doing the best we can if we bring forward the retirement age agreement we have concluded for five years, because then we will have the opportunity to invest massively. It also means, of course, that there will be people who cannot remain in the labour market, both now and in advance. That is already the case today, and I believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen also knows very well that I am quite concerned that we also have some opportunities for those people who are already worn out either physically or mentally or in other ways before they reach retirement age. That is also why we have proposed a senior early retirement scheme which is better and far more extended than what is today. As we also mentioned in some of the previous debates, we are very sorry that the government closed down the senior think tank that the SR government had set up, because I think we need to discuss and examine what opportunities there are for a better senior labour market and also for greater flexibility. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see how it could be measured in specific sectors or a specific number of years on the labour market. There are so many other factors also in the labour market of the future that will affect the development of our working life. I think it is important that if you are worn out or at risk of it, then preventive action should be taken. These are also some of the discussions we have had in this Parliamentary Hall this week on the psychological working environment. It is extremely important to prevent much better there. However, it is not necessarily the number of years in the labour market that determines what it is that is being worn out, and therefore it must be flexible and not in relation to how many years you have been on the labour market and what technology then develops, but in relation to the individual and the needs of that person.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151055	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151058	Thank you. I just want to make it clear that Enhedslisten's proposal for a good senior life, as we call it, is not about which industries you have been in. It is only about the number of years on the labour market, and we have presented ourselves with a very precise model of how to calculate it. I shall not use my speaking time for that. I am well aware that the rapporteur is aware of the issue of a senior early retirement pension. We will discuss this in the next item, so I will save the substance of it a little. I think that is a good thing, although I do not think it solves the problem. What is the really big problem with the Radicals' proposal is that a better early retirement pension and many other important things should be financed by an ever higher retirement age, since it supports the Government's idea of a further increase, and then it is a tiny step forward and three giant steps backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151158	I completely disagree with the rapporteur because this presupposes that all people in the labour market are equal and that everyone is being worn out. It is precisely the starting point here that we, who can, also have a duty to do so, because the alternative is • and that is why I brought in the various elements, because in one way or another it is related to whether we should have a retirement age that depends on how many years you have been on the labour market. I do not think that it is possible to assess this criterion alone, just as it cannot be estimated that, by bringing forward an agreement on retirement age, which the rapporteur knows and has pointed out has already been made and exists, it should mean a step backwards. On the contrary, it means that we can then invest massively in the next generations, because the alternative is that we do not do it and leave the bill there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151301	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151303	No, the problem is that every time the Radical Left, together with other parties, helps to increase the retirement age, one leaves an even larger group affected by the huge injustice that is in relation to their ability to get as many good senior years as those who have higher education and have earned a lot of money and found themselves good jobs that are developing and all that. It is, after all, the enormous injustice that is being increased, plus that with the withdrawal arrangements that exist, thousands more are left without any possibility of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151343	I also disagree with the rapporteur. It is already the case today that people who cannot work until the age of 67 have great challenges. These are the ones we should take care of with some more flexible options and among others. prevention and also the opportunities to move into the labour market if we are to have something that does not wear out. What's it gonna take? This requires us to invest massively in education, continuing training, a completely different kind of system that allows us to move to the labour market before we become worn out. This requires prioritising, and I do not see the rapporteur's intention to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151428	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151434	SF appreciates Enhedslisten's attempt to present a model that offers more opportunities for hard-working people to have some good and dignified years as seniors, and we think it is a good contribution to an important debate that far, so good. But we also think that the proposal contains a number of problems. I think that the system is far too square. There are also clear advantages of this, namely that it will be easy to understand, and an arrangement such as this one will be based on transparent and clear rights. On the other hand, it does not take into account the fact that our lives are very different. I also think that the proposal raises the idea that the Enhedslisten might have had a meeting in which everyone has almost had their finger up and contributed to the debate, especially by proposing another improvement. I can at least say that it will be impossible to surpass this proposal from the Enhedslisten. I have the impression that everyone who had his finger at this meeting has been met or perhaps even surpassed by another party comrade who just thinks that even more should be given even more money. I just have to say that it was not possible to defend the post-retirement salary; on the contrary, it was a large majority who decided in the 2011 elections that the post-retirement salary should be destroyed. The Enhedslisten's proposal is not only a re-establishment of the post-retirement wage, but a major improvement. The proposal means that a great many people will be able to go on this new pre-retirement salary at 56-year-old, 57-year-old or 58-year-old and not just on the old pre-retirement rate, but on full daily allowance. If I were to find a very nice word for it, I would call it overbidden policy; that is, a much lower age limit for a significantly higher benefit. So we would rather see in the SF that the money is spent more precisely so that it helps those people who really need a helping hand. Instead of relying on Enhedslisten's proposal, I think it would be better to try to find out how many years the citizens have left in the labour market when calculating their pension date. The Enhedslisten's proposal treats citizens equally, regardless of the life they have had. SF thinks it is a good contribution because it keeps the necessary debate going on about how we can put a model together for our seniors, and I think that is an interesting contribution. I am sure that the German model and part of the Norwegian model have been tried here in the Enhedslisten's proposal. It's a good contribution, but more than that, I don't really think I can swing up to call it that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151803	And we will have a comment on that now from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151806	Thank you. It almost speaks for itself that it is referred to as a good contribution, and then, in the same breath, it is described as a policy of outbidding and, I think, takes excessive account of the fact that it did not succeed in obtaining a majority against the destruction of the early retirement scheme. And then you come to the conclusion that we shouldn't fight for anything that looks like. That's too bad. The purpose of this is to guarantee some rights. The rapporteur has clearly understood this, i.e. some rights for those who entered the labour market early so that they do not have to stand with their hats in their hands or be forced to work until they fall dead. That is the basic idea of this proposal. The rapporteur rejects this. That is fair enough, but I would just like to ask: what rights does the rapporteur have as a proposal for something that can benefit a group of people whom, moreover, we agree to defend when we discuss the issue of a higher retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511151909	As I said, I admit that the strength of this Enhedslisten proposal is that it will be easily understandable and easily transparent and based on rights so that everyone can figure out when to have their pension. That's a clear strength of it. What I do not think is so strong is that it is possible not only to pay early retirement but also to make a substantial improvement in pre-retirement pay, that is to say, in full cash benefits, and for some people already at the age of 56. There I think you simply miss the dial in the Enhedslisten, I have to say. I would rather spend the money on helping those people who have actually had some hard lives. Because even if you have entered the labour market at the age of 16 or 17, you do not have to be worn out. It also depends on what kind of work you have had and what kind of life you have lived. There may be many factors in the matter. That is why SF has put forward a proposal for a real wear-out pension, which I agree to also have some weaknesses. It is not, of course, because we have invented something completely brilliant with the wear-out pension. But it is an attempt to make a contribution to the question of how we can give some more people a helping hand into the senior years. I just think this is overbiding politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152013	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152014	I am really sorry that the rapporteur considers the current rate of unemployment benefit and its coverage of non-wage income to be a policy of outbidding. In other words, the rapporteur is well aware, because the rapporteur's party has been involved in this decision itself, that there is a pool of rates which undermines the value of the daily allowance and that in 2012 a tax reform was adopted which very drastically undermines the value of the daily allowance. So I am sorry that the rapporteur considers such a rate to be a policy of outbidding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152054	That's ridiculous, too, and Mr. Cole knows that. Finn Sørensen quite well. He knows he's mixing things up completely here. When you are unemployed, it is typical for a shorter period of time, and the insurance scheme that you have entered into by being a member of an unemployment insurance fund can, for a period of time, insure you against unemployment. There is talk here of giving some people the right to 10 years of full unemployment benefit without any counterclaims, that is to say only to go home on unemployment benefit for a 10-year period before going to a retirement pension. There is no point in comparing such a pre-retirement payment with an insurance scheme in the event of unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152130	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152146	Thank you and thank you for the debate. Let me reply to the last remark made by Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge first. After all, it is a question of having to be insured in your insurance fund in order to benefit from the scheme. This means that at that stage there are the same requirements as there are in relation to entitlement to benefit. And in relation to the rate, which is obviously a major problem, it is funny that it is the SF's rapporteur who points out that there are problems with the dependency that lies in this. I do not think other rapporteurs have said so much about this, they have dealt more with the principle. And it has also been a little more relevant, one can say, because it is the principle that we are dealing with here. However, there I must only defend the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten, which is not really to be voted on here and say that an allowance rate, an allowance level, from the moment you have to leave the labour market or when you choose to do so because you have worked for 40 years, is a much more reasonable basis for retirement until the age of the population than the opportunities that are available if you have lost your entitlement to benefit after 2 years and cannot reclaim it if you come on cash aid with a ceiling and everything and depend on your spouse's income. That is why it really surprises me, and I think it is sad and unfortunate that it is precisely on the part of the SF that one should hear criticism that we want to ensure that people who have been on the labour market for a very long time are given a reasonable level of remuneration so that they can achieve an ever-decreasing retirement age. Because that's what's driving this proposal. I must say that to all the other rapporteurs too, especially to those parties who are so keenly in favour of raising the retirement age: that is, of course, the driving force behind a proposal such as this one, among other proposals such as that, Mr President. Torsten Gejl has come along to look at the German model, which is also based on years on the labour market. The reason we have that discussion is, of course, that there is a large majority in this Parliament who are determined to raise the retirement age as an average increase in life expectancy. That discussion would have been different if the early retirement scheme had not been destroyed if proper opportunities had been provided for early retirement and the retirement age had not been raised. Then I do not think we had discussed such proposals. That is the driving force, and I think we argue for that every time we have this discussion. Then it is fair enough to say: No, we do not like that model. Then we are still missing, and I will continue to call for concrete proposals on how to help the many, many thousands of people who get scalded every time you raise their retirement age. And we haven't heard that yet. Yes, in a few moments we will be discussing a concrete proposal that Enhedslisten will consider to be an improvement in the early retirement scheme, quite clearly. However, one has to recognise that it only helps a very small group of the very, very large group that gets hijacked every time you increase the retirement age. So that will be my final comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152525	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152527	I think that a lot of people can be excused for not knowing the difference between being on an early retirement scheme and being unemployed in the cash register. Sir. Finn Sørensen is not one of them. Sir. Finn Sørensen makes a totally unreasonable mix of things and says: Why should we not reach what is called a reasonable substitute? And here I am confirmed by the fact that there has been a meeting where the party comrades in the Enhedslisten have alternately raised their finger and agreed that the amounts should be raised constantly and put as many people as possible in the longest possible time on the highest possible benefits. But it is simply not an objective, even for the SF. There's how can mr. Finn Sørensen think of that among the two things together? In this context, what I am saying is that if you really think, ten years before the age of retirement, that you should have what corresponds to full unemployment benefit, which other groups in society should not also have a reasonable dependency base? Why should not a retirement pension also be on it if it is a reasonable substitute? What about cash benefits recipients and all sorts of other types of public recipients? Shouldn't they all be at the highest daily allowance rate, sir? Finn Sørensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152638	Now, sir. Karsten Hønge's argument is a little different than when he was on the platform, and then I have to ask Mr Hønge. Karsten Hønge, if that is what he is concentrating on: Does that mean that if this rate, which you are now entitled to after 40 years on the labour market, was slightly lower, Mr. Karsten Hønge then be prepared for a further discussion of such a proposal? Is that what's in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152703	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152706	Well, now I have to get into the slipstream of a former rapporteur who has been on the platform and asked Mr. Finn Sørensen to simply listen because otherwise it does not make sense to stand here in Parliament and have a dialogue. It simply does not make sense if Mr. Finn Sørensen will not or will not be able to reflect on what is actually being said. In my rapporteur's speech, I mentioned several good reasons why there are some strengths in this proposal and several good reasons why there are some weaknesses. One of the reasons is that you end up on a very high level of support, which will draw a lot of people onto this scheme, where 10 billion. kr. is not near proposing to pay for it. And there it is just that I am arguing in this regard that the money can be used more purposefully. But now, as far as I can understand, the division of roles here is that Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur must try to train in answering the questions I am asking and not just ask questions the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152750	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152751	In other words, I do not share the view of the SF rapporteur that this scheme will involve a great many people in the provision we are proposing here. The people who can work will, of course, do so because the economic difference between having an unskilled job and then going down to a benefit rate is very, very large if it is a full-time job. It is as simple as that and it is a criticism that we agree on in many other contexts. So I do not at all share the rapporteur's view that this should be a policy of outbidding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152832	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152844	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511152859	With the motion for a resolution No. B 120, which we are going to deal with here today, SF will introduce a right to a senior early retirement pension if you cannot work at least 71⁄2 hours a week. Basically, I would like to stress that I am opposed to centrally set limits on when to work and when to be able to do so. I think it is crucial that we insist that the award of a senior early retirement pension should be based on a concrete and individual assessment of the individual's overall situation, just as is the case when granting ordinary early retirement. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the Government's aim is that as many people as possible should contribute to the labour market with the resources they now have. There are a number of different schemes that can help seniors, who are approaching retirement age and who can no longer cope with full-time work. That is the direction in which we must continue, among other things. by ensuring flexible working conditions for seniors who can work, even if it is not too full. Before I allow myself to go further in that direction, I would like to clarify what the purpose is for senior early retirement pensions, and therefore also what the purpose was not introduced with the withdrawal agreement in 2011 to ensure faster and simpler access to early retirement for worn-out persons close to retirement age. Senior early retirement pension is merely a more flexible procedure for granting early retirement. Senior early retirement pension is not intended to extend the entitlement to early retirement. Senior pre-retirement pensions are targeted at people who are worn out or have significant health problems after a long working life and who have up to 5 years of age until the age of the population. The ability to work must be reduced to such an extent that one is unable to support oneself in a regular job or flex-job, just as is also the case under the general rules on early retirement. At the same time, the citizen is entitled to a decision by the municipality within 6 months. I think this is a sensible and proper arrangement, because we should not just send people on early retirement because they have reached a certain age. With a senior early retirement pension, we ensure a more flexible procedure for those close to the retirement age. Contrary to the general rules on early retirement, the municipality alone has to decide whether the ability to work is substantially and permanently reduced in relation to the jobs and job functions that the citizen will be able to perform here and now. The municipality should therefore not be involved in resource or business practices. This is a claim in cases of ordinary early retirement. The fact that development measures are not to be looked at or initiated also means that the target group for early retirement is different from the target group for flex jobs with the very few hours per week. It is true, as the SF points out in its comments on the motion for a resolution, that today we can offer flexible jobs to people who currently have such a limited capacity to work that they can only work very few hours in the first place. But here it is also important to insist that the few hours should become more within a reasonable period of time. Here too, emphasis is placed on the development perspective. It is clear from the legislation that citizens with currently very limited working capacity can only be awarded a flex job for very few hours if they have a potential for development. SF refers to this very special possibility as a justification for introducing a relaxed admission to early retirement via the rules on early retirement. SF also writes directly in the comments that you can now be refused a senior early retirement pension when there is a hypothetical possibility that you can do a flex job. This applies regardless of how few hours or minutes the person can work in flex jobs. But it's wrong. For when a citizen applies for a senior early retirement pension, the municipality must look only at the current working capacity of the citizen and not at whether citizens can develop their ability to work in a flexible job. This means, in short, that you cannot be refused a senior early retirement pension on the grounds that you can start a flexible job in a very few hours. Next, let me also remind you that in 2016 approx. 8,400 new early retirement pensions. About 1,500 were awarded to persons over 60 years of age. In fact, this is about the same number that was awarded before the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. In other words, many early retirement pensions are still being awarded to people over 60 years of age, even if the development of the use of early retirement pensions does not give that impression. The development of the use of senior early retirement pensions should be seen in the light of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, which entered into force on 1 January 2013 and thus also changed the needs and foundations of the senior early retirement scheme. The aim of the reform was precisely to enable as many people as possible to contribute to the labour market with the resources of the individual. The flex-job scheme was more targeted at people with a limited ability to work, as I have already mentioned. It is an attractive scheme compared to early retirement. For example, are you... in flex jobs for 5 hours a week to 150 DKK. per hour, you will receive a monthly income of about 20,000 kroner. before tax, of which the 16,700 DKK. will consist of the grant. This is higher than the maximum early retirement age for single people of approx. 18,000 kroner. and higher than the early retirement pension for married or cohabitants who receive approx. 15,500 kroner. a month in early retirement. The new rules for flexible jobs mean, for example, that: worn-out seniors with a significantly reduced ability to work can now get a flexible job and continue to be part of the labour market and therefore also of the working community. And so it is of great importance to a great many people that they can continue to be part of the labour market, part of a community and have work colleagues instead of having to leave the labour market early. In the past it was not really possible to get a flex job unless you could work at least 12 hours a week. Right now we can be pleased that approx. 20,000 people in a flex job are employed for up to 10 hours a week and nearly 2,500 of them are over 60 years of age. And we can see that more and more people over the age of 60 are being searched for a flex job. In 2011, approx. 600 people over 60 years a flex job. In 2016, it had more than doubled to approx. 1,500 people. In fact, I think it is positive that more people have been given the opportunity to slow down working life before they finally retire. And this shows that we are now more able than in the past to maintain seniors in the labour market as well. It is therefore not surprising that the approach to the senior early retirement scheme has been less than was technically assumed back in 2011, when the new rules on flexible jobs could not be taken into account. Following this, I have also pointed out earlier today that nine out of ten citizens who have applied for early retirement have actually been granted it. There is therefore no indication that the low number of old-age pensions awarded is due to restrictive or problematic administrative practices in the municipalities or that the rules do not work. But having said that, last summer the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, also called STAR, sent out a new guide to both municipalities and citizens on senior early retirement pensions to raise awareness of the scheme. In any event, lack of knowledge should not be the reason why the scheme is not being used. Therefore, I will also shortly send a follow-up letter to the municipalities in order to keep the focus on the scheme and also include some of the comments that have been made during the debate here in the Assembly Hall. And it is worth saying that one of those who has mentioned it, among other things. Today, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who has already said that he believes that there is a need to do something further to draw attention to what the rules of this offer are like. But back to SF's proposals, where SF specifically wants to judge people out of the labour market if their ability to work exactly falls below an hour limit. I agree with the SF that people who are worn out for a long life on the labour market should be given the opportunity for a dignified withdrawal, but I think they do now. We have a number of good schemes and the flex job scheme is one of them. I also recognise that the work of some industries can be physically harder and cause the risk of wear and tear at an early age. I also recognise that it is going the wrong way for parts of our working environment, and it is important that we do not forget the very reason for the wear and tear. For part of the solution is that there is effective prevention in the workplace and that employers also face up to their responsibilities. This is among other things. also why we are currently discussing the setting up of a committee of experts to help rethink the whole work environment and, indeed, try to think about some other ways to ensure that we safeguard our working environment. To this I can also say that yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting with the Working Conditions Council for the first time, and that it was actually signed that we now allow ourselves to think freely in relation to a much better work environment and was also really signed up for them to become part of the work. Let me conclude by saying that, on behalf of the government, I cannot support the proposal presented here today by the SF, but I can actually sign up for this debate. It is rare for me to be able to do so, but it must also be done when you can. In fact, I think it is very, very important that, regardless of what you think about any of these current issues, we constantly focus on the part that is about seniors in the labour market, which I must also acknowledge has some more difficult conditions in terms of being maintained in the labour market and which has many challenges. And regardless of what may have been decided in the past in relation to the laying down or not of think tanks, I have also noted the message that politicians have sent today about the importance of having an active senior policy. I would like to send out a signal today that it is also one of the things that I have my own focus on, i.e. how you can perhaps think more of policy areas across, not least in order to strengthen seniors' ability to be part of the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511153939	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511153943	I am aware of the request made by STAR last year, and now I understand from the Minister that a further request will be made, and I think that is a good idea. That is fine, because I am sure that some of the reasons why so few people apply to the scheme are also quite trivially unaware. So it was a good initiative last year and it is good that the Minister is doing it again. But can the Minister come closer to some estimate of what the objective is? I know that it is not an end in itself to get people to go to senior early retirement, but in 2011 they tried to estimate how many would be covered by it. Have you come a little closer to when you think you've reached the potential of this scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154026	I think that is hard to say because there have been several things that have changed since the 2011 agreement: first, that you have made some other reforms, which have of course, you might say, removed the background to the estimate that was in 2011, but then I think that the discussion we have had today, as Mr. Karsten Hønge also very rightly raises the issue of knowledge and how the municipalities work on the whole issue, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has also highlighted through several debates here in the Parliament hall, that you can actually offer an offer of an arrangement that you may not be good enough to know about today. So it's not that I don't want to answer Mr. Karsten Hønge. I just think it is difficult to give a proper answer to that question, but I think that part of what we are facing is a much more focused political effort in this area in relation to what the regulatory framework is like today. There, I think, it has not been well enough communicated to say what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154133	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154134	But does the Minister not think that part of what could help to make it easier to understand, more accessible and also more useful is that we put in an hour? I am not going to stand by the fact that it has to be 71⁄2 it is just because it corresponds to 1 day a week but if the minister thinks it should only be 5 hours, then we can talk about it, and so far it can also be higher than the 71⁄2 hours. This is more the point of arguing why, in the case of early retirement, you do not have a lower limit. I think we should have it there too, but we can make a coherent argument as to why we do not think we should have it. I'm just having a really hard time seeing that in relation to senior pre-retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154211	I do not think I should prolong the debate any further. Now I have spent quite a lot of time reviewing the difference between early retirement and early retirement, and I am not therefore of the opinion, which I also started by saying that one has to make some centrally fixed number of hours. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154229	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We start with the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154237	I think we have had some very good debates today. We've come very well around seniors. We have become somewhat wiser on the arrangements that are there. We have also learned that there are some of those who can be talked about a little more and be briefed a little more. I think we have had a very, very good debate. Now it is about the senior early retirement pension. In this way, we fully agree that the senior early retirement scheme has not solved the problems of our worn-out and also that the senior flexible job scheme proposed by the Left Government, which would include 100 seniors, cannot actually be called a solution. Having said that, we do not believe that the solution is simply to grant early retirement to the seniors of the future, and that is why we have just helped to make the early retirement reform and, above all, the flex job reform, which has received fewer early retirement, and which has received more flex jobs and led to fewer flex jobs in unemployment. So are we in the finish line? No, not at all, but I hope that we will come, and that is why I am very much looking forward to when, in the conciliation circle over at the Minister, we are going to evaluate these reforms and look at possible improvements. But I think it is important to take this debate, and I would like to commend SF for doing so. Because what are our answers to those who have a hard job, that is, those who are worn out? These are also the ones on which the left in particular had a great deal of focus today. It is, of course, important to ensure that people who are worn out and cannot work have a dependent basis, but future senior policy must be based on the principle that as many people as possible maintain a link with the labour market as long as possible. We think it is better to work, for example. 1-2 days a week in a flex job than on early retirement, and therefore our senior policy also goes on three legs, which depend on each other. We must both prevent labour market wear and tear and increase labour market inclusiveness so that as many people as possible can maintain a link with the labour market and, at the same time, we must also deal with seniors who cannot work. That's why the government should admit that and I say that again, because it's important to me that it made a mistake when it closed the SR government's senior think tank, and it should get it reopened in a hurry. But now it is about evaluating the early retirement reform and the flex job reform and looking at the problems and getting them the country really well, and then it is about stopping the government's plans to force the worn-out to work even longer. I am not so sure, however, that what the SF is proposing is the right solution. As I await an evaluation of these reforms, which I also think are important, and as everything is playing together somewhere, and as I am in fact also in doubt somewhere, whether the funding is going to last. I cannot really see that part in relation to what the Social Democratic Party is saying. However, it is important for me to say that this is an important debate we have, and we will also discuss it even more when we need to evaluate things, and rather certainly here in the Chamber several times in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154548	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154550	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive but, of course, also critical reception that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen made our proposal. In other words, we know the debate about the advantages and disadvantages of setting a minimum time limit for early retirement, but the arguments that are used against it which I do not think are very strong, but I do acknowledge that the arguments are there............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen indicates whether the Social Democrats consider this to be one of the options? And it's not the 7.5 hours it's supposed to be, but the fact that you put in an hour, so it makes it much easier for cashiers, job centres and trade unions to be able to relate to this senior early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154643	Well, what's incredibly important to me when you assess whether people are sick and if they have working ability is not really to look at how many hours they can work it is to look at whether there are any opportunities to develop them. It also keeps saying that you have to look at the possibility of developing them and whether they can bite their way into the labour market and get out for a few hours. If anyone can do that, I think they actually have the best chance of being on the labour market. That is why I think we should take that discussion, and I know that both Mr. Karsten Hønge and I are in the conciliation circle, and I have no doubt that we will be discussing it again today. And then we have to have that discussion, but I am not so sure that this is the right solution, because there are also a great many people with whom we have also talked, who have started with fewer hours and who have actually had several hours today, and for them it might have been pretty bad if we had set some minimum number of hours. But, of course, I am always ready to discuss that part, and we will do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154740	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154741	That's right there, I think, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is mixing it together, for that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen does, after all, use the arguments against an hour in an early retirement context. I do not think the rapporteur's arguments are strong enough, but I recognise that one can argue in the way Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen does, in relation to early retirement, where you can use the argument to develop a working capacity. But here we are talking about senior early retirement, and they should not develop anything at all... they should have some good years as seniors. That is why I am again trying to ask whether social democracy could not come before us in relation to the senior early retirement pensioners, in other words that a number of hours should be added in this area so that it would make it much easier for all parties to be able to deal with the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154823	If I remember correctly, it is the case that when it comes to assessing whether a person should be on a senior pre-retirement pension, at least you have to look at whether it makes sense and they are not put on resource courses, internship and such things. So it goes without saying that if it is a matter of very few hours and there is no development in it, it makes no sense to send a person into a job then he must have a senior early retirement pension. That's what I think the employees at the job centres have to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511154903	Thank you, President. This SF proposal in the Danish People's Party is a sympathetic proposal. We agree that we must look at it and, at least, do what we can to ensure that those who are worn out in the labour market can withdraw in good order. That was the reason for the appointment of the senior early retirement pension. One should be able to leave the labour market when one can prove that one was worn out in the work one had. Of course, it had to be a doctor's certificate and everything. Then, in a very short time, you would have to have clarification on a senior early retirement pension. It was so little watered down when the big agreement on early retirement and flexible job reform was made. There the conciliation parties took the senior early retirement pension under the umbrella, and then it became a little the same rules. I think that's what's hurting it, and that's why it's hard today to get this thing going. The municipalities see it as if it is the same round that you have to go through and that you have to go through the same treatment and that you have to be very, very worn out in order to get a senior early retirement at all. But enough about it. In this proposal, the SF proposes that you should be entitled to a senior early retirement pension. If you have a working capacity to work for 71⁄2 hours or less per week, you must be entitled to it. We fully understand that. I'm just not sure we're gonna lock up in an hour. We must also take into account those who would like to have a flexible job and remain in the labour market. Of course, there must also be an opportunity to do so. So I think you have to see it as a combination of senior pre-retirement and senior flexible jobs. We believe that it needs to be developed more and made more accessible to those who are worn out. They should not stand with their hats in their hands and ask to be allowed to come under that arrangement. It has to be more firm by saying that if they come and are worn out, they have to come under that arrangement. It must then be clarified whether they should have a senior early retirement pension or a senior flexible job, and I believe that Mr. Karsten Hønge is determined that this is the way to look. In fact, I have not got the impression that Karsten Hønge has anything against people who, if they would rather have a senior flexible job, can get it instead of a senior early retirement. That's not how I've seen it. We have a bit of difficulty with the funding that is, because it is tied up with the withdrawal reform, it says. And that funding is probably a little more tricky. It's probably something where you have to go in and say you have to go through a finance bill if you're going to see that money. I will not guarantee that the government has not spent the money that Mr. Karsten Hønge believes that there is a surplus to something else. I won't be able to say anything about that. After all, that was a long time ago. I'm not sure there's a box of excess money from the senior early retirement pension that we can just take off. In the Danish People's Party we are in any case in favour of it, but we cannot then vote in favour of it. I guess we'll end up voting yellow for it. And we also think that this is something that needs to be worked on. That is also what I think is evident from today's debate, so there should be a huge majority who thinks that we should have a good early retirement scheme and a senior flexible job scheme. We must hope and believe that an agreement can be reached. But I can also hear that this is something that needs to be done in the conciliation group dealing with senior early retirement and flexible jobs. It's on Mr. Kevin's hands. Karsten Hønge has more access to than I and the Danish People's Party, as we are not with, and Enhedslisten is not with either. So I guess that Mr. Karsten Hønge also says his wish for this. But SF has to do what they do in that conciliation circle. In any case, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the proposal, but we do not like it with the economy. We cannot really see through how and how the money is. As I said, we do not like it with a certain number of hours. But I get it. Karsten Hønge, that it is also under discussion and that you do not have to lock on to a certain number of hours, and if people would rather have a flex job, they must of course also have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155345	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155348	First of all, thank you for the constructive and friendly way in which the Danish People's Party has accepted the resolution. It also sounds as if we could probably get a proposal massaged if we spent some time, because it is simply not crucial for the SF whether it is 5 hours or 71⁄2 hours or 10 hours. We're just looking for ways to get better at making this offer fit for the people who are out there. That is why I should like to ask Mr Seligman a question. Bent Bøgsted: Now that 650 people have accepted the scheme when the scheme was introduced, it was estimated that by 2020 8,500 people would have been included in the scheme, Dansk Folkeparti has some suggestions on how to spread the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155435	Well, what can be done is that the Ministry of Employment grabs the municipalities and makes sure they get proper guidance on this. However, I understand that the guidance on early retirement is something that needs to be agreed in the conciliation circle on early retirement, and that is where it would be appropriate to include it. I think that there should be a direct message to the municipalities that if people who come are worn out of the work they have and cannot do that work anymore, then they should consider a senior early retirement pension or a flexible job. That is what was our entry into it at the time of the reform, and it is still in force. The conciliation circle could, of course, send out to the municipalities and say that this is the way the rules are, but unfortunately that is not what is being sent out to the municipalities. So I would advise Mr. Karsten Hønge to take it up in the conciliation circle and see if you could just see how it is in this guide that is being sent out to the municipalities, because something needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155540	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155541	If I just believed that a guide and a campaign for this would be enough, but there's just nothing to suggest it is. What I often think we encounter when we present the scheme to people it may be in a-boxes or other places where you are at the meeting is that you do not expect you to meet the criteria of the scheme. One can then discuss in another context what the criteria should be in relation to getting the ordinary early retirement pension. But Mr. Is it not Bent Bøgsted that with this scheme, which is specifically aimed at a very specific group of people, there is simply a need to make some rights a little clearer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155619	Yeah, sure. So, my problem is that when the agreement on early retirement and flexible work was made, the senior early retirement pension was lifted into the big agreement on early retirement and flexible work, which is why the senior early retirement pension is under the umbrella and covered by the settlement that lies there. That is, in fact, the big problem. And maybe that's why there's so much reluctance in the conciliation circle to just make some deals in this area right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155649	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155649-2	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Now I'm sympathetic to this proposal, and it's nice to meet some people who are. But that's why we don't have to be holy. However, I do not understand why the rapporteur continues to say that the senior early retirement pension has been moved into the conciliation circle on early retirement. I am aware that no changes were made to the Social Pensions Act in the case of a senior early retirement pension. That's sir. Bent Bøgsted, who is part of that settlement, was the fig leaf of the Danish People's Party slashing excuse for undermining the early retirement scheme. So, sir. Bent Bøgsted, with my best conviction, is the conciliation party on the issue of senior early retirement. Enhedslisten and SF aren't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155742	The problem with that, I would like to say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, of course, is that it was part of the welfare settlement, but it was lifted into the early retirement and flexible job reform. That is why the Social Democrats are so opposed to it that they do not want to do anything here because it is in there in the agreement. I remember that from the time when the negotiations were there, namely that it was lifted in there. And it doesn't lie, so it's for free play in the welfare settlement. But we can ask that question, we can get the Minister to clarify that once and for all. Is it part of the settlement, or is it not? And if that is not the case, then I think we should jointly put forward a proposal on how to secure a senior early retirement pension. That's absolutely clear. But it is our view that it is in there in that conciliation. But let us get this straight from the Minister once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155836	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155837	Thank you. Well, we'll have to. This is probably a parliamentary talk for all those who sit and listen, but it is important to find out who has the power, if that is the case. What are some conciliation parties that have the power over the system called senior early retirement? Surely we need to clarify this so that we can find out who it is we need to push our stomachs to get a proper arrangement. So we just have to ask the Minister together to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155903	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155907	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, and we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Bøgsted. Klaus Markussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511155911	Thank you, sir. President. SF now wants to relax the rules for the award of a senior early retirement pension, so that even if you can work a few hours a week, you can still get a senior early retirement pension. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the SF writes a lot about dignity and a worthy withdrawal. After all, no one can disagree that we have to make sure. And that is precisely why, in connection with the withdrawal agreement in 2011, we introduced the senior early retirement pension, which is precisely the clear objective of ensuring that people who are worn out or have significant health problems after a long working life have faster and simpler access to early retirement. Senior early retirement pension is merely a more flexible procedure for granting early retirement. It is therefore not intended to extend the right to early retirement, and therefore it is not a new early retirement scheme. The senior pre-retirement pension is targeted at people who are worn out or have significant health problems after a long working life and who have up to 5 years of age until their retirement age. Because this is an early retirement scheme, the ability to work must be reduced to such an extent that you are unable to support yourself in a normal job or in a flexible job, just as is also the case under the general rules on early retirement. In contrast to the general rules, however, the municipality must decide only on the extent to which the ability to work is substantially and permanently reduced in relation to jobs which the citizen will be able to take immediate care of without any action being taken to develop his or her ability to work. So the municipality is not going to mess around in the toolbox and send the citizen into practical or resource training, which is the requirement in ordinary cases of early retirement. So when we talk about dignity, I actually think that this very system is a measure of dignity. We should not just send people on early retirement because they have reached a certain age. Our seniors must be allowed to contribute with what they can. They must be allowed to be part of the working community. That is why it is pointless for us to set limits on when we can work and when we cannot. And when the SF explicitly states that the scheme does not work because too few benefit from it, then I simply do not agree. Let me just remind you that one year after the early retirement pension was set up, the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs were introduced. Therefore, the development of senior early retirement does not give the full picture of reality. The two things have to be seen in a context. After all, the aim of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is that as many people as possible should be able to contribute to the labour market with the resources that individuals have. Therefore, the flex job scheme was more targeted at people with a very limited ability to work. We can then see that more and more seniors are being searched and started in flex jobs. I think we should welcome that. That is precisely a sign that we are not giving up anyone just because they can only work a few hours a week. It is therefore not surprising that the approach to early retirement has been less than what was technically provided in 2011 before the adoption of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. Then I think that the SF forgets the point that I also made in the previous debate in this Chamber, namely that approx. 9 out of 10 citizens applying for a senior early retirement pension have actually been awarded it. There is therefore no indication that the low number of old-age pensions awarded should be due to restrictive practices in the municipalities or that the rules do not work, as you can read an attempt to draw a picture of. However, as I have said before, it is now a question of spreading knowledge of the system so that even more can benefit from it. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that more Danes become part of the working community, and we want fewer people to be dependent on public funds. We should not give up people by parking them on public support. Everyone must have the opportunity to be part of the working community, because everyone is needed, whether you are 30 or 60, whether you can work 37 or just a few hours a week. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160434	I just got a little confused, but that confusion, sir. Klaus Markussen probably removes by solving something for me. On the one hand, can I hear that the Left believes that the number that is seeking is apparently really okay, or is it? If so, why can we not launch campaigns to get more people to apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160457	What I said was that I welcome the fact that many of those who apply actually receive it, but I also mentioned that it may well be that we need to spread knowledge of the scheme, and I am also pleased that that point was included in the Minister's presentation earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160520	Yes, but the thing is, the two types of pensions are similar in some respects, while in others they are quite different. After all, we are talking about the people who are five years before retirement age, and that is why we have also said that here we have to treat them in a different way, that they have a different way of visiting them, and that we are looking at their potential in a completely different way. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether one of the things that could make the scheme more attractive and easy to understand and accessible and manageable for both the cashier and the job centre would be to say: because they are a very special target group that does not need to develop a working capacity because they are heading towards retirement age, a minimum number of hours could be set for this group.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160606	One of my points in my rapporteur's speech was precisely that the two arrangements should be seen in a context. So on this point, I would like to welcome the fact that we may look at things the same way. For me, it is important that each individual should always be based on a concrete and individual and objective assessment and not just on the basis of time and age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160632	Then we can thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511160645	Thank you, and thank you to the SF for putting forward this proposal which Enhedslisten supports, because if we could secure a majority for it, it would be a clear improvement in the possibility of obtaining a senior early retirement pension. More complicated than that, it's not really. Although Enhedslisten would like another proposal to be put forward, that is not what we are talking about here. So thank you to the SF for making the proposal. The Danish People's Party is unfortunately right. The senior early retirement scheme, which the Danish People's Party helped to introduce when it was intended to destroy the early retirement scheme, has been undermined by the later reform of early retirement, and I must say that I do not share the view that these are two different schemes, because if you look at the law in substance, you will see that they are dealt with in the same paragraphs. An application for a senior early retirement pension is clearly described as an application for an early retirement pension, subject to a number of years on the labour market and to a period of five years from the age of retirement. That's the only difference. This means that, if you meet the two requirements, you do not have to undergo work tests, but then the municipality will have to make an immediate assessment. However, what the municipality has to assess is precisely the same criteria as when we talk about early retirement, and that is why I have to say that the Minister is unfortunately right in saying that the senior early retirement scheme, as it was formulated at the time and as it still is, is not an extension of the right to early retirement. That is precisely why the Enhedslisten criticised it and said that this either leads to a faster award of an early retirement pension that would have been given anyway, or to a faster refusal. The latter, the refusals, has not been so many, and it may be due to two things. One is, of course, that there are many who do not know the scheme, and the other reason may be that the municipalities say to people who come and want to have a senior early retirement pension: you can forget that, because your ability to work is not reduced at all to an extent so that you can get anywhere near an early retirement pension. That is, of course, the fundamental problem in this issue: the excessively tight criteria needed to obtain an early retirement pension, and these are exactly the same criteria for assessing senior early retirement candidates. That is why I think the SF's proposal is a good one, because it goes in the right direction, because it sets in a number of hours, and I think it is necessary to do so if we are to have done away with the principle that the municipality must assess the citizen's ability to work, and it must obviously be pointless to develop the ability to work before an early retirement pension can be granted, because it has been shown that the municipalities have a limitless optimism on behalf of the citizens, and that is also what affects those who want to have a retirement pension in order to develop their ability to work. So good to get into that. Then we can discuss whether it should be 7 hours. In addition, there is another shortcoming, and that is that it is tied up at the age of retirement, because we have been discussing this for quite some time now, that is to say, that it is being raised all the time. This means that the improvement in the SF's proposal will be of benefit to fewer and fewer people as the retirement age increases. That is why the Enhedslisten last year put forward a proposal that it should not be fixed at the retirement age, but that an age limit should be set at 55 years, and that the number of hours proposed by the SF should be moved quite strongly, and that if the ability to work has been reduced to half, then it has to be said that people can at the very most contest a part-time job, they can qualify for a senior early retirement pension. Unfortunately, that proposal was voted down and, unfortunately, the SF also voted against it, perhaps because it was a policy of outbidding, what I know about it. But that is not the way we are in the Enhedslisten; there is a proposal here that is moving in the right direction, and we of course support that without further conditions and amendments and everything. The funding can be discussed, but as a starting point I believe that the proposers are right, because there should of course be budgeted with the amount provided for in the early retirement scheme when it was adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, so the next one is Mrs Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161153	As previous rapporteurs have said, the proposal here must ensure that worn-out citizens who have had a long-term link with the labour market and who have a maximum of five years of old age are entitled to a senior early retirement pension if they cannot work at least 71⁄2 hours a week. After all, it is a proposal which facilitates access to early retirement, since access to pensions will be based on a centralized set number of hours rather than on an individual, concrete assessment as it is today. The Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, and we do not, because we believe that it is moving in the wrong direction when we drop the specific individual assessment, instead of setting specific limits on when people can get on passive public support. I think it is very positive that we have made it harder for the municipality to park people on early retirement, and there is probably not so much new or surprising in that when Enhedslisten thinks it is moving in the right direction, the Liberal Alliance seems the opposite. At least that's the way it is often.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161303	That gave rise to a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161307	Could the rapporteur please repeat the final point? Does Mrs Laura Lindahl really think that it is reasonable to say that people who have worked their whole life and who are five years away from being able to retire and who are so worn out that they can only work for the equivalent of one day a week that they are parked on passive public support? Could we perhaps try to talk about our worn-out seniors with a little more dignity?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161340	In fact, I think it is to treat our seniors with respect when you have faith that they can work well, and when you do not think that the best thing for them is just to be left outside the community, outside everything that is going on in a labour market, even if they can only work 71⁄2 hours a week. We know that it creates an increase in the quality of life, and I do not think it is right that we should set a limit here and say: if you cannot work more than that, we cannot use you in the labour market at all. That is what the SF will say to them, and we simply do not share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161413	Well then, Mrs Laura Lindahl, since she now chose not to answer the question, maybe she can answer the next question. Does anyone want to be forced to do that? It is true for a great many people that having a job brings a lot of content to life. To that extent, Mrs Laura Lindahl is right, but here we are talking about seniors who have worked their whole life, who are five years old from retirement age and who can work no more than one day a week. Doesn't Mrs Laura Lindahl just use her own measure of value on them for what fits into Mrs Laura Lindahl's own life?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161448	I know that this is not a compulsory scheme, but you are still sending away a signal that if a person can only contribute 71⁄2 hours a week, he does not have to contribute at all. That's the signal I think you send with this, and I think that's the wrong signal. Because society also needs 7 hours of labor a week. And what seniors can get out of being part of the working community and going to work can be distributed over 2 days, and it can be 1 hour a day and have something to stand up to, although it may only be going to work 1 hour, can actually make one a happier person. And there I think it's wrong to send that signal from here: if you can't contribute any more, we can't use you at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161527	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161535	For the alternative, this isn't about parking people outside the community. It is about giving sick and worn-out citizens the opportunity to retire, while there is still a small amount of work to be done that can be exchanged for a little bit of good old age. So let's make the senior early retirement work. When the scheme was created in 2011, it was estimated that by 2020 up to 8,500 people would have benefited from it. Now it turns out that only 650 people have benefited from the scheme from 2014 to 2016. In our opinion, this means that the scheme needs a little help. Therefore, it is good that a person who can only work 71⁄2 hours a week is given the opportunity to get his senior early retirement pension. That's all I needed. If you imagine that there must be a little bit of strength left to get something out of your retirement, and if you already have only 71⁄2 hours of working capacity left a week, then you are on it, and you have to have a pension period of 30 years or an old age of 30 years, then it is very little that a person can provide care for grandchildren or go to things • and if it gets even lower, we get people sitting in old age who are completely earned and can't get anything out of their retirement. We simply have to leave people the opportunity after a long, hard working life, and I think dignity is the right word to use, to have a dignified old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161716	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511161730	Thank you. In the Radical Left, as I think the proposers are well aware, we have quite a lot of sympathy for this proposal, because it is in some ways similar to the radical one which is about a better senior retirement pension. As part of our proposal to bring forward the agreement on a higher retirement age, we have proposed that with it we follow an agreement to extend the early retirement pension scheme so that people who cannot work full-time and have less than 5 years left for retirement have direct access to senior early retirement pensions. So in some ways it is a scheme that goes further than the proposal that the SF has here. So, a process of resources or a flex job must be an option if you want it, but you have to have it right. So we have proposed this in the Radical Left. On the other hand, we think that things are connected, among other things. Because this motion for a resolution does not follow money: what is it that we invest in these people? I kind of think it makes pretty good sense. Together, we have established the old-age pension scheme that exists now in a broad circle of conciliation. I think there are some rapporteurs who have not been surprised, but for us it has perhaps been a little surprising that so few have been awarded a senior early retirement pension under the existing schemes. We are also willing to discuss other arrangements. That is also some of what we are doing here and perhaps also to call it something else, because I sometimes think it is such a bit heavy term. But that is not what is important right now; what is important is whether there is a need for someone who needs to retire a little earlier, because they are at risk of wearing out or at least cannot contribute full time, to be able to choose to retire a little earlier. That is what we are proposing with our proposal for a senior early retirement scheme. I now see this as an obvious discussion, while at the same time discussing bringing forward the retirement age, because it is there that it will be possible to get into play and also for good reasons find funding for it. That is why we support many of the intentions here, but will not vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511162040	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511162051	Thank you to the Minister and to the rapporteurs for having responded to the SF proposal. I would like to thank some rapporteurs more than others. In any case, however, it has been part of a debate on how to deal with seniors, and in that sense it has played an independent role. Because we obviously have a problem with the present senior retirement age. When it was introduced in 2011 in order, like, to pick up after the destruction of the early retirement, it was estimated that approx. 8,500 people would be included in 2020. And other things have happened since, among other things. that there have been more flex jobs, but the current ones are about 650 people so far from the goal that we should do something. Most people who seek are awarded the pension, but very few apply, and there may be several reasons for this. I have talked to a number of cashiers and job centres about this, and in some cases it is actually due to ignorance of the scheme. A campaign or new guidelines may be able to correct this, and there we have heard that the minister will take an initiative. So hopefully it can fix some of it. But most of the time I hear more about the fact that there is a resignation out there in the landscape to the whole structure. I have quite often come across the remark that senior early retirement pensions are only different from ordinary early retirement pensions by being able to get the refusal a little faster. And if that is the way you go to the scheme, yes, then you do not motivate the members of an unemployment fund or citizens who go to the job centre to apply for it. Today you may be refused a senior early retirement pension if there is just a chance to do a job, whether it is only a few hours or yes, in fact a few minutes. It is unworthy and, at the same time, poisons the system. On the other hand, we in the SF are completely open to what the hour should be. The reason we chose the 71⁄2 hour is that it equals 1 day. There may not be any reason for this group, which has 5 years to go on a public pension to hunt them down with a lower number of hours, but we are open to discussing it. That is the reason why we are proposing to put it to one day, but we are very open to it being that the ability to work can be assessed in a smaller number of hours so that you can still be entitled to a senior early retirement pension. But thanks for the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511162341	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511162356	The debate is open and we start with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511162424	Thank you. With B 122, the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party want to impose an authorisation system on the government for parking companies, as well as training requirements, etc. Under current legislation, there is little regulation of the private parking sector. It follows only from Article 122c of the Road Traffic Code that, in the case of parking on public private premises, the charge may be imposed only if the sign so permits. And then we decided on Tuesday, L 141B, which requires the industry to set up an independent Board of Appeal. In addition, there is no provision for a parking company to be approved before it can carry out its business. There are no requirements for training the parking attendants and there are no rules on uniform, visible ID cards or the like. My basic view is that public opinion should not interfere in the private market, for example. with regulatory measures, unless necessary. I therefore also believe in principle that it must be up to the private companies themselves to decide for themselves the requirements that their employees have to fulfil in order to carry out their work, including requirements for training, uniforming, ID cards, clean criminal record, etc. On the basis of the proposal, the authors of the proposal write among other things. in their comments on the proposal: • there is a need to introduce common rules and standards for the parking companies and their employees in the interests of consumer protection and legal certainty. As a motorist, it should be safe to expect that the control and issuing of parking charges will be carried out under orderly conditions and in a uniform manner, regardless of where you park in the country. I sympathise with the intention behind the proposal, but nevertheless the proposal raises a number of questions, for example.: Who should be in charge of authorizing the companies and their parking attendants, i.e. issue the approval? Should this be a public task, and if so, how should it be financed? The proposal seeks to regulate wage conditions, in particular to prevent piecework pay for parking attendants. I do not disagree with the fact that piecework remuneration for parking attendants may serve as an inappropriate motivation for parking attendants to issue control fees. However, the establishment of pay and working conditions is usually a matter between the employer and the employee. On the whole, I would appeal to the Folketing to be reluctant to apply explicit wage regulation in a private market and instead to maintain the fundamental principle of leaving it to the social partners. In addition, control fees, which have not been duly issued, will be liable to appeal in the future to the independent Board of Appeal which the Danish Parliament has just decided to set up. So I find it difficult to understand the crucial consideration behind the fact that we must demand from the state that parking attendants have a clean record. I am aware of not many areas of the labour market where this is required. It may appear unproportional to require a person to check whether drivers park in accordance with specified conditions. Overall, I doubt whether the elements that the authors of the motion for a resolution would like to see regulated are decisive in terms of the legal certainty of drivers or consumer protection. On the other hand, I believe that motorists are mainly interested in parking companies and their employees in the situation in which they have received a tax that they do not agree with. Here many drivers have expressed frustration about the lack of redress. It was precisely this frustration, which a large majority in the Danish Parliament approved on Tuesday, when Bill No. L 141 B was adopted. Now we have instructed the private parking industry to set up a Board of Appeal in which parking charges imposed on parking on public private areas can be tested. It is my clear expectation that the establishment of the Board of Appeal, in addition to giving citizens even better opportunities to complain about a tax, will also give the parking companies a strong incentive to ensure that their parking attendants issue control fees in a legitimate manner. All other things being equal, it must be assumed that the parking companies will take action against a staff member if they are in the situation that, over and over again, they lose cases at the next Board of Appeal because of improperly issued control fees. My recommendation is therefore that we now let the Board of Appeal get started, and then we continually assess whether it will not have a spill-over effect on the functioning of the industry and whether further regulation of the industry may be needed. I think we should agree to keep a common focus on this. And then it is clear that, if it turns out that further regulation is needed to guarantee motorists' rights in the private parking area, yes, the government is, of course, prepared to look at it. But the government cannot support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163003	Thank you, Minister. It gave rise to a simple question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163009	I would like to ask the Minister what impression it has that the industry actually thinks this is a very good idea, i.e. the industry understood as the large Q-Park company and FDM. FDM believes that this will strengthen the driver's legal position, and Q-Park, the same person who is also president of the trade association, says that this will help make it a more serious industry. So those who work with it both on the one hand and on the other say that it is necessary here to have a Board of Appeal, which is a very good idea, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163044	But that makes me even more concerned about the proposal, because what this is all about here is making it harder to get into an industry by making higher demands on getting into the industry. This means that those already in the industry are pleased that the draft law will thus help to keep competitors out. I think it should be easy to get into all sectors. The regulation that exists must be there because it is right and necessary. In this case, I do not think it is right and necessary, but I understand the pleasure of the established parking companies that it will be harder for new competitors to enter because they set higher barriers than are necessary for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163126	Then Mr. Karsten Hønge just to come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163131	Thank you. In fact, I thought that I had got used to the Minister's way of replying, and yet time and again I am surprised at the arrogance shown by simply adding all sorts of negative intentions to an industry, immediately adding to it all kinds of attitudes or motives, which it certainly does not have at all. What would the FDM's motivation be to keep people out of the business? That doesn't make any sense but that one, I think... Well, I guess the point is that this is where you attribute a very high level of authority to some customers, namely the right to impose financial penalties on people. That is why it could be said that getting some more serious companies in would be a little tidy-up. It doesn't stop companies from getting in that employees need a 3-day training course, just like you do in the security industry and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163222	I'll never be surprised by Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge's willingness to use nasty scorns about things that are not ugly. It is very often that it happens that if you have said something quite ordinary and reasonable, Mr. Karsten Hønge, that it is one and the other ugly. It's a solid part of Mr. Karsten Hønge's way of arguing or failing to argue is to use abusive words. It is a well-known case among all who study different industries and economies that those who already enter the markets have an interest in making it as difficult as possible for competitors to enter the same markets, and that is just the mechanism that I am describing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163304	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163308	Thank you. There is no such thing as a surprise in the Minister's position. We know that what the Minister stands for is anarchy and liberalism quite beyond what is reasonable, and rules and restrictions are not something to be hailed. We've heard that song before compared to other industries. I could understand from the Minister that this is a matter of behavior, that you could make something as unreasonable as a requirement that people did not have some criminal career in their back pockets when they went out and were supposed to be parking attendants, the Minister seems to be a barrier in terms of being able to establish themselves as a parking establishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163350	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen, that the minister who stands up here, i.e. me, has just tabled and adopted a bill imposing on the parking industry itself the creation and financing of an independent Board of Appeal so that drivers can complain to an independent Board of Appeal when they are dissatisfied with taxes. What I stand for cannot be described as anarchy at all. I'm in charge of fixed relationships. As far as a criminal record is concerned, I think it can be required where necessary, but I do not think we should require a private parking industry to require a clean record of their employees if they do not think it is necessary. If it is not necessary, it is actually a good thing that people can get out of prison and get a job in industries where it is not necessary to have a clean criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163447	The degree of this can then always be discussed. I agree, in part, that when you have endured your punishment, you have to go into society and have the opportunity to get a job too, but that is why you can make demands on people's credibility and so on. That's what we really want with this proposal. But then the minister also says that it will be a barrier in that it will be harder to establish itself in this industry. We have also heard this in the past when it comes to another piece of legislation. Why is it so big a problem to set up a set of rules? I think there are some 30-p-firms in advance. This isn't a barrier. All you have to do is apply for a license, and then you have to comply with some rules. Is it so difficult that the Minister thinks it is really a barrier?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163538	If the barriers you set up are necessary to get a proper industry and good customer service, I agree that you can have it, but if you consider them unnecessary to ensure proper customer service, they are just unnecessary barriers that make it harder to get into the industry. The need to train and apply for authorisation, etc. are barriers. Then the only question is whether these are necessary barriers that ensure a proper industry or whether they are unnecessary barriers that just ensure that there is not so much competition in this area. I believe that these are unnecessary barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163610	The next question is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163614	I would like to say something to the Minister's remarks that there is no reason in this area to make high demands, with an argument that it will prevent competition. After all, this is the exercise of authority with which a private company is provided, namely that they can levy a fine or a tax. It is, of course, a relatively intrusive sanction that a private company is being provided with here, and I cannot understand it if the Minister thinks, for example, that this is the case. a requirement for a 3-day course, a requirement for uniformation, a requirement for a clean criminal record should be such extremely high requirements that will prevent both people from applying into the industry, but will also prevent competition from going away, given that, after all, it is a matter of authority that they are actually helping to maintain society's demands on how to park in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163718	Well, it's kind of true, isn't it, sir? Henning Hyllested says that you exercise some kind of authority, but over a private area, and impose a tax if people have not complied with the rules you have set and the sign. I have proposed this independent Board of Appeal, which is imposed on the industry, so that they do not have to deal with the complaints that come over them themselves, but that it is left to some independent ones. And I'm absolutely convinced it's gonna work. I am absolutely convinced that private parking companies, which repeatedly lose in those boards, will either quit the market or will discipline their employees to issue parking fees only if there has actually been a parking violation. That will solve the problem, I am convinced, and what then comes in this motion for a resolution I think is at best superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163820	I will certainly not deny that the developments described by the Minister may be the result of the establishment of the Board of Appeal will also take place. I am sceptical, but I certainly cannot deny that it will be. It is a powerful means, it is an intrusive means when you equip a company with the right to levy a tax, and I am still a little stuck in the fact that I think there is, after all, a certain degree of confidence in the fact that we know that those who set up to exercise authority are actually trained for this. It is not just, if I may say so, people who have come straight from prison or where they can come from, but they have actually gone through a course, they have a clean criminal record, yes, of course, they cannot come from prison, but that is to say, that there is the security in relation to it, since it is such a rather harsh remedy that you have in your hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511163919	It can be said, of many industries, that it would be a security if they had a particular education and so on, but we leave it up to the industry to assess whether the people they have employed live up to it with the background they have, instead of imposing certain training requirements or certain clothes, or that they should have a clean record or the like. Shop workers could also benefit from having a clean criminal record and some particular clothes and perhaps also a certain education, but we still think that stores themselves must find out that they have decent employees. As long as we ensure that customers are properly treated, in this case through an independent Board of Appeal, then the facilities that ensure that companies appoint the right employees to comply with the rules in this area must also be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164016	Thank you, Minister. Then we go into the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164037	Thank you very much, President. I think we can quickly agree that there are quite a few things in everyday life that so quickly and so effectively can take the top of every good mood like getting back to your car and discover that there is a parking ticket in the window. And if you even feel that the parking ticket has been issued unfairly, well, it is really awkward. Therefore, it is always glorious when some, as in this case the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, make suggestions to qualify the effort that needs to be made in relation to those who print they have parking tickets. We have looked at this proposal from the Socialist side, and we think that there are elements that are, as such, exciting and positive. The fact that there is some relevant training and that there are some arrangements that provide a framework can be really, really fine. Conversely, we also find some knots more problematic in this proposal. The minister has raised the whole question of the criminal record. As the Minister has said, these are relatively few areas in which we demand that you have a clean criminal record in order to be able to do a job. Whether it is precisely to be a valet that there must be very zealous rules, we can be unsure. We in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of a chance to be re-socialised and to find a foothold in the labour market again, even if you have made a mistake in your life in the past. So it is something violent if it is the case that you cannot even be allowed to be a parking attendant. This is not the same as the fact that we think that these parking guards should be recruited directly from the country's prisons and shelters, and that it is a matter of headhunting people with backmarks to carry out these tasks. That rhetoric, I would very much like to get rid of the fact that because we're not just in favour of this proposal, it's because we have a different view of these things. We think it should be people who do a certain amount of honor and fairness in handling this job. But it must also be the case that if you have done something stupid, you have got a remark on your criminal record, then you have to have a chance to get a foothold again. Completely judging people out for time and eternity we find problematic. Then there is the whole question of remuneration. I understand why it is that the SF and the Danish People's Party think that there may be something annoying and unreasonable about directing people in the pay structure to zealously chase around to write out fines. But you could consider a little what the alternative really is if people have no incentive at all to print these fines. Then it might be that we could be at peace for parking tickets, but it could also be that it could quickly be very difficult to find a free parking space because people are not complying with this. So there's something there. There has to be an incentive structure, I think. In addition, it is also with the social partners that they are the ones who, like in some way, negotiate pay and working conditions. We can be a little uncertain about that too. Finally, it is a few days since we adopted a proposal to create a new system with an independent complaint body, namely this L 141 B, which fortunately gave us broad support from the Socialist side for there to be an evaluation of the proposal so that we can look at what the effect is. There we think it is right that we should also have an opportunity to see how developments have been in this area. Is there a need for us to tighten up the supervision of these parking companies, possibly with more training and more qualification, etc.? Is it necessary to have uniform requirements and other things? The times when I got a parking ticket, I have to say, I think people have been wearing uniforms. It hasn't made the experience any better, but I understand that you would like to have a certain authority about these things. Basically, we have it on the social democratic side that we think it is positive that the DF and the Socialist People's Party are focusing on this and that they want to upgrade their efforts. However, we think it makes sense to look at the time with the excellent legislative proposal we have adopted. So let's evaluate it and let's see if we can write something in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164528	This gave rise to a simple question from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164533	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for a generally positive reception of the proposal. I understood that the crux of the argument is that because we have now adopted something that is really good, making an appeal board, we should not do other things, which are also very good, as I understand it. Because there were, as I heard, only two things, sir. Rasmus Prehn didn't like it. That's the thing about the criminal record. Well, let's talk about it. This is not the ultimate proposal that has been put forward. I am sure that both the Danish People's Party and the SF will help to find a solution if it means a lot. In relation to remuneration, I would now like to say that this is a clear recommendation from the industry. In other words, the three large companies which today make up the car park association clearly warn against having a system of remuneration which unnecessarily calls for zeal and perhaps over-interpretation of the rules. That is simply their recommendation. For there are few companies, but there are companies that actually use that form of remuneration, and this often causes problems. But was it not an idea that, instead of postponing it indefinitely, on the part of the Social Democrats, because we need to evaluate something that is at the edge of this, you said that you wanted to help us implement parts of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164644	We are not suggesting that this should be postponed indefinitely. We are suggesting that, in the very near future, when we have to evaluate the system, with the independent Board of Appeal, I think it is a 3-year period we have to try this out, we will have an opportunity to look at whether there is a need for further. Then the SF rapporteur says that there are only two things we are opposed to in this proposal. Yes, but it is now also a great deal when there are four proposals in the resolution. Then we have half of the resolution with which we have problems. We have problems with the issue of remuneration, which we seem to be breaking into the tradition of Denmark, that it is the social partners who are negotiating these things. We can also be afraid that, if there is no incentive at all, it will be difficult to run a parking garage. And then there is the criminal record, in which we also think it is a little strange new break on the part of the Socialist People's Party that people who have done something stupid in the past will be excluded from doing a job such as this. parking attendant. There we are in favour of rehabilitation, and I had actually hoped a little that the Socialist People's Party was also involved in this rehabilitation element, which is that you get a chance to get a job, even if you have a nudge on the criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164802	I don't think so, sir. Rasmus Prehn needs to dig the ditches deeper. Well, in relation to the criminal record, I specifically said that let's talk about it if it matters. As far as the second point is concerned, it is not because I think it should be bought out. It was more if the Socialists really believe that it should be an opportunity to be piecemeal, in other words, that what I hear from the industry calls for unreasonable and excessive zeal. And this is not about interfering with the social partners. It is about the fact that, in other areas too, we are restricting what forms of pay are. It's not uncommon, we can do that. I mean, there are industries such as... safety or watchkeeping services where we say that there are other things here that overrule the right to introduce chords. So there's only one point that I hear where there's something. That's the thing about the criminal record, and I'm sure we can work that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164853	It is certainly not the intention of the Social Democrats to dig any ditches deeper. We'd like to have a close cooperation, including about this. We in the Socialist Group would like to help train the entire way in which we deal with parking policy. So the offer I am going to make to the proposers is that we in the committee can look at whether it can be promoted with the training of the parking attendants and try to discuss it here with the pay policy more closely. So in relation to whether it encourages unnecessary zeal and whether we should do something else. We can take that discussion very quickly and then discuss what we can do to either put forward a new proposal or country a vote on this resolution, where we very precisely distinguish what elements are possible to proceed with. Because we think there are some knots that we don't want to be involved in. However, there are also some elements on which we would like to work constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164954	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511164958	Thank you. See, this last one was a lot more positive. It smells a bit like a report, I think, where, of course, social democracy would have an influence. I'm a little puzzled because you could say that if you had to find a commuter for this, you might have to have a traffic police, which was commission paid, you'd think they were sometimes with the photo car style they're driving. But it would be completely on the moon to have such a system of remuneration, because then I would say hello and say that you would be stopped and some fines would be written out. After all, we have Section 6 of the Road Transport Act, and I know at least that the Social Democrats have been very careful about exactly the paragraph which states that you have to pay contractually. Here in the proposal, we are not interfering as such in whether it should be one or the other agreement, but we are just saying: this thing with commission pay may not be the best thing if we are to have a credible industry. However, I think I sense a positive approach to this, and we would certainly like to invite you to a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165112	It is true that we in the Socialist Group would like to take part in discussing the possibility of having a clear framework for training requirements for these parking attendants. We would also like to be involved in discussing whether the way in which wage policy has been put together today encourages too much zeal. We are a little sceptical that there can be no element of incentive at all. So it must also be the case that there is an incentive to go out and write some fines. But let us take the discussion of it in the context of the further examination of the committee. We think that the proposers should think very carefully about the criminal record. There I think it might be relevant also to get some in and clarify this: well, what will it actually have with consequences? So I see the parking attendant job as one that could give a chance for people who have been in some dirt to get back into the labour market. So there I think you should think carefully before you continue working on that part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165212	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, which I think I've seen in the room. There is now an opportunity for the rapporteur of the Left to speak from the platform, and he is rapidly approaching, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165251	Thank you for that, President. After all, the Danish People's Party and the SF have tabled this motion for a resolution, which focuses on getting arranged conditions around parking, and for this the two parties should be thanked. It's always good to have things debated. The two parties, in their own words, want to create security and legal certainty for Danish drivers in relation to parking, and the Left can support that motif, and I recognise the good intentions of the proposal. There are certainly many drivers who feel that they sometimes get unfair treatment in relation to the enforcement of the parking rules when it comes to paid parking. There is no doubt that rules must be observed, and what is central is that you pay what you have to pay, and no longer that it is a correct payment and that the rules are respected. That is why I am very pleased that we have in fact just dealt with and adopted L 141, which requires the parking companies to set up this independent Board of Appeal so that people can deal with their case if there are injustices. So I think this Board of Appeal should now be allowed to work, and then we'll have to look at it if it turns out it doesn't work. So far so good. There are, of course, some other elements in this proposal which also draw attention to some worrying points. For example, we're talking about what kind of remuneration these parking attendants are gonna get. I can see the problem there if you're on chords like that. It could encourage a bit of diligence with the fine block. But that does not change the fact that the Left is fundamentally opposed to the fact that we legislate on wages. It is a matter between employers and employees. We are not going to legislate on what remuneration should be paid. I recognise that there may of course be some motivation in this, but that does not change the fact that the rules have to be complied with. So if a police officer is going to issue a wrong fine, you will have the opportunity to complain about it in the future. But we do not want to interfere in wage conditions. Then there's the whole criminal record thing. I also understand the intention behind this, but we must be careful not to devalue this requirement for a clean criminal record, because there are a number of areas where it is most relevant. However, if one imagines that a citizen who has committed forced entry and may have been in prison for a few months and endured his sentence, then I do not think that he can be disqualified from being a parking attendant for many years to come. So the thing about a clean criminal record is probably a little overkill, because it's about there being some parking rules, and then fines have to be written out if those rules are broken. It's really that simple. So the thing about a clean criminal record is to tighten it up, too, I think. Then there are the intentions of the course etc. There must, of course, be an instruction. An employer is obliged to give it. When giving an assignment to your employees, they must have an instruction and they must be able to solve the task. Otherwise, it is quite unfair working conditions. But the thing about doing such a mandatory course for parking attendants could be a pretty expensive affair and perhaps also a bit bureaucratic. It costs money, and there's only one place to send the bill. It's gonna end up at the end of the day with these drivers. I have to say. This isn't free. So summa summarum I would say that there are good intentions in this and it is good that we have a debate and focus on it, but the Left cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165640	This gave rise to a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165644	I just want to hear something from the rapporteur of the Left. For the Board of Appeal we agree that is very good, but the very best thing was if we could also do a proper and healthy business, which more or less made this Board of Appeal unemployed. It did not matter because, in the end, citizens would feel well treated. So I want to hear from the Left whether it might not be an end in itself as well. One doesn't rule out the other, does it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165717	Nah, but what is intended in L 141, is precisely to get a healthier industry, because now drivers are actually being given a means of power to do more justice, and that helps to provide orderly conditions in the industry. So I understand the intentions, but I think we should now see whether L 141 is not actually going to work as intended. And if there are still problems in a couple of years, we'll be ready to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165748	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165753	I would just like to ask whether the Left is always opposed, and in any context, to imposing restrictions on pay restrictions from the public authorities. Could it be imagined that the Left would also accept the inclusion in other authority tasks of the possibility of paying for, for example, how many fines are charged or how many a security company can get kicked out of a company? Does one think that in all sorts of other contexts where one has an authority to exercise, there must be a free hand to make piecework pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165823	I believe that this should not be legislated for. This must be an agreement between the social partners. I've already mentioned it myself. If, for example, they do: In the field of police, the system of paying you a bonus, if you print a lot of speeding tickets, I would not think it was healthy, and I also understand that the police are not using that. But that is not something we need to legislate on. This is something that the social partners manage quite well. The fact that you can then have an opinion on it is something else, but I do not think that we should legislate on industrial relations and wages, because we then ultimately make the social partners superfluous, and I do not really think they are interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165906	Then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, therefore, that if other industries could introduce piecework conditions, it would probably be dealt with. That's what we got here. We have about 30 companies and, as we hear from the industry, a few are using it. But those who make up the trade association, the big and the reputable companies do not, but they see it as a risk to the industry that some do. It's not as sloppy as it is for the Left. So there are situations where there are other things that overwhelm what you can be allowed to do in the labour market, because you can create wage structures that encourage behaviour that we do not like. The question in this context is: how does the Left view the fact that consumers, the FDM and the P-company association actually think it is a good idea to go in and make some regulations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511165957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170001	It was a long question and it is well done to achieve it in 30 seconds. Well, I didn't say I was gonna take action against pay. This is a matter between the social partners. I can then have an opinion on it personally, but I think we should let the social partners look at it with pay. It's part of the employment relationship. What the FDM and others have said about this, I have read, and I understand that, but I still think that we should wait to see L 141 work in practice before we find the big sledgehammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170032	With that, we can thank the rapporteur and then we have reached Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170040	Thank you. From Enhedslisten's side, we think this is a good proposal. We believe that the exercise of authority, as we are talking about here, should be carried out under orderly and transparent conditions. I am surprised that the authors of the motion for a resolution, when we actually dealt with the L 141 legislative proposal on, among other things. The Board of Appeal did not actually take the opportunity to table this proposal as an amendment or a number of amendments to the draft law, and when I say so it is because it gives a different, sharp discussion and position on such a proposal. Perhaps it was also possible to foresee that exactly the creation of the Board of Appeal, which was adopted... the Enhedslisten voted in parentheses against "Of course it would be and is now also being used in the argument to say: Let's wait and see. This would have been avoided if it had been tabled as an amendment. Well, it's a process, it was just the kind of thought I made myself. But we agree on the part of the Enhedslisten with all the proposals on the content of an authorization system contained in the proposal, although I have to say that I have exactly the same considerations as Mr Vandemeulebroucke did on the issue of the criminal record. Rasmus Prehn made himself on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. After all, it is the principle that when you have endured your punishment, you are, so to speak, free from punishment. But, of course, we also make water requirements in other contexts, for example. not least in the taxi industry, on which we have just been through a major process and discussion. I don't have much legal expertise, but I'm wondering if there might be something called de minimis in this context. But I certainly think that is something that I could understand from the authors of the motion for a resolution that we can discuss in committee. So I would also say that we should do so. But otherwise, I think that the proposal for a fixed remuneration, which we have already mentioned here, is a very good one. I do not think we should have piecework pay and commission pay in this area. It is an absurd thought, and it leads, of course, to • and that is also why the industry backs up on the much, much zeal of the parking attendants around. It is clear that if their lives depend on how many fines are charged, then of course it has a huge influence, and that probably also leads to very little conduite and sometimes also to dubious charges. I think the industry has such a little wild-west over it in many ways, and I am quite sure that the proposal here will help. I would say that the comments on the motion for a resolution have also written about the possibility of suspending the payment deadline, and I think that is actually a very good proposal. Compared with the proposal to release the remuneration from the number of taxes issued, it will certainly have a preventive effect on the number of taxes issued, and I think that is a sensible thing to do. Because there's no doubt that there's a lot of complaints in this country, and there's a lot of parking charges that feel unfairly issued. Of course, this will also mean that there will be an increased incentive, you might almost say, to complain, and that may lead to more complaints. So there are such slightly contradictory effects in it, I think, and then you have to see what comes out of it. I have some doubts about the text of the comments on the proposal, but perhaps the rapporteurs can clarify that or we will have to clarify it in committee. It is here that the certification system contains a requirement of compulsory association with the Board of Appeal. The comments state: "It must be stated from the parking charge to which a complaint may be made and that the parking company is attached to the Board of Appeal'. I have some doubts as to whether it is a compulsory attachment or a voluntary attachment. I certainly think that there should be a compulsory attachment, because this is not the same as when we are out choosing a craftsman. Of course, you can choose a craftsman from there who is not associated with some kind of guarantee scheme. But you don't choose your own parking lot. You park wherever you park, and there is a parking lot, and I think it's nice to know there when you drive in, wherever you drive in, and what a p-company it is, that they are then linked to this licensing system, which I think is quite a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170532	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170540	Thank you. In general terms, the position of the Liberal Alliance is that as legislators, the market should be regulated as little as possible, but that, of course, there may also be situations where other considerations advocate some regulation. And you can then discuss whether that is the case in this situation. The comments on the motion for a resolution show that the aim is to increase legal certainty for drivers, and that is, in fact, very good. This is something that we in the Liberal Alliance can certainly support. We have also just voted in favour of the creation of an independent Board of Appeal, which I believe is a much better tool than forcing private companies to meet a whole host of different requirements. Not only is this a major interference in the private market, but the introduction of an authorisation system will also result in additional administrative tasks, which the motion for a resolution does not make clear who is going to carry out or finance. I also find it difficult to see how the measures proposed by the Danish People's Party and the SF in the motion for a resolution significantly enhance legal certainty for drivers. Whether a parking attendant has a clean record or whether the pay conditions are determined by a public authority has nothing to do with legal certainty for drivers. On the other hand, I believe that it is a strengthening of the legal certainty of drivers that we have just decided to set up an independent Board of Appeal. This allows drivers to complain about parking charges imposed by private parking companies. For a great many drivers, it has been extremely frustrating that it has been extremely difficult to complain about unfair parking tickets, The frustration is now being met, and I think this will be seen as a far greater strengthening of legal certainty than whether a parking attendant has a clean record. This will also mean that the parking companies will be much more motivated to ensure that parking tickets are issued correctly when they know that drivers have much better opportunities to complain. And that is the way regulation should work: it sets a framework for companies and then the market regulates itself. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution, which imposes unnecessary regulation on an industry and leads to increased administrative trouble for the authorities. Then I have promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170844	This gave rise to a simple question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170849	Sir. Carsten Bach says this is a major interference in private companies. How can this be linked to the fact that the conditions described in the motion for a resolution are the conditions already met by the firms which are dominant on the market today, that it is merely a question of putting the market on an equal footing, of creating more fair conditions and of getting the last of these with the fact that this violent intervention is therefore the practice on which they are already working?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170920	Yeah, or that you just, like, sir. Karsten Hønge puts it here, ensuring that the companies already in the market are given a competitive advantage. It has also been debated earlier in the Chamber, and I fully support the arguments put forward by the Minister in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511170941	How can it now be distorted to have a competitive advantage? I guess it can't. I guess it's about creating one's conditions, not least in support of the citizens. Sir. Carsten Bach says that Mr. Carsten Bach is not able to understand what remuneration has to do with legal certainty, but it has a lot to do with it, because there is no reason to include some incentive structures in the remuneration that make it unnecessary to impose fines on some who are just on the edge. It is clear, then, that if you can stand by and look at whether someone is on the line or not keeping the line in relation to triggering a fine, and you know it has a direct impact on your remuneration, yes, it could just challenge legal certainty. And that's probably why FDM thinks it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171021	I'm afraid sir... Karsten Hønge misunderstood what I said, namely that it is precisely the already existing companies in this industry that, with these licensing schemes and other barriers to new companies joining this industry, will have a competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171047	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171054	I'll be relatively brief. I am here instead of transport rapporteur Roger Matthisen. We are, as a starting point, very positive about this proposal and we think it is a good thing that it is linked to the former L 141 to create a secure framework around the entire parking situation with guards and parking companies. We are in favour of most things, but would like to ask a little more about this, especially with a clean record. Why is it important in this particular situation to include it? And we're gonna ask about this payroll thing. I think it is quite correct that it should not be the case that wages depend on the number of taxes imposed. Perhaps you could have other forms of remuneration, where that is not what this is all about, but perhaps the number of registered cars there are many ways to do it. These are some of the things we would like to ask a little about in committee work. But otherwise, we're positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171209	Thank you. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171218	Earlier today, the Radical Left chose to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, and that does not happen very often. Now we see a motion for a resolution from the SF and the DF, which will benefit the legal certainty of drivers. I think that is something of a break in Danish politics. Of course, we in the Radical Left have been reading through this proposal, and for those who are reading or listening to this debate, I can say that when a government sends a bill to the Folketing, it has been in consultation, but when some parties table a motion for a resolution, it has not been in consultation. This means that there are a lot of people around society who have not given a hearing on this motion for a resolution. We are simply to say that we are in complete doubt as to how big a problem this is. And since the proposal has not been in consultation, it is difficult for us to assess whether there is such a problem in the parking lots that it is necessary to set up a large state apparatus where you need to have a course and a scheme in the Ministry of Transport or the Transport Authority to approve companies. We think that, for reasons of principle, if we are to start regulating something, we must also be sure that we need to regulate and control something. We are not convinced of this by reading these two A4 pages on which the resolution is based. It is not the same as not being able to convince us of anything else by the authors of the proposals or by the consumers' organisation of the car owners, but it is not the case that we in the Radical Left have been bewildered, neither by our own constituents nor by the voters of others, that it should be such a big problem that we need to set up a large machine. That is why we are not immediately in favour of those things, but we can be convinced, because it is not such a great ideological struggle to be against it too. But we need proof or something that convinces us that it should be necessary to create such a system. Last but not least, we also always think you should know what things cost. I assume that it will cost some money to set up a system whereby the state has to authorize all companies that want parking, and the state must also do some kind of course for these parking attendants and check whether that course has been completed. It will also cost some money and, if there is not a major problem, we think that that money could have been spent differently. It may also be that these will have to be charged to drivers, and I do not think they are interested in that either. So, overall, we can be convinced if there are any good arguments, but immediately we vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171514	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171521	If there are two who stand with the drivers in Danish politics, then it is DF and SF. It is a great power to give private companies the right to impose financial penalties on citizens. Today there is no control over the companies or employees who exercise this control and the right to impose fines. It goes its happy and sometimes crooked walk out there in the parking lot. It is very good that we have a board, and the SF supported it. But why is it that you think you should fight the fire only when you can see that there is fire? It would be much better to create conditions that will provide security for drivers. There are far too many coincidences today, and that is why both FDM and Danske Private Parking Association support the creation of orderly conditions in the industry. These are actually quite modest demands we are proposing in relation to the authority of these companies and their employees. I think, moreover, that we can talk about the drafting of the resolution in committee, including whether it would be reasonable in this context to require a criminal record. Let us also talk about how we can, by the way, turn it together. That is not the crucial point; it is crucial for us that we take some steps towards securing the citizens' s slash motorists' legal position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171709	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171730	Thank you for that, President. Yes, an exciting debate, but, I think, largely positive. Some have wondered that it is precisely SF and DF that come together to make such a proposal here, but it does show that when we speak common sense, it is not a question of red and blue; then it is just a question of those who want to pay tribute to common sense coming together in cooperation around it. So you don't have to wonder so much about that. Now, I don't want to swear on this fine speaker's chair, but you often hear this about it being just a valet. There's a very low respect for this group of employees. So this is also about increasing respect for those parking attendants who basically just do what they're hired to do. And, of course, it is also about consumer safety. The fact that we have made this Board of Appeal seems to the Danish People's Party a very good idea, but as I said in one of my questions, it might also be good if you could stop any complaints coming to this board at all. Then some have attached themselves a little bit to the funding. We had imagined that this would be financed by the public utilities and by the trade association, which you would then automatically generate out of this. I also assume that they are the ones who have to set up the Board of Appeal. So you don't have to worry about the economy. It won't go from anything else. I think there are many positive approaches to this. I would like to take a personal look at this with a clean record, because if people have endured their punishment, they must of course also have one more chance in life and the opportunity to be re-socialised and get a job. So I would very much like to take a look at that, but I would also like to share it a little bit, because I would probably not be comfortable with people who have been sentenced to violence to run and beat people down the street, perhaps being parking guards. But let us look at how this can be done in the ongoing committee work. But thank you for a good debate and, after all, the many positive approaches to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511171959	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172018	The debate is open and we will start with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172057	Thank you for that, President. Where do you almost start in this very, very complicated case of district heating? It is certainly a fact that there have been too high returns, and this translates into extra bills for district heating consumers in good Danish. This is what this discussion and case, exemplified by Herning, has been about avoiding extra bills for district heating consumers. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is, if I may say so, part of a solution, because, if too high district heating bills are to be avoided, the root of the problem must of course be avoided, namely that you can get too high a return, and we support that we can get better control of that. But there has also been a discussion about whether we could do something about the bills that had already been incurred. And there shouldn't be any secret that we would rather see that you could stop the bills that are out there. That is really, very many billions, it is about at national level, because it is also very many years that they are summed up over. However, in a situation where the Minister says that we cannot do anything about this, we think it is reasonable to ask how we can then hedge it in, so that as many of the money as possible remains in the area, if you will say so, in the utilities and in district heating. And there we are at some of them, you might say, more technical things in this proposal, and there I would just like to announce that it has been a rather short consultation period for all of them out there, and we must regret that there is such a short consultation period, because that also means that we have relatively late received the consultation answers, and I think that some legitimate questions are actually raised. We must use the committee work to get the drill out, get proper answers to that. I myself have announced to the Minister that we would like clarification on how to ensure that the money does not just circulate around and spend on anything other than district heating. When you start from the point of view of saving people extra bills and then extra bills are charged, the money should not disappear out of the sector, and that must then be the way to go. We support the fact that this bill is patching up this gap, but we would also like to say frankly that we would have liked to have seen it go even further in order to stop, that these extra bills were even printed out, and we will of course pursue any possibility of it going forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172349	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172404	As far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, I can say that we have no particular sympathy for the fact that money is being collected from district heating consumers for the return on share capital. It's settled. The subject has, of course, been turned around in the public debate on several occasions, and in this respect we have said that we want the possibility of interest-rate participation to be stopped as far as possible, and that, if we cannot stop it, we will at least limit it as much as possible. There are, after all, several aspects of the subject of return on equity participation. It is true that district heating companies are largely owned by the municipalities. And if, as a municipality, one thinks quite simply and wants to have its share capital remunerated in the district heating company and then pulls it out to spend the money via the municipal fund for all kinds of other purposes, I believe that this is a disguised tax on the citizens who use the district heating, while the other proportion of the municipality's citizens who do not use district heating only gets a good one. They will fill more money in the municipal treasury, while it is the other half or what share it may be that will pay for it. We can't live with that. There are also district heating companies that are wholly or partly privately owned, and there are district heating companies that are co-owned, and just the fact that there are different kinds of owners makes it difficult to do much about this area. That is why negotiations have been going on between the government and Parliament's parties on this issue since March, and I would like to reveal as much as that we have not finished with the negotiations which are going to set out the final solution to how the problem should be dealt with. Therefore, the draft law here must also be seen as a form of temporary measure • the art of the possible in the short term, one can say where it is closed off that municipalities can withdraw money from district heating companies and keep the money. Instead, a 100% set-off is introduced, as proposed by the bill, so that municipalities that withdraw money from district heating companies will deliver every penny. It should, of course, remove the incentive for the municipalities to do the exercise here and to interest deposit capital for the purpose of making money on it. So far so good. I have also heard from the media that the government is planning other initiatives which are not to be implemented through legislation, but through announcements, and which will also help to lure it in with this money until there is, it can be said, a completed solution which we in the Danish People's Party would very much like to help find. I would therefore like to lift the veil and say that in the Danish People's Party we see the district heating sector as a sector that is a natural monopoly, and we basically have no desire to make it the subject of capitalism. Now I do not have to start sounding socialist or communist, but just when it is a monopoly that the district heating sector is, yes, we believe that it is not something that should give profits to the owners. So it is with the intentions that we are entering into the continuing negotiations, but I can say that we support the draft law here as a temporary measure until the right solution is found.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172755	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172802	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 213 on the amendment of the Law on Heat Supply, the Law on Electricity, the Act on Natural Gas Supply and the Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities vote in favour of the proposal. In the Left, we are working hard to ensure security of supply and fair prices for consumers, and that is why we now find it necessary to make changes to the legislation in force, so that we avoid that Danish consumers are suddenly faced with a disproportionate huge bill. The proposed changes consist of a 100% set-off in the individual municipality's state grant if funds are transferred from a municipality's heat supply company to the municipality. In this way, the rules are tightened so as to reduce the incentive for municipalities to withdraw funds from the heat supply companies. At the same time, the incentive for municipalities to use possible returns in the area of the supply sector is increased, which is only positive. It is neither fair that municipalities should be able to suddenly collect the huge amounts from consumers via heat prices, nor that consumers' money paid through the heating bill goes to activities outside the supply company. We are now preventing this from happening with Bill No. L 213, why I repeat that the Left, of course, supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172948	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. There is a brief comment from Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511172952	The Left rapporteur emphasizes that fair prices are coming forward and that the municipalities are not being given this opportunity to withdraw money. I would then like to hear the rapporteur's reflection that this bill only closes half of the gap, that the bill does not ensure that privately owned district heating companies can take an amount out of the companies. So it's actually only half a solution that's come here. I have noted that the Minister of the Left in the field of energy has been out saying that the hole would be closed, and here we have a bill which closes half the hole. I find that rather disappointing if it is the case that we should take note of that comment on fair prices and say: well, that is important. Then we have something here in which we only have a legislative proposal that provides half the solution. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173047	But the Danish people have only been blessed today by a Parliament which now together wants to put an end to this. This means that it may well have been done earlier, but from there and then to make legislation with retroactive effect there is a long way to go, and that is, and will not be, the policy of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173108	So with what you do here, you do what you say, you do legislation with retroactive effect for municipalities, municipal-owned companies, but you do not want to make legislation with retroactive effect for privately owned companies. I think it sounds like a rather crooked line that the Left is on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173129	That is not correctly understood by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. This is true for the future, this, for companies that are municipally owned. So this is a misunderstanding, I can reassure Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173145	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen for today's work. While the next rapporteur is on his way up here, I should like to welcome the Social Democrats and say that the Radicals support the bill. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173159	As to whether the draft law is retroactive, I think that some municipalities could have taken that view, and if private companies had received the same treatment, I think that this matter had become more relevant. We are facing huge challenges in the common supply. There is a need for large investments with the cheapest possible funding and there is no need for capital to be withdrawn from the supply sector at all. Therefore, Enhedslisten supports that we are closed to withdraw money from the district heating companies. When there are applications from 57 companies to draw 3.4 billion. kr. out of the district heating sector, this is a big and serious matter. But the law only solves the problem in half of the cases applied for. Enhedslisten's concerns are about the extent to which the bill goes too far in efforts to sneak parts of the government's supply strategy through the Folketing. And it is a shortcoming that the bill does not prevent private companies from withdrawing money from the district heating companies. Our district heating needs to be converted to sustainable heat, where geothermal, solar and large heat pumps powered by wind power ensure climate-friendly heat. Our drinking water must be protected from pesticides and monster rains, which requires investment in afforestation and climate protection of our water supply. Waste water plants must be rebuilt to produce energy from our toilet waste water; phosphorus must be extracted as clean manure and the microplastic problem must be solved. In short, there are a lot of challenges to be solved. We also have our waste, which must be sorted and recycled, and the part that is incinerated must remain part of local district heating. Investment needs are great, and it should not be slowed down by expensive loans or by new laws, as the legislative proposal we are discussing here today becomes. Therefore, it is important to have an eye on the impact of this bill on other sectors. Some companies are multi-supply companies where cash flows can be drawn out and used for investment in other utilities, and I think this bill makes it possible. There we then share at least until further notice the position of KL in the hearing answer that has been given. After all, we have seen waste incineration, which in some places produces both electricity and heat, which is why this is going to be a bit complex. The consultation note on page 2 says that work is being done on another legislative proposal which is on the way, and I would really like to know from the Minister how much legislation will come from the law we are discussing here today. It would be nice to know if we should be aware of whether this law goes too far and to what extent it solves half of the gap that the Minister has said should be closed. I think that is relevant in the committee procedure. I can see from the timetable that there is pressure and that this has to be rushed through. We have some opportunities to ask questions, and two days later we will then have answers to those questions, and then we will have to submit a report in this way. I think that is a lot of pressure and I think that when you look at the extent of the questions, you should consider how we can ensure that this law is dealt with fairly on an informed basis and that the consultation answers given by organisations etc. has submitted during the one week that is the consultation period that has been taken seriously and that we will find out to what extent the legislative proposal needs to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173550	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. So we're hurrying on to sir. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173557	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to be brief. I would also like to express some surprise on this occasion and then raise a single warning flag. But first of all, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. In addition, I shall not go into it further. I think that the draft law has been reproduced very well by previous rapporteurs from the platform. However, I think it is extremely unfortunate that, on the one hand and on the other, in the energy sector, we have to take this type of urgent legislative action in order to patch gaps in the legislation, first and foremost on the basis of the energy agreement of 2012, but also as in this case, legislation that has existed for decades. I myself have been a member of the Danish Parliament for almost two years and energy rapporteur for almost one year, and I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that this stone has been pushed in front of it both politically and in the official work, at least since the beginning of 2013 under a radical minister, without anything having been done about it. Now, fortunately, there seems to be a broad consensus on finally closing the gap. But then I would like to raise a small warning flag and warn against it being closed with waterproof bulkheads so that it will prevent the complete unlocking of the efficiency potential that is generally available in the supply sector in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173743	You're welcome. There is no brief comment to Mr. Carsten Bach. So we move on to Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173753	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. This is a gap that has existed for a number of years, and that is why I would like to start by thanking the Minister and the government for taking the initiative to close it now. That is why we in the alternative are in favour of this being done. But we are also concerned that it will actually be closed in the right way. As it stands now, it is a little difficult to see whether it is being done in the best way. So we are immediately in favour, but are very anxious about what committee work and questions and answers can provide us with further insight into the area in order to resolve it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173841	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments, and then we have come to Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173852	As SF's usual rapporteur in this area, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, is unable to be present in the Chamber today, it has fallen in my lot to say that the municipalities must keep the cuts from consumer money and that SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173909	Briefly and precisely, thank you for that. Then we have come to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, who now has the opportunity to respond to the points that may have been raised by the rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511173925	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for their receipt of the bill. I would also like to thank you for your support in the Folketing. I am actually pleased to be able to present this bill. The proposal is part of a series of measures taken by the Government to address the existing remuneration rules in the district heating sector. The current rules on the remuneration of share capital, as has also been illustrated by recent media coverage, are designed in an inappropriate way which is not of benefit to district heating consumers. That is why the government has taken the initiative to change these rules here and now. In addition to the proposal we are debating today, it also involves the introduction of two options in relation to remuneration. These three initiatives are the government's overall here and now solution in relation to the challenges of return on deposits capital in the district heating sector. Before Easter, we started discussions on possible solutions in relation to the return on participation capital in the sector. The draft law has been drawn up on the basis of these discussions. I have listened to the fact that there is broad support for changing the set-off rules for municipalities that distribute funds from return on deposits in the district heating sector. I hope, therefore, that you will welcome this bill. The draft law must support the fact that the funds from the remuneration of the share capital remain in the supply sector rather than being taken out by the municipal owned companies and into the municipalities. The draft law means that the rate of set-off is changed to 100%. set-off in the block grant of each municipality. This set-off shall be made if the municipalities make transfers from the municipalities' heat supply companies to the municipalities, provided that the distribution or remuneration derives from the remuneration of the share capital. The draft law is intended to limit the incentive for municipalities to extract remuneration funds from municipal-owned heat supply companies. In addition, a rule is introduced that if the funds derived from the return on equity capital are used for activities within the supply area, the amount of the remuneration will be exempt from offsetting. This rule shall contribute to increasing the incentive for municipalities to use the proceeds of remuneration on the supply sector activities or to refrain from charging interest on consumers. The possibilities for defining what the remuneration money can be used for and how the rules can be adapted are still being examined, so that we limit the possibility of drawing interest on the capital of deposits to a lower set-off rate. Obviously, this must be both practical, legal and economical and appropriate. Against this background, I cannot rule out the fact that, as the process progresses, we need to table an amendment dealing with this. The draft law will take effect on 3 May, which means that the new set-off rules will have practical effect even when the bill is adopted. In this context, I would like to thank the committee for showing the goodwill and support to deal with the bill in a short time. In addition to this bill, the government will also introduce two concrete models to help address the concrete challenges of return in the district heating sector in the short term. The first approach involves limiting the business base of the companies. This is done by seeking, in the future, only a return on capital used in operations or to finance investments. With the second model, we will introduce a ceiling on the amount of return that can be included in the heat prices. This initiative is intended to mitigate some of the price effect on heat consumers. This extends the rate of return over a longer period to take the top of the price increases. These measures will enter into force by means of a notice and will take effect as soon as possible. The proposed bill and the other two initiatives address some of the acute challenges, but do not provide the best possible conditions for a more efficient district heating sector for the benefit of consumers in the long term. That is why the government wants to get a long-term solution in place. The government has presented a concrete model of what long-term regulation should look like, so that in the long run we ensure the efficiency of the sector in favour of consumers. It is now up to the other parties to help secure future regulation of the district heating sector. I hope that is the case, and that is why I am currently discussing a long-term model with a number of parliamentary energy rapporteurs. I am very pleased with the draft law, because it is precisely one of several initiatives designed to safeguard consumers in the future against unfair returns on deposit capital. Finally, I would like to thank again for the interest that Things has expressed in the draft law and I look forward to the continued constructive discussion on the individual elements of the draft law in committee. With these comments, I would ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174441	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174447	There are announcements and laws, and now, apparently, there are models too, and I do not really know what models are in mind here. Could the Minister not elaborate on this and say whether it is two future legislative proposals or whether it is just some announcements that need to be consulted where the sector has the opportunity to make input and objections to it? I think it seems a little unclear. I can see that that is what is partly described on page 2 of the consultation note, but I really think it would be appropriate if, before the committee reading, we could get some more detailed material on these models, which should be included in this legislation. I think that would be appropriate. Then there is the fact that the Minister only comes here with half a solution, so it is only the municipal companies that this law will have an impact on. Will the Minister not comment on why it has not succeeded in introducing a bill which also includes private district heating companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174555	Thank you for the questions. It is, of course, the case that in the committee work that comes in connection with this bill, we will of course respond to all the questions that are coming and, in this context, are also willing to discuss the legislative proposal. Of the two announcements we issue, one is that the companies should only be able to obtain interest-bearing capital used in the company in the future, and that is to say for activities relating to district heating. We think this is a sensible way of dealing with it. And the second is that companies which have been given the opportunity to receive interest-rate capital may be required to distribute the bill to consumers over a longer period of time, so that consumers do not get a huge bill for a single or two or three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174643	I think it is a good thing that the Minister is defending self-confidence in this way, and that is so little in conflict with the supply strategy that the Left Government came up with, which suggested that money could be pulled out of the sector. Now we have a very large, concrete case here, which shows that, politically speaking, there is a very large majority that does not want to take money out of the sector. I actually find that gratifying. Then the Minister did not answer why it has not succeeded in closing the second half of the gap, which concerns the private companies, which can, of course, continue to take out money if it is the case that the draft law is adopted as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174724	We do not want that because it is legislation with retroactive effect and because we have obtained a legal assessment that shows that it will not be possible. And that is why it is crucial for us that the possibility that exists lies in relation to the municipal-owned companies where there is an opportunity to offset the block subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174744	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174746	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the bill. I think we owe it to the honesty to say that what we really wanted was to avoid these bills. That is why I also think we owe it to us to communicate honestly that this bill does not avoid any bills, but to ensure that the money does not disappear for the part that concerns the municipalities. But I agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in that there are some places where you do not contain the bills, or for that matter where they can end up. So, in addition to asking the Minister to say a few words about this with the honesty of communication, I would like the Minister to say a few words about the fact that the money is channelled around different sectors, because what I hear the Minister say outside is that it is very important that the district heating customers' money goes to district heating and that this ensures that they do not disappear to anything else. Can the Minister say a few words about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174849	Thank you for the question. We are currently discussing this bill. Amendments will probably also be tabled in the light of the discussion that is taking place. We're also looking at what opportunities there are to ensure that this money is also used for purposes that somehow have something to do with district heating. We are willing to look at what opportunities there are for that. Conversely, it is also important for us to ensure that there is efficiency and the possibility of forming utilities, etc. There are many considerations to take, but the crucial thing for us, and what is the starting point for us both in this draft law and in the discussion of what future regulation should be like, is to ensure as low heating prices as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511174933	Thank you. I agree entirely with the latter, by its very nature. I would therefore ask the Minister at least to state what the intention is with what we are discussing today, in other words with regard to how to close a gap which has arisen from too high a rate of return, and with regard to the fact that we cannot intervene against the possibility of withdrawing money from the current system. So I would just like to ask the Minister to indicate that we will then make a solution forward-looking, which means that the rate of return will not be too high and that, moreover, we will not be able to withdraw money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511175008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511175009	This is an intention which I share very, very much along the way with the questioner, and that is also what I hope for when we have completed our discussions, both with regard to the specific legislative proposal and with regard to what kind of solution it is that is being put together in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511175027	Thank you, Minister. No one else has any brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170511175046	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 16 May 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
