ParlaMint-DK_20171010130019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Bent Bøgsted (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the indexation of daily allowances). Pelle Dragsted (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 10 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on enhanced supervision of financial institutions and mortgage credit institutions with regard to their reasons for raising the contribution rates). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of user charges for interpreting services), motion for a resolution No. B 12 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution that, in order to have the right to vote and to be eligible for election in municipal and regional elections, foreigners must have passed the test in Danish 3) and motion for a resolution no. B 13 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accommodation of minors for asylum seekers). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and Pelle Dragsted (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 14 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a State grant pool to promote the construction of general youth housing in 2018 and 2019. Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 15 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of a 10-year forest plan to get Denmark back on track in terms of doubling the forest area). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Question No. F 3 (What can the Minister say about the government's plans for mandatory targets for competition exposure to municipalities and regions, cf. the government basis? ) Stine Brix (EL) and Finn Sørensen (EL): Enquiry no. F 4 (Will the Minister initiate a long-term plan on how mental health and psychiatry can be significantly prioritised and how to ensure a lasting and stable financial framework for psychiatry, including funding through the Finance Act rather than through the Rate Pool? ) Liselott Blixt (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 5 (What initiatives does the government intend to take to ensure that the hearing impaired is properly treated in the health care sector, given the long waiting times for hearing aid treatment, and what is the working group set up in conjunction with Bill No. L 59 from the parliamentary year 2012-13, which was to examine the double role of the ear doctors, arrived at? ) Titles on the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130216	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130306	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130320	Thank you. Everyone is aware of the problem of one digging work replacing the other in the street picture because it seems that no one knows who is digging where and when. We also have a challenge with the fact that free pipe and wiring capacity in the soil is not being used optimally. Finally, there is a great need to digitise pipes and wires in the soil so that it becomes easier for others. municipalities, contractors and cable owners quickly create an overview of closed pipes and wiring systems. With the bill, wires and pipes of various kinds in the soil will be registered, digitised and released. It must make planning and workflows more efficient; it must reduce digging damage where cables are unintentionally dug; it must make it easier to coordinate digging work so that the same place is not dug several times at a few months apart; and it must finally help to make it easier to use available capacity in lead pipe so as to reduce the laying down of parallel pipes. The Social Democratic Party welcomes the content and objectives of the bill, but we are aware that this is even a very extensive administrative work for the cable owners. In particular, the telecommunications industry has indicated that the task will be to push them beyond reasonableness and that they need more time than the one proposed by the Minister. The Social Democratic Party will therefore have some questions directed against the time limit for the lead owners to get the job done. We want to ensure that cable owners have a reasonable time to have this very extensive work done. There are companies where this task is even very extensive. We should also have in mind that it is one party that has the cost of registering and digitising the wires, but that it is others, namely the contractors, who benefit from the work without, however, contributing financially themselves. For this reason alone, it is necessary for us in Parliament to set a deadline which companies can meet without having to cut back on or be delayed with expansion investments. But that is all we take during the committee procedure. Social democracy is, as a starting point, positive, but we will not make a final commitment until we have received an answer to our questions and have been in dialogue with the Minister. Finally, I would like to say that the SF agrees with this presentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130602	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130611	Thank you. After all, the bill here translates what is called initiative 6.3 into the joint public digitalisation strategy that the government has created together with Danske Regions and the National Association of Municipalities. The previous rapporteur on the floor already mentioned that there may be many good reasons why such an initiative should be carried out. It must be in everyone's interest that no superfluous diggings are made, that existing pipes, which have spare capacity, are used before extra pipes are put in, and that you also become better at preventing existing pipes from being dug over to the detriment of all those who benefit from them on a daily basis. Similarly, we must of course avoid digging more than is necessary, because it is a great nuisance for residents, for companies and also for traffic when roads and sidewalks are dug up. There can be no two opinions on this, and from the Danish People's Party we are pleased that this strategy is being tackled. We hope that this will lead to more efficient use of the infrastructure that already exists and that for all stakeholders it will both go faster and become easier to prepare and carry out the digging work. So we take a positive view of the bill. I would just like to take the liberty of saying that, in connection with the committee procedure which is before us, I will also come up with a question which is probably best suited to a written answer. This means that if a pipe owner has spare capacity that he can make available to another party who needs a wire, is there a regulation on the price to be charged for making his capacity available? Because, of course, there must be a reasonable remuneration for having some capacity that is made available to others, but on the other hand it should not result in using one's position to take an unfairly high price. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party are very much in favour of this initiative, and we certainly expect to support the bill when it comes to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130838	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010130846	As the two previous rapporteurs have explained, this is part of the common public digitalisation strategy that we are putting into practice. There is no doubt that we in Denmark are one of the most digitised societies in the world. It has many advantages. This helps to make our society effective, which is why it is of course important that we look for areas where we can make use of digitalisation in an even better way than we do. This is a very good example when it comes to recording wires and what has now been dug down by various things. So, for once, one can safely say that we are talking about a very earthy bill here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Basically, we need to modernise and digitise the information on the grid so as to make it easier for all of us, for companies, for authorities and other actors, to get the correct information in a quick and easy way, so that cables are not dug, that there is no in vain digging, that there is increased cooperation on the burial of various cables and wires, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, namely that we are not digging and creating the genes that it is also associated with for the citizens. In fact, this is also one of the things we are always talking about when it comes to an area with which I am very concerned: the area of telecommunications policy, that is to say, that we are basically concerned about removing barriers and making it cheaper to roll out. That is also the basic purpose here. I have also noted the response from the telecommunications industry, which says that, yes, there are adjustments to be made by cable owners and that on paper alone it is the contractors who have to bear the gain that the net accounts are positive. A great deal has been done to clarify that this is an overall relaxation of the proposal. I also think that we should remember the consequence that if the cost of digging is lower, it is of course also in the price paid by the cable owners. So it may well be that, in isolation, it is one industry that is given a relaxation and another because some information needs to be provided in a new way, which has some conversion costs, where it sets itself in the price paid by the cable owners for digging down, and therefore the result is overall positive. This may actually be a good example of our digitisation. There are some conversion costs, but overall it will be to the benefit of all of us, for society, that we are doing things a little more efficiently and that we are making use of the digitalisation to make things happen a little faster, a little more enlightened and to avoid, in concrete terms, that there are some who are going to dig up cables and wires with the major consequences it has. So basically, we think it is a quite sensible legislative proposal that follows up on a digitisation strategy that is important for us as a country to maintain a position as one of the most digitised nations with the benefits it brings with it. Of course, we must always look for where we can reap even more gains, and I believe that the government, in cooperation with Danske Regions and KL, has found a good example of this here. I also think that all the actors involved are happy about this, even when, because I know that this is something we will be discussing during the committee work, we will see that this has benefits for everyone in Danish society, so of course we support it on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131223	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131236	Overall, Enhedslisten is positive about having a better record of the pipes that have been dug down, and it could for example. As a result, a better overview of what are some empty pipes lying around the country could contribute to the possible roll-out of fibre networks to more consumers. If I look at the economy of this, I find it hard to see what the Left pointed out just now, namely that overall it would be an advantage. I am well aware that as comments in the consultation note it says that the Danish Business Authority has carried out a study which shows that this proposal is financially positive. But when you look at the summary table prepared for the bill and look only at the elements included in the table, you see that it is therefore sketched out that there are some one-off costs, some expenses, associated with introducing this system, and they are approx. 20 million kr. for the public sector and approx. 122 million kr. for the cable owners. So it is the one-off costs that are being introduced here on a total of approx. 144 million kr. If I look at the consequences of introducing the new system, the table shows that they can be listed up to an annual cost of 88 million. kr., and then there are some saved costs and some revenue of 68 million. kr. In other words, a new system is being created which costs 144 million. kr. to introduce a social operation with a minus of 20 million. kr. I mean, I find it hard to see that, overall, it is something that is financially positive for society. And frankly, I think it would be a good idea to have it examined more carefully in committee to see if there is anything inappropriate in this proposal. I do not think that, overall, the figures I have seen here can be made up as something positive when it comes to the introduction. It may well have some effect in the longer term, which is economically positive, but I have a little difficulty in seeing that from the legislative proposal that is in place. So you're chasing something about getting less digging damage, which is estimated at an annual cost of 2 million. kr., and I think that is actually a very low figure, but in the hearings some people point out that it is actually set too high. I think that the economy around this bill is very difficult to understand if you take the summary table of the bill seriously. So I think there is good reason in a committee to clarify what kind of economy is in it, and I can see that there may be dilemmas, that there are some who have all the costs of introducing this better wiring registration, and that there may then be others who have the benefits in that they might be better able to plan their digging work, or there may be actors who will use some empty tubes to roll out fiber networks to some more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131543	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131551	The bill here, L 37, ensures that information about buried infrastructure will be collected automatically and in digital form, thus making it easier for contractors and cable owners to do digging work and to maintain buried wires because they can easily access the information that is now needed. This will reduce administrative costs and lead to less risk of damage to digging work. I would actually add here that from my previous work I have some experience with it and here from the platform in the Folketing can boast that I have both drilled water pipes and power lines and various other wires over, so it is actually a relevant issue to address. We also often talk about how it should be easier to operate in Denmark, and by collecting this information about buried infrastructure we minimise the administrative trouble that is now for a large number of companies working with these areas. The bill is a welcome not only for diggers but also for the many ordinary people who experience genes in weighing and other infrastructure being dug up because there is an opportunity to better coordinate work in the future, thus minimising situations where the same stretch of road, for example. must be dug up repeatedly. There will also be quite a fine social gain in the proposal here. In fact, Rambøll estimated it, I think, to be over 0.5 billion. kr. over the next 10 years, and we in the Liberal Alliance think this is also worth taking along, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131736	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131745	Like the other rapporteurs, I would like to pay tribute to this bill. This is, in fact, one of the kind of legislative proposals that has surprised me a little, because it shows that we have not been any longer so far with this openness in such a common system. So, of course, it has to be done as soon as possible. I would like to congratulate you on choosing a vectorized format because it allows you to work professionally with things. I hope that, in some way, an open standard will be chosen in implementation so that you will not be bound by licenses for expensive programs, but can choose to work with an open standard in the software you find most useful for the business you are now running. I would also like to ask the Minister how open it is to think that the register will actually be. I've been wondering if there's even a need to have it closed. One might have a concern as to whether there might be sensitivity to terror and such things, but there I think the thing is that everyone knows about where the wires lie. This register is about exactly where the wires are. So I'm guessing that it won't have a meaning, but that it can be a huge advantage to make the register completely open, so that everyone through a web page can go in and see where these things lie. It also means that citizens would be able to go out with the spade and work more safely and thus save some things that could otherwise be destroyed when you dig yourself. So that's kind of what I'm saying. And otherwise we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131933	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010131942	Radical Left believes it is an excellent idea that it should be easier to obtain wiring information for anyone who has to do digging work so that they can better coordinate their digging work and take advantage of available space in existing lead pipes and avoid digging damage. Both standardisation and digitalisation of those tasks will make the processes easier. In the consultation answers it is pointed out that the Personal Data Act must be complied with so that sensitive data are not provided, and there must be a high level of certainty as to to to whom the data should be disclosed. On the radical side, we would like to stress the importance of the bill having a look at privacy and general security, and with those comments we are positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132033	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132042	Thank you. This is, of course, a record that we have been making of wires since 2005, and the use of this register has been increasing over the years. Therefore, it makes good sense now that with the government's digitisation strategy, we get these things run in, so we get a complete overview of where our wiring grid is. We need to use available capacity, that makes sense. I would like to say about the damage to wiring networks that many, many millions have been spent on the restoration of wiring networks that have been destroyed due to digging, and there is a huge value in the fact that we can get a precise record of our wiring networks, and I see it as one of the biggest gains for our society that we go in and get hold of it. Then it was mentioned earlier that in committee work, if we are to exploit the grid and others are to go in and exploit available capacity, we might just have to narrow down what the price of this will be and how it will be implemented. Another part of this is, of course, transparency about the register. I think that we also need to turn around, whether there are any issues there that we need to address. But the Conservative People's Party is prepared to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132237	Thank you. Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132252	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I would also like to thank you for the broad support for the proposal that I am experiencing today. With this proposal, the government is continuing its efforts to digitise important and important areas for the benefit of our society. With the bill, we ensure that information on buried infrastructure will be provided automatically and in a uniform digital format. Denmark is generally well advanced compared to having an overview of our infrastructure. We also have a good basis when it comes to burying an infrastructure. We have had a line owner register since 2005 and the use of registered records has been increasing over the years. With the proposal, we are creating the basis for further development and modernisation of the Lead Owner Register. The draft law will provide all users of wire information with clear information in future. It will therefore be easier for them to plan and carry out their work. The proposal will benefit companies carrying out digging tasks, for example. contractors. They will experience that it becomes easier and cheaper to perform digging work. The proposal will also make it easier and cheaper for companies that own wires to maintain buried infrastructure. The proposal makes it easier to coordinate excavation work and lead pipes in pipes with spare capacity. This will mean a reduction in digging work. This will benefit both digging actors and cable owners, and it will reduce the nuisances that citizens and local companies experience when digging. With the proposal, we are developing the framework for the Lead Owner Register so that they are long-lasting. In the work of implementing the framework of the law, industry organisations and digging actors and cable owners will be involved. The work will also include experiences from countries which, like Denmark, are leading in the field. Here we will look in particular at the Netherlands and Flanders, which have had good experiences with similar digital solutions. The public consultation on the draft law has generally been positive. That is how I sense that the mood is in this Chamber, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the legislative proposal in committee. I am pleased with the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132533	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132547	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132612	The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, which is a follow-up to the agreement on the future organisation of the gas distribution sector in Denmark. The agreement was concluded in May here in 2017 between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF. The purpose of the agreement was and is to consolidate the Danish gas sector. This is to ensure that the sector is streamlined and efficient, including in a changing energy system. There are quite significant changes in the conditions of the gas sector. We are experiencing a falling consumption and a positive challenge by phasing in more green gases. Therefore, there is good reason to support the consolidation of the sector so that it is prepared for the challenges of the future. The Government therefore stayed in the agreement among others. authorised to enter into a dialogue with existing municipal gas companies and work to form one state company. This bill intends to support the work. The consultation answers show that there is support for the basic aim of the draft law to strengthen the gas sector from among others. Danish Industry, Danish Energy and KL. Danish District Heating also notes that the bill should not lead to rising prices for consumers, and we in the Social Democratic Party can only support this. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill and looks forward to the committee reading, where any follow-up questions can be answered. I would just like to say that the SF supports this speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132807	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010132817	The draft law here, L 38, as the rapporteur before me also mentioned, is, of course, the implementation of an agreement. This time it is then an agreement that the Danish People's Party is not part of, because for historical reasons we are not part of the natural gas settlement circle. But that should not prevent us from looking at the bill here with positive eyes. The agreement, as I understand it, is based on the premise that the recommendations of a report which came in February 2016, which is an analysis of the situation of the natural gas sector in Denmark, and which recommends consolidating the sector, so that, in the future, there is only one natural gas distribution company, unlike the four companies that are today, which own and operate the natural gas network in a very different size. I am quite sure that there is a potential for bringing together the activities of one company, which can then achieve an efficiency gain, by running it together. What is primarily the content of that agreement and also of the bill is that you give the current owners, that is. mainly municipalities, some incentives for them to transfer ownership to a state company. This is done by relaxing the set-off rules, so that the revenue received by the municipalities when selling their shareholding is not offset by 100%. in the State grant to the municipalities, but only by 20%, if the proceeds are deposited and released in 10 parts over 10 years. This should make the municipalities have incentives to get the money out and transfer their ownership stake to the state. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party welcome this bill. After all, we have experience in Denmark that we have the overall power grid in state ownership in Energinet.dk, and there may be very good reasons why the gas network also comes. So, on the part of the Danish People's Party, I must say that we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133045	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133058	The Left, of course, also supports the bill. We do, among other things. on the basis of the speeches made by the previous rapporteurs. It is absolutely essential that, on the basis of the common foundation of the supply strategy that we have, we try to look at what we can do to consolidate and to make it more efficient from the point of view of the consumer, that is to say, the certainty that the supply of gas comes and that it comes at a proper price, and the certainty that, with the challenges that have been, with changed behaviour in relation to the consumption of gas, we ensure uniformity. Therefore, it is proposed that it should be based on one state public system. This can be done and I am referring a little to some of the consultation notes, but at least at a transitional stage I think that is the right thing to do. What the future holds, we shall have to look to that time. Because now we need to make this efficiency and consolidation. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133226	The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133237	It is then a conciliation group in which Enhedslisten is not part, the natural gas settlement company, which works for a strong state monopoly company and which all liberal forces seem to support. It may be sensible to have a handle on the overall infrastructure; I agree entirely with that. The Enhedslisten has a few questions to which we would like answers before we finally decide whether we can support the bill. After all, the draft law mostly concerns the economic conditions in which municipal owned gas companies are sold. I would really like to hear why the state should make 20%. that the State buys some gas infrastructure which has a municipal ownership. If it were an electricity company, the Treasury would make either 40 or 60%. It is evident from the agreement that Energinet.dk can re-sell the gas infrastructure to others if the conciliation circle agrees. In my view, this is a very important point and I would be better off if there were an agreement which clearly defined that this overall gas infrastructure of the state monopoly company could not be resold to others. After all, these are the premises for parts of the main power grid. When the network companies sold the 150-kV electricity network to Energinet.dk, it happened with a clause that it should not be resold. So these are the conditions around the power grid. There have been several co-owned energy companies in the process who would like to buy the gas infrastructure, so it is actually appropriate to clarify through the committee procedure whether it is an option that is considered to be excluded or whether it is an option that exists. There are, of course, also some answers to the question of consultation that, at a later stage, it could be thought that this could be organised in a different way. Yes, there are also some co-owned energy companies that have the idea that you can have such multi-supply companies, which may have some synergies in selling more products and thus might run it cheaper than in a strong state company. I would actually like to make it clear through this committee that this bill has a spill-over effect on what might apply to our heat supply companies, the waste sector and the waste water sector. For what was in the former Left Government's supply strategy was a description of the fact that if a municipality sold the utilities they have, they could be allowed to keep 80%. of the income as a huge sugar bang that was laid out right in front of them. Therefore, it would be nice to know clearly whether this bill has only implications for the gas sector and nothing else. So we look forward to clarifying the issues before we take up our position whether we can support this centralisation of the gas sector in a state company.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133601	Thank you. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133607	Bill L 38, which we are in the process of examining, brings us an important step closer to a unified and consolidated natural gas distribution. In the gas distribution sector over the next few years, there is a potential for efficiency of up to 1.7 billion. kr., such as: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. A saving of this magnitude will not only benefit the economy, but also ultimately the consumer, because it will inevitably mean lower prices. With this proposal, we are also taking a step in the right direction. We ensure a level playing field in the sector across the country because we ultimately standardise the price of gas distribution so that it does not differ according to where you live in the country. But then why stop there? Like the government, the Liberal Alliance wants to look at the future ownership of the entire distribution company, because it is not necessarily a law of nature that the state should be the owner of this entire distribution company until the gas flame burns out, if I may say so. Why not let private operators or others with expertise in this area handle the distribution? Fortunately, this is also the intention behind the agreement on which the draft law is based, that we should look at it in the long term and work on it in the contracting circle. That is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133806	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133813	In the alternative, we think it is reasonable that, as it seems with this proposal, we will pave the way for greater uniformity in the Danish natural gas network. We believe that it is very sensible to create an overall state-owned structure; in this way you can keep focus on the community use in such a system, just as we know it from the power grid, from Energinet.dk. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133846	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133857	This bill, as the previous rapporteurs have also said, translates into the agreement on the future organisation of gas distribution, an agreement of which the Radical Left is part. The Radical Left thinks it is good that there is consolidation in the natural gas distribution sector and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133921	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010133931	Thank you. After all, the starting point for this bill is that natural gas distribution needs to be made more efficient. After all, it is no secret that the natural gas sector is challenged by falling customer base, and it is of course an expectation that the entire company will be better able to solve the challenges of the future with this action. After all, there have been negotiations with the municipalities, and they have lasted a long time, to find a compensation solution for this, which then turned into a set-off of 7%. of the municipality's state subsidies, so you can get this money paid out. This brings it to the state company, Energinet.dk. Well, that means we've put the web together in this area. This means that you can make it more efficient for a large amount of money. In the long run, this will help to ensure that those who are natural gas customers can continue to have a reasonable energy cost in their homes. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134055	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134103	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I am also pleased to note that it is in fact all the parties in the Folketing who have expressed a positive opinion on this bill. I would also like to thank you for the vote agreement made on the basis of an earlier agreement between the SF, the Social Democrats and the Radicals and the Left. I am very, very satisfied with that and I very much appreciate that it has been possible to do so. That is why I have also looked forward to presenting the follow-up to the agreement. At the same time, I am pleased that another milestone in the government's supply strategy is being followed up here. The proposal brings us an important step closer to a unified consolidated distribution sector. On behalf of the state, Energinet.dk has already begun the concrete negotiations on the collection of distribution companies. Why is a single distribution sector so important? There are several reasons for this. In the government, we see a potential for efficiency in the sector. It is important that we create the best conditions to ensure that distribution is as efficient as possible. This will benefit both citizens and businesses. In addition, the proposal is a step on the road to standardising cross-country distribution prices. In the longer term, therefore, it should not be the part of the country in which you live that determines the price you pay for gas distribution. It is, of course, from the point of view of the individual citizen, but one at least equally important consideration is to create a level playing field across the country for companies using gas. Having said that, it is also important to me that the process of alignment of prices takes into account both those customers who today pay the least for their distribution and those who pay the most. That is why the draft law empowers me, as a minister, to lay down rules that, in a consolidated company, it must be possible to operate differentiated prices during a transitional period. Work is currently under way on a concrete model for this differentiation. Another sub-purpose of the draft law is to open up to exempt certain transmission companies in whole or in part from the natural gas supply law when the plant is primarily established for the transport of gas to other countries. The concrete reason is to ensure the legal basis for exempting part of a possible future transmission line to Poland owned by the Polish transmission company from the law. The law will apply in general. I would like to thank you again for the interest that Things have expressed in the draft law today. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in committee, and I would ask the House to approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134352	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134407	The debate is open. The first to speak is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134427	The Faroese Laying has decided to take over the matter of person, family and inheritance from the summer of 2018. This also includes adoption legislation, and this is precisely what this bill is about today. The draft law must ensure that the legal position in force in relation to adoption from other countries is maintained even after the Faroe Islands have taken over the matter. In order for this to happen, an agreement must be reached on future cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and the draft law must provide precisely the legal framework necessary to conclude such a cooperation agreement between the two countries of the Kingdom Community. Of course, the Social Democratic Party can support this. However, I would like to point out that the responses from the adoption policy forum and the adoption triangle strongly appeal to consider how adoption should take place in the future, so as to prevent children from being given away on the basis of terrible conditions such as theft, abduction, takeover, etc. Of course, we in the Social Democratic Party agree with that. That is not what this draft law is about, but it must and must be dealt with in any other way. I would like to say hello to the SF and give their support to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134556	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134603	Thank you, Madam President. L 11 is of course amendments to the adoption law in order to authorise the Minister to enter into an agreement with the Faroe Islands authorities on Danish and Faroese adoption rules. This bill is a consequence of the fact that the Faroe Islands to Olai on 29 July next year are taking home the matters of personal, family and inheritance, including the adoption legislation. Although the Faroe Islands formally take over the adoption area, Denmark will continue to be obliged under the 1980 Hague Convention to supervise the processing of international foreign adoptions by Faroese authorities. In addition, it is a Faroese wish to continue the cooperation and practice of the adoption board to manage a common waiting list for approved Danish and Faroese adopters who wish to adopt a child through a so-called foreign adoption. Maintaining the cooperation between Faroese and Danish authorities requires a cooperation agreement between Danish and Faroese authorities. It is an authorisation for the Minister to conclude such an agreement that we have to take a position on. The aim of the proposal is to ensure continued good cooperation between the competent Danish and Faroese authorities and thereby also to ensure good conditions for children coming to the Faroe Islands. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party can support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134729	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134742	Thank you for that, President. The Left can also support the draft law, which is so well described by the previous two rapporteurs, in making the legislative technical adjustment that will enable us to extend the cooperation in this area too, but also take the leap in terms of passing the authorisation to the Faroese. Then, in the consultation note, a lot of pluses are highlighted. We welcome this and a few minuses, which fortunately are based on something that is not covered by the draft law, namely only in the good spirit of cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands in this field to give them additional powers when we talk about adoption. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134836	Thank you. It's Enhedslisten, but I don't think there's anyone from the Enhedslisten. We move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134853	Thank you. It's a replacement. As we have just heard from the two previous rapporteurs, the draft law must create the legal framework necessary for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, so that the legal position in force in relation to so-called foreign adoption is maintained after the Faroe Islands take over the matter of inter alia. family law. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the Faroe Islands' desire for greater autonomy, and this proposal is a step in that direction, and that is why the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134928	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010134947	That is a very short comment. I'm a substitute for Mr. Simpson. Nikolaj Amstrup, who normally sits on this committee, and he just asked me to confirm that we are so supportive of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135005	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135016	The Radical Left notes that the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs of the Faroe Islands has agreed to the bill and the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135027	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135037	Thank you. The main message of this is that, as the bill says, the Danish Minister for Children and Social Affairs will be able to enter into cooperation agreements, and that is what we are authorising with this bill. The purpose of the cooperation agreement is to support the Faroese wish that the existing legal status in relation to foreign adoption be maintained after Faroese acquisition. This authority of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs naturally agrees with the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135115	Thank you. It's sir. Magni Arge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135135	Thank you. The proposal has been put forward in connection with the Faroe Islands' acquisition of the right to personal, family and inheritance rights, especially that part of what is called foreign adoption, which is therefore about the adoption of children from other countries. Preparations for the takeover of the whole matter are going well. The cooperation between Rigsombud and the Ministry of the Interior in the Faroe Islands takes place in a positive and constructive spirit, and several of those who work in Rigsombud with this area of concern expect to continue in the Faroese Ministry of the Interior. We expect to keep the roadmap for takeover in 2018. The adoption part has some challenges, including: because there are very few cases, namely 3-7 per year, and there are demands to keep some high standards. The Faroese Home Rule Government has therefore expressed a desire to continue the existing practice in a form of cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, so that all parties concerned can look forward to a continuous continuation of the ongoing adoption cases. This is also the reason why this proposal for a provision in section 25e of the adoption law is made in the Danish Parliament, and the Ministry of Health and the Interior in the Faroe Islands makes a similar proposal for a law on laying, so that the adoption law for the Faroe Islands will have the same content when the adoption of family law is implemented. In practice, this means, among other things, that parents who are already on common waiting lists remain in the same place in the queue and, in the case of parents who move from the Faroe Islands to Denmark or vice versa, it does not affect status in relation to when their adoption case is to be treated. Should they start over again which became the case for those who were on the list of adoptions from Ethiopia when it was cancelled there is a risk that they will lose significant time and may become too old to carry out an adoption. The new provision authorising the Minister of Children and Social Affairs to enter into agreements on the relationship between the rules for adoption for Denmark and the Faroe Islands will establish the framework for cooperation between the Danish and Faroese authorities after the Faroese adoption area has been completed and will then determine in particular the competence of authorities and adoption-formulating organisations. A cooperation agreement must also include rules on termination of the agreement with a certain amount of notice, such as: if the current regulatory harmony in the field of adoption lapses. I have also read some of the critical consultation responses concerning the Hague Convention and its proposal that the Faroe Islands should adopt, if I may say so, the UN Convention on Children, but as the matter stands, the Faroese authorities consider that the most robust continuation is through cooperation that is consistent with the existing procedures. But I can then comment on the fact that although this cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands is being concluded, the Faroe Islands will still be able to change their practices at a later stage, possibly with the result that cooperation cannot continue if there are significant differences in the rules. Perhaps that would be a question if the Faroese side wanted to have only one adoption list and not more adoption lists distributed across different countries, as is the case in Denmark, and if one wanted to accede to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child instead of the Hague Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135518	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale is not here, so that's Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135539	I don't have much to add. I understand that we must continue to be obliged to supervise and also keep the common waiting list. And when I hear the Faroese representative Mr. Magni Arge say that he is aware of the comments that have been made on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, I feel confident that we are adopting this bill. For then it may mean that we can also make the good improvements that actually lie in looking at the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135618	Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135625	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, to the rapporteurs, and thank you for receiving the bill; I would like to sign for that. After all, it is a legislative proposal which aims to support the Faroese wish that the current legal situation in relation to foreign adoption be maintained after a Faroese takeover of the matter. And it is a prerequisite for this that an agreement will then be reached on the future cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. The draft law must therefore create the legal framework necessary for the conclusion of such a cooperation agreement, and it is good to hear that it is also doing well to take home the rights of the individual, the family and the succession. By the way, I can only add that the entry into force of the law coincides with the time when the Faroe Islands are having their national festival day in 2018. And, of course, I am available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135714	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135741	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea doesn't seem to be here, so we're moving on. And then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010135808	Thank you for that, President. L 12 deals with a number of amendments to the Services Act, the General Housing Act and the Psychologists Act. There is a clarification about the rules on the law on the payment of disabled cars. It is made clear that an overall assessment must be made of which car is the cheapest and best suited to meet the needs. That part is part of the adult regulations that have been concluded in a joint agreement. Many of the consultation responses are positive about the clarifications. However, it should be noted that, if exceptional circumstances were to be removed, this would not be in accordance with the legislative provision and the regulation on aid to the motor vehicle industry. And I think that there will have to be a close look at that clarification. In the Danish People's Party we find it totally unacceptable with the long processing times that are in some municipalities in connection with the application and re-granting of disabled cars. After all, the Ankestyrelsen has carried out an investigation in this area, and it shows that the duration of the proceedings varies from 11.79 weeks in the fastest municipality to 81.13 weeks in the municipality which is the longest time to deal with the cases. The Danish People's Party considers that this is an area that the Minister must follow closely, including implementation and also, in relation to best practice being widespread. We think it is reasonable to increase the use of beliefs and declarations of law, where the citizen signs that one still has the same need and that one's ability to function has not improved. Then the re-funding cases could go a little faster. The notice which is going to deal with this part must also reflect the agreement we made on the adult provisions of the Service Act, where it is written in the agreement that compulsory use of faith and legislative declarations is to be introduced when granting aids if the ability to function is essentially unchanged. And then it has also been said out loud from the platform when the Minister has to look at that part. After all, an agreement has been reached between KL and the government, where they have agreed to simplify the framework agreement concept in the social field, so that it is also adapted to the developments that have taken place locally in municipalities and regions. In addition, with this bill, it is also proposed to give the Social Security Authority a competence which means that they can issue an injunction to an offer if the information provided, which is published on the Offer Portal, is not in line with the facts. With regard to experimental schemes, which deal with the experimental clause which dates back to 1982, which will extend the scope for attempts in the social field, so that also regional councils and private offers can apply for an experimental approval, this is part of the proposal that we in the Danish People's Party have been focusing on, in other words, that there should be no possibility of attempts to do something that would put citizens at a disadvantage in relation to the legislation we have today and that there should be no derogation from the rules of the Services Act on access to justice, since this is a fundamental guarantee of legal certainty. I note, however, that Danske Handicap organisations do not think that this is clear enough from the draft law, so I can already say that I will ask that question in writing so that we can have it included in the report. As part of the agreement on a dementia action plan, funds were set aside for the development of a national labelling scheme for self-contained dwellings, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and therefore the temporary legal basis for the Minister is made permanent by this bill so that the Minister can lay down rules for the implementation of a labelling system. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we believe that it is a condition that the circle of agreements on the dementia action plan is also in agreement with this. This bill also deals with the Psychology Act, and it is a question of changing the decision-making authority of the Psychology Act so that not all members of the Psychology Board need to be present. The quorum shall be valid when the President or the deputy of the President and four out of the six other Members are present. Yeah, this bill is kind of a bag of mixed candy. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we look forward to the committee reading and we also support the proposal at the moment, unless something unexpected appears. And then, of course, I think that the Ministry should consider not putting so many different proposals, which relate to so many areas, together in one legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010140247	Thank you to the rapporteur. If you're late, you get to the end of the line, that's the way it is. But you get the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010140307	The Left can support the proposal and, if the audience and viewers think, what kind of a proposal is it with a certain amount of wonder, I can understand it because it is a single proposal which concerns everything from disabled cars to the decision-making capacity of psychologists. These are impact changes in relation to a number of existing laws, in which adjustments can be made appropriately, as the previous rapporteur has so excellently explained. Thank you for that to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. The same rapporteur then points out that, in relation to the experimental authorisations and the adaptation of those rules, there are some concerns, and I agree with the rapporteur that we must, of course, follow that up. However, I have a different approach to it immediately, namely that the current experimental rules for alternative ways of working in the social field have been written for a while. I think that from the beginning of the 1980s they did not have the same look at some of the things that we should have a look at, for example. focus on legal certainty. Legal certainty, being consulted by the parties in contact with public authorities, is incredibly important and something fundamental that we must safeguard, and I am therefore pleased that this element, namely legal certainty, is included as part of the experimental arrangements in this joint legislative proposal which the Left can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010140459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010140514	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say the same thing as the two previous rapporteurs have said, namely that this is quite a mixed country trade. I would also like to say that I think this is a matter of course. And quite recently we had discussions in connection with the Bureau's conference on Parliament's working methods, which resulted in this bringing together proposals which basically do not have anything to do with each other, is a bad thing. This may, of course, bring parties a situation in which, in a sense, much of what is presented in a given legislative proposal is reasonable, but there may be elements that are questionable. And that is why it is possible to find ourselves in a stupid situation where the vote on a proposal is actually going to vote against a number of proposals with which we are in agreement. And I will not rule out the possibility of this being the case for us with this proposal. We can endorse most of the proposals contained in the draft law here. This applies to the proposal for loans for disabled cars, to the Danish Social Protection Agency's sample of information on the Offer Portal, to the simplification of the framework agreements in the social field, to the national labelling system for self-contained housing, and to the proposed changes in the rules for the Psychologist Board. We all think this is sensible adjustments, although they are not dramatic in any way. On the other hand, we are somewhat sceptical about the part of the proposal which extends the social clause. In the consultation answer we have received from Danish Handicap organisations, it is written that you cannot see a need for the proposed enlargement. I can understand that. I believe that there is a need to adjust the experimental clause. The rapporteur of the Left said that it was quite old and that it might need to be adjusted in relation to the developments that have taken place in the last approx. 35 years. But I would like to say that I understand that there is this ambiguity, because it is not quite clear what the change is going to achieve. In other words, today there is a limited possibility of change. It is certain rules, certain parts of the Service Act, that you can experiment with, while the proposal here says that you will be able to experiment with everything within the framework of the Service Act. It is possible that it should be possible to do so in further areas than those laid down by the current rules. But we will need clarification from the Minister: what are the attempts that this amendment of the law gives access to, which is not available today, and what is really the need for it? We share the concern about citizens' legal certainty expressed in the response from Danske Handicaporganisations. The Ministry addresses the problem itself, and I think that the comments made by Danish Handicap organisations prior to the final drafting of the bill have been fairly met. There are a large number of examples which describe how citizens' legal certainty will be guaranteed in practice, but we still do not think that what is at stake is entirely reassuring. We need to clarify the possible consequences of the extended study access. Another concern about the proposal is the extension of the experimental provisions, in other words the extension of the circle which can apply to initiate experiments to include private offers. We have read the concerns expressed by the Danish Social Advisor Association, and we believe that there are grounds for concern that private offers, which are also described in the legislative notes as offers that can be run by private groups or group-like enterprises, should be able to have an experimental access outside the municipality. And as a minimum, I think it could be pointed out to address the proposal that the Danish Social Advisor Association has in their hearing answer, namely that the municipality must also approve such an experiment before it reaches the Ministry of Social Affairs. All in all, therefore, a statement that it must be five out of six of the proposals before us that we think are excellent. We are deeply concerned about the proposal on trial access. And we will ask a number of questions and look forward to clarifying the consequences before we can finally take a position on how we deal with the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141006	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141010	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I welcome what the rapporteur can support and am somewhat surprised by what the rapporteur is concerned about, and I note that this is the way the rapporteur puts it, which is why it is legitimate for us to find out in the future. However, if I ask for the floor, it is because there is a slight discrepancy between what I, as rapporteur, have to say and what Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur has to say. Firstly, with regard to experiments, could it be that the rapporteur could explain a little why it is that it is believed that municipalities can be included in experiments, but not regions, which are also the new ones in the legislative proposal? Secondly, does the rapporteur not recognise that a number of institutions, which today make a great deal of effort for socially vulnerable citizens, are anchored in foundations and self-serving institutions with which we cannot experiment today but which we would like to be able to do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141112	I did not mention the regions. However, we do not want to have the slightest objection to the regions being included in experimental access as well. We find it problematic that there may be private companies in a municipality which, bypassing what is actually the authority in this area, are able to seek trial access directly from the Ministry. We think it is right that the local authority, which also has financial responsibility, is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141139	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141142	It is clear that when you are an operator as a voluntary organisation, as an independent organisation or as a private organisation, they are responsible for operating those who make the contract, i.e. the municipalities. If we can get this straight, I think it should be considered with the experiment. Because then you don't have to do the privatisation rhetoric, but then you can quietly say that the citizen cares that a service is being provided. Whoever delivers it is not the most important thing, as long as it is in order and that it is the operator of your example, the municipality, who is responsible. I think we can land this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141223	As the proposal now stands, it is very clear that the municipal authority can be bypassed. We don't think we should be able to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141233	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141243	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is indeed a legislative proposal which extends in both the East and the West. There are really many different proposals in this overall proposal. But overall, we are in favour of the Liberal Alliance. We think it is positive that we want to clarify how to assess an application for assistance for disabled cars. We think it is a good idea to create clear rules for the Danish Social Protection Agency's spot checks. We think it is very good to expand the possibilities of carrying out experiments in the social field. We also think it is a good idea to make the framework agreements in the social field more flexible. We think it is a good idea to give this authority to lay down rules on this labelling scheme for dementia homes, which has been agreed with the latest agreement on the rate pool, and we also think it makes sense to make the Psychologist's Board of Supervisors quorum, even if not all Members are present, which is at the request of, among others, the Commission. The Psychology Board itself. So, overall, we agree with the comments that have fallen on such content and to package so much together in one legislative proposal, but we think that these are really positive measures, and we support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141408	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141416	Thank you very much. There's nothing in this that we can't support. It is, of course, packed together as six proposals in one. It is worst when it is so that there are some really bad thistles; then it is that one can get a bit of a dilemma. However, the fact that there is some kind of packaging may also be interesting, because it is also a proper round if we have to get up here six times all to get such proposals adopted here. We think it would be good if a round were to be made with the experimental work, but we also think it is a fine proposal from SL that the municipalities should perhaps approve the experiments. All in all, although it is a package of six proposals, we can easily support them all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141456	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141512	As previous rapporteurs have just said, L 12 is a single law, which consists of a whole host of different elements. Former rapporteurs have also explained this, and I will therefore not do so, but merely say that the Radical Left can support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141535	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141543	Thank you. I would like to begin by joining in the chorus of many who say that, unfortunately, it has become more the rule than the exception, that all kinds of proposals are mixed together in a debate, in this case both in the field of disability under the Services Act, framework agreements in the social and housing field, rules on experiments in the social field, the quorum in the Psychologist Board and rules on spot checks in relation to the Offer Portal. I think that is also a bad thing, which in some cases can put us in a cat-ache, because you can vote against otherwise sensible proposals because there are elements that you are opposed to. Fortunately, this is not the case mostly in this round. On the whole, the SF can support the bill, in which there are also elements of a few agreements that we ourselves are behind. In this context, we would particularly like to emphasise that it is good that it is now being specified when a citizen is entitled to an extended loan for the payment of a disability car, so that in future it is only an aptitude criterion that is valid and that we are now implementing a national labelling scheme for de minimis housing. However, allow me here to call on the Minister of Social Affairs to reconsider the quite regular, I think, comments from stakeholders in relation to disabled cars, namely to try to solve the problem of the excessively long processing times. In the same way, I think that, in the context of simplifying framework agreements, there may also be room for a few reflections on strengthening the specialised areas which, as you know, have had some difficult conditions since the 2007 municipal reform. Finally, as others have also said, we are going to ask a number of questions about the experiments in the social field in order to clarify what exactly we think is needed and to ensure at least that the municipalities are involved in the decisions on the considerations that need to be considered. We hope that we can have some good discussions in committee on this, but in addition we expect to be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141812	Thank you. As has been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, it is about changes in the Services Act, the General Housing Act and the Psychology Act, and these are technical changes, and then there are changes in areas where experience has been gained. I just want to take one thing off of this, which I think is important, and it's about this social experiment. It is the case that the draft law requires that there is no authorisation for experiments involving the disadvantage of the citizen. So let me say a few words about these technical changes, that is to say what is put together in six proposals in this area. That is how, I think, when you are in government, it is a practical necessity that you gather something from time to time in a legislative proposal, and when you are in opposition you are critical of it. In our area, in the field of Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights, we have 24 legislative proposals in this session, together the Danish Parliament has 222 legislative proposals that have been submitted now, and then one would imagine, if this were to be specified in many legislative proposals, how it would end if we did so in all areas. So Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141945	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010141953	I regret that the previous proposals went faster than I had calculated. In relation to L 12, however, we in the Social Democratic Party are prepared to back up the debate without a few comments. I share the view that it is a pretty pearl that has been put together here and that it is not dressable. It may make sense for the insightful official, but for citizens it must be difficult to see the coherence of the series of changes proposed here. Moreover, I agree with the democratic problem, which may arise from the fact that we cannot vote against, even though there are elements which we would actually like to see promoted. Can I say, on extended loans for the payment of disabled cars, that we think it is sensible to clarify the rules for the admission of cars on a disability basis and that the proposal envisages a single overall assessment of which car best meets the needs of the citizen in the current case. We acknowledge the desire to simplify, but we note that the disability organisations point to an imbalance in what has been presented, and we will, of course, drill into that in the following committee work. We are open to attempts in the social field, and here we have the opportunity for a wider group of actors in the resolution of social policy. Of course, our demands for experiments are that there should be openness and transparency when it comes to testing. We will be interested in this in future committee work. Of course, with regard to spot checks on notifications to the Offer Portal, our desire for openness and transparency also applies when it comes to identified discrepancies between descriptions of offers and their actual content. For us it is good that the Social Security Authority has the power to take decisions in such cases and it seems quite natural that the decisions apply to the specific institution and not to its authority. We are in favour of changes in the psychology system. With regard to the simplification of the framework agreement concept, we have a number of points of principle which I should just like to outline briefly. The organization of tasks in the social sector has been given a major element of agreements. Agreements are often good and especially in the case of agreements between equal partners. With the content of this proposal, it is proposed that these agreements should no longer apply for a one-year period but for a two-year period. It is a step in the right direction, but there are still challenges calling for solutions. The parties to the agreements are not equal to the municipality and the region. The municipalities may impose charges which the region must comply with and which do not do so, the municipality is entitled to take over the offer. Such an agreement does not increase the quality of the contract. Agreements can be concluded so that an offer for a period of time solves specialized tasks for the municipalities of an entire region, and in the next agreement the home municipality may request the removal of this offer. It does not promote continuity. For the latter reasons, we in the Social Democratic Party will continue to make the right to find better ways of doing things. With regard to the dementia regime, I would say that dementia in these years is an area of interest to our entire society and, above all, to the citizens who come into contact with a family affected by dementia. We all want to make a wholehearted effort in this area, and part of this may be to inform clearly about the conditions for an offer to solve the task of caring and caring for demented citizens. So it is natural to impose an obligation to provide information on this subject by means of a labelling system, but we must be surprised that it is only the public offers that are imposed on this obligation to provide information. We certainly think, and we will work towards this, that private services, including free-care homes, should inform in the same way. I myself am on the board of a free-care home, and I think it would be a loving duty for the free-care homes to take on that part as well. Then, by the way, we believe, we must practice to create even better conditions for our demented and elderly with other sufferings. It is merely mentioned to indicate that there is a great task here for our society. Otherwise, however, we are constructively involved, and we are well prepared to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142451	Thank you, President. I would also like to start by signing off on the constructive debate that has taken place. After all, the bill contains a number of different changes to social legislation, and it has been called everything from a pretty light bulb I noted that it was pretty and that it was not just a light bulb to everything good from the sea. One might say that these are not major changes, that is true, but that certainly does not mean that they are of no value. It is particularly important that, with the proposed amendments, we clarify the rules for extended loans to citizens who need a disabled car and that we simplify the rules on framework agreements for municipalities and regions. Then, with the bill, we would also like to create better opportunities for attempts in the social field, among other things. by giving regions and private offers the opportunity to think new. It must, of course, be with clear limits on what these experiments should be like. At the same time, we are actually ensuring the legal certainty of citizens with clear demands on the trials. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142559	Thank you, Minister. There's just one question. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142603	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I just want to hear whether the Minister will confirm from the platform that when we talk about experimental schemes, these are schemes that cannot put citizens at a disadvantage than the legislation we have today, that is, the rules of the Services Act, and that citizens' legal certainty in relation to the law on redress is still the same if they make experimental arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142631	Thank you. I can fully confirm that. In fact, it is very clearly written into the law what the limits are for what can be given experimental approval for. It is written into the law that no approval can be given for experiments which exactly mean that the citizen is disadvantaged. Nor can trials involving a derogation from the rules on supervision be authorised, nor can trials derogating from the rules on redress be authorised. So I can fully confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142701	Thank you. Then I thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights, and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142719	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142737	The legislative proposal is the result of a full harmonisation directive from the European Union, which must be implemented by next year's change of year at the latest. The aim of the bill is to protect the traveller from the insolvency and bankruptcy of travel providers. Travellers today often compose even their travels, where several parties are involved, of which the word composite travels. With the bill, the traveller will be better protected. The law will apply to traders providing, selling or distributing package travel or mixed travel arrangements. The number of undertakings covered by the scheme, which will register and provide guarantees, will increase. Finally, suppliers in third countries must also register and provide guarantees. The draft law also envisages a reduction in the administrative costs of the travel guarantee fund through efficiency and a reduction in the provision of guarantees for all tour operators in general. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill because it is a step forward that the scope of the travel guarantee fund should be extended. But we are very aware that we may be on the way to creating a very difficult and complicated law and that it can cause problems. There are also problems with the definition of when something is a complex journey, and we also want that to be carried out during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142910	We thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the Danish People's Party by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010142921	Thank you very much. The draft law put forward here by the government concerns the challenge we face in relation to these complex travel arrangements. There is nothing new in the fact that the Danish People's Party has a great interest in ensuring consumers. They also need better coverage when they are in a situation where, for example, companies and travel companies go back and forth and close and they lose their travel purchases. We agree with the government that this bill is helping to adapt the protection of competition for travellers, and it is also helping to embrace some of the new challenges we have faced today in relation to the fact that more and more people themselves put together their journeys in different ways. It is very normal for flights to be bought in one place and overnight accommodation somewhere else, etc. etc. Those parts will be improved with the bill that is being discussed here. We also have a better registration model compared to third country companies, which are also required to register in the European Union, and they also have to pay the guarantees that are needed to become part of the scheme. Then, of course, it is also clear that losses are only covered in relation to those who have entered into agreements with registered providers. The draft law also provides for a better organisation in relation to the management of the fund, which states precisely that in future the President must be independent of business interests and organisational roles, and also ensures that one of the members must have an economic or accounting background. Perhaps I think it should be a clear assumption when you are enlisted for such board posts. Overall, we think it is a bill that makes good sense and that provides better conditions for the many Danes who want to organise and carry out their travel abroad, and on that basis we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143131	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143139	Thank you. As my previous colleagues have already described, it is a consequence of a new package travel directive that makes it necessary for us to have the rules on the Travel Guarantee Fund adjusted. We are all concerned that there is proper consumer protection when buying travel, and there has probably been a little bit of the way in which we buy travel today compared to the past, when a package trip was that you called your well-known charter company, and then they were about to make a complete package. It is not just today, because there are a lot of people sitting at home at the PC or on the iPad and knitting a pack together themselves. Of course, it is not very appropriate that, depending on how one has bought one's journey, one should be different, and that is basically what the draft law corrects, namely the introduction of a concept called the setting up of travel arrangements. This means that the well-known coverage that has been available for many years on package travel will also apply when buying a so-called composite travel arrangement. It makes very good sense for us to ensure that consumer coverage follows developments on the market. I also think it is worth emphasising that the way in which the scheme is financed is being adjusted, in other words, that the turnover ranges that exist are being changed. This basically means that it becomes a know-how cheaper and most for companies with a turnover below 15 million. kr., and companies that convert for less than 1 million. kr. I'm gonna let go. We are also getting things right, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, the awkward situation which has been that the guarantee fund has also paid for cracked companies which have not been part of the scheme. It is now being made clear that, of course, you must be part of the scheme so that you as a consumer can also be covered, and you will also have some opportunities to double-check, so that you are sure that those who buy a journey are covered by the guarantee scheme. It makes really good sense. As I said, it is basically a question of updating the legal basis to reality. This is the result of a package travel directive from the European Union. This ensures proper consumer protection, and we of course support that on the part of the Left. I have promised to say that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143421	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143429	The reason for the proposal is, of course, that we have an EU directive that needs to be implemented, which is about package travel and which the new one is about complex travel arrangements. This is, of course, a total harmonisation directive, as has been said, and it is certainly not something we like in the Enhedslisten in principle. We do, among other things. It is not because it deprives us of the possibility of setting up national special arrangements if we believe that consumer protection, for example, is to be protected. should be better than what the directive prescribes. Moreover, the EU directive is implemented in Danish law by means of a later legislative procedure, namely by L 33 under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but here we must then deal with the consequences of the EU directive on the law on a travel guarantee fund. It may be a little wonder that the draft legislations L 5 and L 33 are not being dealt with at the same time in this Chamber, possibly by co-operation, because there are, after all, so many overlaps and common material in the two legislative proposals and their comments that it might have seemed very appropriate. Having said that, there are also things to rejoice about in these legislative proposals. We think it is a good thing that foreign providers should be covered by the guarantee and thus contribute to the solidarity arrangement which the Travel Guarantee Fund is after all. I note that the comments have pointed out that there may be so-called enforcement challenges, which, at the Commission's request, are to be solved by softer means, but I also note in this regard that there is no real negative list, but that the Travel Guarantee Fund will, after all, create a so-called warning register on its website, which I think is quite reasonable. We also think it is good that only those providers who register and provide guarantees will be subject to the provisions of the Travel Guarantee Fund. In fact, I was somewhat surprised that this is not the case today, when providers are being covered by the Travel Guarantee Fund, even if they do not pay for the solidarity arrangement. It can of course be argued that it actually weakens consumer protection a little, but I think that it is the price that consumers have to pay that takes advantage of travel providers who do not participate in the solidarity scheme, knowing that in some cases it may be difficult for travellers to find out who is actually covered by the Travel Guarantee Fund and who is not covered by a given travel provider, for example. But these measures eliminate to a large extent the unfair competition which the law-abiding providers have been exposed to. We are also very pleased that the legislative proposal is not allowed to mean abolishing, for example. the Danish special scheme for air fares. It is a special arrangement in which Enhedslisten, if you can remember back in history, has great lot and part in it. We think it is very good that it is preserved. After all, it gives travellers from Danish airports a positive position, which I cannot understand that the industry is not using much more for marketing purposes. There are also things we are not so happy about. A number of questions also arise. We do not think it is so clever to relax the guarantee provision, including raising the limit to be exempted from the guarantee from DKK 250,000. to 1 million kr. As travel organisers in Denmark point out in their hearing answer, it is precisely at the lower end of the scale that most bankruptcies take place, and this is also shown in the consultation note on page 12. But it is also here that the greatest percentage of reductions take place. I note, of course, that the comments on page 35 actually state that the proposal could mean that the risk of the Travel Guarantee Fund to realise losses resulting from bankruptcies becomes greater. Nor are we crazy about the fact that revenue, which forms the basis for the determination of guarantees, is to be determined in future on the basis of the annual report rather than the last four quarters of actually invoiced turnover. In our view, the current system provides a very precise figure of what the turnover of travel services in a given company is. As you know, an annual report can cover much more than the turnover of travel services. We also think that it is a step backwards that overnight stays in connection with language travel will no longer be covered by the guarantee. It is quite incomprehensible, since it is an essential part of a language journey that accommodation is made by the language travel provider and, moreover, many times is carried out in private homes; but it is precisely for the development of language and cultural understanding and is a natural and integral part of the journey, so why it should no longer be included, we do not fully understand. Yes, there are a number of questions which we will also be looking for answers in committee. Nor do we think it is insanely clear what the rules on mixed journeys are, and we will, of course, use the committee procedure to ask a few questions about that. So we reserve our position in relation to the consideration of the simultaneous legislative proposal, L 33, on the actual implementation of the directive in Danish law. In this context, it could be suggested that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights should be merged just to try something new, but that would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143941	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then we reached Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010143950	Thank you for that, President. This proposal, L 5, implements the new pan-European package travel directive in Danish legislation. There's been a lot going on vacation. You can do it in many ways and book the trip in many ways. You can buy a single package, for example. This is what the law calls a package trip, but you can also put your holiday together today by obtaining offers for flights, hotels and tickets, for example. concerts in many different ways. You can do it individually with different providers, but sometimes you get, for example, if you get. buys a bus ticket to Berlin, an offer for a concert experience. And if you accept it and book such tickets for a concert experience through the provider with whom you have also bought your bus tickets to Berlin, then you have what is called a composite journey, and there you will then, in the event of the bus company going bankrupt, be covered by the travel guarantee scheme forward-looking. So that means that it is simply several companies that are being covered by the guarantee scheme forward-looking. It will also be so forward-looking that only companies pay in to the travel guarantee scheme where, in the event of bankruptcy, customers will be able to recover their costs. I mean, you'd think that's a matter of course, but it's not. But we think that's a very, very reasonable change when you're a customer. Of course, as a citizen, you have a responsibility to examine whether the company from which you buy services is actually covered by the travel guarantee scheme. We think that is a clear improvement. Overall, of course, we can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144152	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144201	Thank you. Now it's the first time in this collection that I'm standing on the platform. After all, we've been thinking about what we're gonna do about new things in the alternative this season. As far as I am concerned, it would be even more important to try to approximate the legislative proposals that are coming and to be positive towards them, even if there would be some elements that we may not be able to support. Last season, we often tried to have the bill split up if there was an element we were not happy with or just having a change made here and here. Now we will try to make some changes. I will certainly do that in my areas if there is something we cannot support. So there will also occasionally be some instances in which, at first reading, I am going to stand like this and talk a little back and forth without really being able to give a clear message, because in the hope of being able to reach agreement along the way we dwell a little by saying either green or red in the first place, and that is also true here. I think we're green on this point. I think we're going to think this is a really good idea. I agree with many of the rapporteurs who have been up here so far. In general, we think that it is very good when we have harmonised in a sensible way and take into account the considerations that come down from European cooperation and have them put forward across Europe, but it is clear that this has to be done in a way that does not compromise our often very good solutions at home. But that's what we actually think of this bill. We are confident that the small businesses, the start-ups in this industry, are being taken into account, knowing that they are often the ones who have the challenges of having solidity and the economy completely in place when they embark on a new adventure. However, it will not, as a starting point, affect customers if any of them continue to be challenged during a start-up phase. The guarantee fund, as they have always done, must cover them, and it can be said that it is problematic that some of those who are most at risk of becoming a financial burden are getting away with a little easier. It may be that it is, but we are okay to take that risk, because it is the very large companies that are actually the biggest burden when it comes to the matter. We must then look at whether a symbolic payment would have been more sensible than that it is not existing at all, as it is in the present proposal. This was one of the places where I had perhaps thought to table an amendment. For the sake of good order, should there be a payment even for the very small ones, but for a very, very small caliber, so that everyone invited in when you also benefited from the cooperation? It is a small thing, but since it is the only thing we are actually doing a little bit about right now, it is a rather green signal from us to a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144425	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144438	As has also been said here from the platform of a number of the other rapporteurs, this draft law on a travel guarantee fund aims to adapt the bankruptcy protection of the traveller to the digital development in which the traveller himself makes his own travel arrangements. This is a proposal which the Radical Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144500	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it doesn't look like SF is here. Then we've reached the Minister of Business. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144516	Thank you for your very positive comments. After all, it is important that we can agree on such a specific proposal as this. I think that the issues that have been, clearly and clearly illustrate that there is support for the proposal. If there are further questions such as: What the alternative also outlined in relation to a de minimis limit, we must take it during the committee procedure. However, I am grateful for the many positive comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144549	It was short and precise. There are no questions. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144608	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010144637	Thank you for the floor. Overall, this is healthy and effective competition. At least that's what we're looking for. For healthy and effective competition, companies keep up in gear and this provides good products at the lowest price for the benefit of consumers. At the same time, healthy competition helps to strengthen innovation and the competitiveness of companies vis-à-vis foreign companies, which is a prerequisite for creating new jobs throughout society. Therefore, with the right balance in mind, we must ensure a good framework for competition for Danish companies. With the bill, the government says that it wants to increase competition by making competition law more applicable, both by making the Danish competition rules easier to enforce and bring the Danish rules into line with EU rules. The draft law contains a number of elements which I would like to discuss briefly. Consortia cooperation must have a more clear legal status so that the so-called de minimis rules, i.e. exceptions to anti-competitive rules, are in line with EU competition rules. There must be a clear dividing line between agreements that are automatically legal and agreements that are not, as in the rest of the European Union. As regards mergers, the time limits for dealing with a notified concentration may be interrupted exceptionally if the undertakings concerned do not submit within a given period information required by the competition authorities. In other words, there are higher requirements for the submission of information by undertakings in the event of mergers, so that procedures can be improved. As far as self-accesses are concerned, companies' insight into information about themselves must change what is called self-access so that companies can make less use of self-accesses in investigation cases to gain insight into information about other companies. To this end, the obligation to provide information and the right of access resulting from the future data protection regulation will be restricted by competition control. In other words, it is ensured that companies have more difficulty in seeing each other's information. However, this does not apply in cases where the undertakings themselves are parties to a case, i.e.: is more directly involved, but e.g. for investigations carried out at other establishments, etc. As far as cartels are concerned, it is hoped that it will be easier to notify and detect possible cartel formations, among others. by strengthening the rules on penalties so as to enable an interim application to be made without complete evidence of a cartel. In this way, the turnover to be taken into account in the calculation of the fine can be established. With regard to a Nordic cooperation agreement, the Folketing must give its assent to the ratification of a new cooperation agreement between the competition authorities in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Overall, the proposal contains sensible measures that will bring the Danish competition rules closer to the rules of the rest of the EU. In the committee work, the social democracy will have clarified what makes Dansk Industri, Dansk Erhverv, Danske Architects, Danske Rederier, Finans Danmark, Agriculture & Food etc. stand on the hind legs with regard to abolishing the remaining part of the notification system, and we will go through it with a close comb to ensure that transparency, rules and control are not weakened to the disadvantage of society and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145041	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145051	The amendments to the competition law, which we are now going to deal with first, contain a number of small elements in which the Social Democrat rapporteur was fairly well acquainted, and she also informed a little about the more technical parts of it. We in the Danish People's Party are in favour of this bill. Of course, we have some concerns, also in relation to the level of detail and the concerns raised, but that does not change the fact that we believe that this is actually a number of minor improvements to the existing competition law. In our view, there will be more transparent competition, and we can, among other things, do so. in relation to these de minimis rules, as it is also described that there will be a better equivalence with the general EU competition rules. Then there are deadlines for notified mergers which can be interrupted in the future, and there is, in fact, common sense in some cases. I do not think this is something that will be used every time, but sometimes it is different how notified mergers take place and therefore it makes good sense to open it up in connection with this legislative measure. Mr Egenacces also spoke about the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here there are some improved conditions, especially in relation to obtaining and obtaining information where your own business is part of a case and a decision case. We in the Danish People's Party also think this is quite sensible. Then alternates will be appointed to the Competition Council. We have no objection to that either, and I do not think there are many who do. It is also, of course, the case that the draft law here describes ratification agreements in connection with a new cooperation agreement in the field of competition between a number of Nordic countries, Denmark, Finland, Greenland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden and the Faroe Islands. This is also a joint agreement, which has already been signed in September 2017. It might seem a little funny if we suddenly pulled the blanket under it and if a minister had to go somewhere and withdraw his signature. However, we have the same approach to it as Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party, that is to say that we must, of course, have examined the concerns that have been raised, and we will then deal with this in the legislative process. Otherwise, we are reasonably in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145329	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we're on the left, and that's Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145331	So to start the opposite, I can say that we on the Left too are actually quite positive about the legislative proposal. It may not come as the big surprise, but then what may be of potential excitement has already been triggered. As the two previous rapporteurs have explained in detail, it is a draft law which contains a number of different elements relating to the competition law, including strengthened Nordic cooperation, and a clarification of the rules on penalties, which should make it a little easier to get people who have violated the law and formed cartels to find it a little more interesting to tone of the pure flag and to find out about illegal cooperation. As has also been explained by my two previous colleagues, it is also a question of getting a little extra time for the authorisation of mergers, if the information is not fully provided, so that we can be sure that competition will not weaken if we allow mergers. That kind of makes a lot of sense. The same also applies to the issue of clarifying the possibility of accessing own information, which also guarantees that there are no competitors having access to business secrets. Nobody thinks that's a good idea. Then we have the basics and perhaps the mains: an adjustment of the de minimis limits for consortium cooperation. Of course, this may sound a little technical and somewhat boring, but the purpose is quite interesting. In fact, it is a question of introducing rules that will allow companies to combine more easily in order to bid for, for example, a public tender. The greater clarity of the rules will mean that there will be more companies which can help to create more consortia which can offer a job, with a view to strengthening competition and thereby achieving more favourable prices. Of course, we in the Left can only think of this as a very good idea, because it is clear that the more we can get to offer a job, the sharper the competition becomes and the better the price will be. And there we have to see that there might be a need to strengthen the regulatory framework, and that is one of the main objectives of the legislative proposal. After all, in the Left we pay tribute to free, open and fair competition, because it helps to ensure that we, as consumers, get the sharpest prices. But also if, for example, it is larger construction tasks • whether it is public or private, it is true that the more companies that can join together in a consortium and bid in, the sharper the price we get. And it is precisely one of the aims of ensuring that there is greater clarity about the rules of the game when companies form a consortium and offer a task. This should help to ensure that more offers and thus strengthens competition. And, of course, we support that from the Left, as I said in my introduction. And I have also promised to say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145651	Thanks to the Left. Then we've reached the Enhedslisten, and that's sir. Pelle Dragsted, coming up on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010145707	Thank you, President. After all, as has been explained, the draft law is about amending competition law in order to improve the fight against anti-competitive behaviour. It is, of course, a dignified purpose. Whether it is a private or public contracting entity, we naturally have a desire that there is free competition and that we can thus get the best price on the task we need to solve. These are a whole series of specific amendments and proposals which reach as far as around ^ as often, I think, when we deal with these proposals and which I will briefly mention a few of. On the whole, however, we think that the purpose is sensible. The new limits, trivial limits, seem to be immediately sensible. It may be a little difficult for me at least to see through exactly what the consequence of that will be, but if you rely on the answers given, then it seems to be immediately sensible. The proposal for this so-called'stop the clock' principle in relation to applications for mergers seems to me to make sense immediately. It is not appropriate for applicants to be able to speculate on delaying an application, and so I think it makes sense to say the kind of incentive structure that can be found in that principle. Where a small warning light can be flashed, perhaps in relation to the question of access to self-accesses under the administrative law, in other words under the public law, and the question of data protection, where there is a balance between, on the one hand, the need to provide the Competition and Consumer Authority with a room for action and not an excessive burden on solving this important task and, on the other hand, of course, the need for citizens and, in this case, companies to have access to documents. With regard to the rules on punishment, the part that concerns changing the rules on confiscation is somewhat unclear to me. I mean, I really can't quite understand what the bill says, but I can probably figure that out in the legislative process. Basically, we are in favour of the proposal, but we will take a final position on the committee's work, in other words on how we view the draft law. And then I should like to welcome the SF and say that they are also positive about the proposal, but would also like to look at some of the points I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150009	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. And for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150021	Thank you for that, President. Bill No. L 6 is, of course, a proposal to amend the competition law, and it is, first and foremost, a kind of due diligence in which a number of conditions are simplified and improved. I can mention the competition rules, which introduce a kind of de minimis threshold, so that you look at the market share of companies and not turnover, since a company can also influence a market, even if it has a small turnover. You get a look at the deadlines for notifying a merger. After all, several people have already mentioned this, so that it is sensible, as it is organised and you also get cleaned up and improved when it comes to the company's own approach, i.e. the so-called self-accesses in relation to the authorities' information. So all in all, these are very sensible measures that we support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150120	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150132	We are also in favour of the bill. However, I was a little sceptical when I read through the hearings because there are several rounds from some important consultation parties that say that there is some of the communication that is actually in the draft law, which is slightly misleading in the eyes of the consultation parties. An otherwise appropriate proposal I would like to have a review of, if possible, a technical review. It may also be that I can just get a little secretarial assistance myself, because there are several of the words that work a little pendulum-like, whether it is good or bad. This is something that must help the competition, but I am a little unsure whether there is any legal certainty that is being put at risk here and here. I do not think that is the intention, but it is simply unclear to me. So I think we are positive, but some of the consultation answers indicate that there is a wording in the legislative proposal itself that is more positive than it really is. It is pointed out that something is being formulated as adaptations, which are simply real changes of a rather significant nature. So after a technical review we are certainly positive when we have assured ourselves that the intention is as good as what it ends up being.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150243	Thank you, sir. René Gade. From the Radical Left it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150252	The Radical Left notes that there is broad support for the proposal in the consultation responses. However, we also note that there is criticism that the remaining part of the notification system will be removed, and that part we will radically try to be a little wiser and clarified during the committee procedure, which is why we are waiting in our position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150319	Thank you to the Radical Left. Then we have actually reached the Minister for Industry, who has an easy day with broad support and nice words. It's easy to be a minister. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150333	Don't stop like that. I would, of course, like to thank you for the many constructive comments, because the point is that it is of course important for the growth of society that we have companies that compete effectively with each other and that competition law creates the framework for promoting the optimal form of competition. The aim of the draft law is therefore to make it easier for companies to assess whether a potential consortium cooperation will be legal, so that we will allow more players to go in and bid for public tasks. The amendment establishes a more clear dividing line between agreements, including consortia, which are automatically legal and agreements which are not. We do this by changing the de minimis limits for the application of the law's prohibition of restrictive agreements. The amendment means that it will be clear that cooperation, including consortia which are not intended to restrict competition, will not be affected by the prohibition if the market shares of the undertakings do not exceed the de minimis limits. The amendment brings the Danish rules into line with the practice of the Commission and the European Court of Justice. When the Competition Act was adopted in 1997, the Folketing attached great importance to the fact that the Public Procurement Act should not apply to cases under the Competition Act because there is so much internal information about companies in competition cases, including confidential information. It is important to continue along this path. It should therefore not be possible, through the so-called self-access rule, to have access to information about oneself, or through the rules of the future data protection regulation, to have access to the business secrets of others, nor should it be possible to stick a stick in the wheel for the authorities to investigate, for example. cartels. As regards the rules governing merger control, it is important that there is a balance between, on the one hand, the desire for rapid procedure and, on the other hand, the interest of society in the determination of merger cases on the basis of as fully informed a basis as possible. Against this background, it is proposed that a stop light be inserted into the law, indicating the deadline for the undertakings to submit their commitments, and that provision should be made for the competition authorities to put an extraordinary stop to the deadlines if the information necessary to assess the concentration has not been disclosed by the deadline. The OECD has recommended that we introduce in Denmark the possibility of making an interim application for a reduction in penalties, which will make the rules on penalties laid down in the Competition Act more effective and increase the incentive to apply for a reduction in penalties. It is therefore proposed that it be possible to make an interim application for a reduction in penalties without full evidence of a cartel. The preliminary application must, of course, be followed later by the necessary documentation if you want to keep your place in the queue. On the basis of the comments that have been made here, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law in the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If there are further questions, we will, of course, answer them during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150647	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions, and as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150659	The debate is open. We'll start with sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150740	First of all, I can say that we in the Social Democratic Party share the Government's ambition to maintain and expand Denmark's global maritime strength position. Blue Denmark is one of Denmark's strongest positions of professional strength, and that is why the Social Democratic Party also presented, when we sat in government, a wake-up plan for the Blue Denmark, and it was precisely aimed at strengthening Denmark's global position, modernising our rules and focusing on the green transition. That is why, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party also welcome initiatives that can help create activity, growth and jobs in the Blue Denmark. Having said that, we in the Social Democratic Party, as in CO-Søfart, have attached ourselves to part of the bill, which concerns the rules governing the access of foreign owners to ships flying the Danish flag. CO-Søfart argues that an extension of the DIS scheme could lead to a dilution of the register. They also state that there may be problems with the bill in relation to international law, and at the same time CO-Søfart points out that the scheme may impose additional costs on the State in terms of the right to social security as child benefit and early retirement. Furthermore, CO-Søfart believes that it will not provide a single new Danish workplace. With that consultation answer, the Social Democrats want the attention points that CO-Søfart points out to be fully elucidated and clarified in the further work on the bill. The other elements of the draft law are: "Privacy rights in medium-sized recreational craft, increase in the amount of liability in respect of wreckage, power to enforce sanctions imposed by the UN and the EU, equivalence of publicly owned and privately owned ports with respect to the payment of port charges receivable." We have no comment on this. As I said, we are going constructively into the further work on the draft law and looking forward to further work, but want to have these things drilled out, as CO-Søfart points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150924	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010150930	Thank you. The legal work today is going faster than it was during the opening debate, it has to be said. There are not many questions about the proposed legislation. But we should enjoy it once in a while so that things do not always have to be fought. This bill is a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party believe is in favour of Denmark and Danish interests, also in relation to the maritime industry. We will have the establishment requirements and the activity requirements of third-country shipping companies wishing to be part of the Danish DIS system. We in the Danish People's Party think it is clear that this particular bill clarifies what activities are needed in order for foreign shipping companies to be able to put ships under the Danish flag. Then there are rules on recreational craft in relation to mortgage rights, which several people have criticized over the ages. For medium-sized recreational craft of between 5 and 20 gross tonnes, it is now the case that they have to be registered in the register of ships. In the digital age in which we live, it is better to use the personal book instead, as described, where registration is digitally and with fewer administrative documentation requirements than there is in the ship register. We think that makes sense too. The bill also refers to something that has filled a great deal in Denmark, and that is in relation to the cost of removing debris or definite shipwrecks. In this connection, I have promised to mention that there are some in my party who believe that there are quite a lot of shipwrecks not very far from Christiansborg, over by Christiania, which one might perhaps start with having removed. But I don't expect the Minister of Business to go in and engage in that. It may be somewhere else that it needs to be done. But one thing is to get rid of shipwrecks, another is to make sure that it is not the municipalities that have high costs, or governments that have high costs in relation to ships which, for one reason or another, suddenly find themselves in an area of Denmark. The draft law provides for an increase in the amount of liability limitation, and this then corresponds to the Norwegian model. It is therefore felt that it is better able to pay for the financial costs associated with wreckage removals. We in the Danish People's Party also think this is an absolutely better arrangement than what we have today, where it has been underfunded. Finally, the proposal also states that Denmark must enforce sanctions laid down by the United Nations and the European Union. And yes, we have to, I almost said, there's nothing new about that. However, in the field of maritime transport, there are some clarifications. Then we also think it is quite reasonable that we should have an equal position between privately owned ports and state and municipal-owned ports in relation to ensuring the recovery of claims on port charges at sea, etc. So these are some overall proposals of a slightly different, divergent nature. But overall, it is a legislative proposal that we think makes good sense and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151301	Thank you. There is one question, Mr President. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151307	Now that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is missing a little debate, I should like to take him on the floor and ask a few questions here. Does it not matter to the Danish People's Party in this context that there is not a single place of work in this? Of course, you always talk growth. You always do it in these contexts, it's the buzzword. But you can ask yourself where the growth is in this enterprise. That is one side of the coin. The other side of the matter is: has the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not noticed that he has probably heard the hearing from CO-Søfart, who is asking whether it has been taken into account that this could mean an increase in the number of foreign seafarers for whom, if I may say so, you are suddenly liable in terms of social security and such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151407	Yes, I have read the consultation answers that there are, and I also recognise that we have some challenges with regard to DIS. This is also one of the reasons why we have actually asked for a service check in connection with the business package being negotiated now, when the government has presented the 22 areas of action, some of which are involved in relation to the DIS, and said that it would make sense for us to have a service check on whether DIS is working as intended today, and also on whether the legislative changes that have been since 1988 are working as intended. But that doesn't change the fact that, compared to this specific bill, we don't mind that there are more ships coming on the Danish flag. I am well aware that it is not certain that it means that those who sail on the ships in question in the large, wide world, then also have a Danish passport. That is also what we see today, namely the indisputable truth that many ships sail under the Danish flag, but with foreign staff. But we also acknowledge in the Danish People's Party that if we were to introduce a law that said that all those sailing on Danish ships should have Danish passports, yes, then we would not be able to honour the staff requirements that would be imposed by the many shipping companies flying the Danish flag. But I think we should leave that part of it behind, and we should, of course, take it in, because I would very much like to discuss it with Mr Beazley. Henning Hylllested. I also know that he knows that, because we have some places where DIS might be better, and the Danish People's Party would very much like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151545	The last comment, of course, I am delighted, especially the fact that the Danish People's Party will strike a blow for it. When we talk DIS, it is absolutely crucial that the Danish trade unions have no right in any way to represent the foreign seamen. This has clearly contributed to the fact that today there is virtually no Dane on board the DIS ships at least not when we talk deck crews, and with regard to navigators and such things it is also strongly receding. In my view, this is an unsustainable situation which cannot be explained simply by the fact that we must be able to compete, because then we will be competing precisely on the basis of the lowest common denominator. That is what has happened, and it is the same as saying in jobs in the country: then we compete on Chinese wages. That is not acceptable, so I am of course pleased with the Danish People's Party's comment that this is something that we want to focus on, but for the time being it has not been corrected, and now the DIS Act has been in existence since 1988.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151647	That is absolutely right. And in his first question, the rapporteur himself referred to social rights, and some of the things that interest the Danish People's Party incredibly are whether people who have never set foot in Denmark can actually be covered by Danish health insurance, Danish pension schemes and all sorts of other things, i.e. if there are accidents at work on ships, etc., then the Danish state is going to pay a lot of demands. We would very much like to be involved in such things. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the agenda we have in common with the Enhedslisten, precisely about social dumping; we would very much like to take a look at that. But in relation to the other, as Mr. Henning Hyllested has mentioned, in relation to Dansk Metal, that is also how I think it might also be possible to acknowledge from Enhedslisten that if you ask the various players on the market, Dansk Metal is perhaps a little more positive than 3F compared to the approach to the DIS system at all. And the sailors and others have a slightly more mixed approach to it. So we would very much like to be involved in discussing these matters, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and we would also like to be involved in negotiating them. But in the first place I think it would be quite appropriate for us to have an analysis of and a service check on whether the DIS model we have today works as intended or whether it can improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151810	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010151819	Thank you. It is always a pleasure when we discuss legislative proposals in this area that concern Blue Denmark, because that is what makes a Leftman like me really, really happy. Blue Denmark is one of our strengths and, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, we are broadly committed to maintaining it as a strong Danish position of strength, which flows large currency revenues into Denmark. In fact, we have a tradition of doing so widely in the Danish Parliament, and it is also important that there are some stable and well-known framework conditions which make it possible for there to be broad political support for the whole of Blue Denmark. The details are explained. But let me just say for the record that the possibility of making the rules on how third countries can flag under the Danish flag more clear is a very good idea. For that matter, let me also stress that the requirement that you should be registered in Denmark and operate in Denmark also applies to third countries that choose to flag ships under Danish flags, because that means precisely that we ensure that there is an activity in Denmark and that it is not just a Danish flag that you sail around with, but that you also have to operate from Denmark, and this helps to ensure that there is a benefit for Denmark in the changes proposed to the rules. As others have explained, we simplify the registration of mortgages and other rights in medium-sized recreational craft, so that it becomes a little simpler and easier, by transferring it to the personbook from the ship register; it makes very good sense to make it easier and less bureaucratic. Then we increase the amount of liability for debris. It is basically a sound principle that the polluter pays, and therefore it must also be the case that whoever is responsible for the reality of a shipwreck should not be able to cover himself under any limits on the amount of liability, which means that it is not a good business for the company or company in question to ensure that it is cleared up and thus a risk that it is the Danish taxpayers who have to pay. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party explained, yes, we have seen something similar in Norway, and that makes real sense. This also applies to the other provisions of the bill, which ensure that the international rules that exist can also be sanctioned in relation to decisions by both the UN and the EU if there are shipping companies and ships that do not comply with the rules. So basically, these are quite sensible changes, among others. the equal treatment of private ports, which are given the same opportunity as public ports in order to guarantee the port charges that are not paid, they can now be better guaranteed, and it makes very good sense that in future it will apply to private ports. As I have said, we are very concerned about ensuring good framework conditions for Blue Denmark, and we certainly believe that this draft law underlines that it is a task we take on widely, hopefully, in the Folketing, to ensure a very good framework conditions so that we can maintain a Danish position of strength. The draft law contributes to this, and that is why we support it on the part of the Left. And I have promised to announce that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152156	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152202	Thank you. It is completely excluded for Enhedslisten to contribute to the extension of a ship register, which records ships under a law that excludes Danish professional organisations from representing foreign seafarers on board a piece of Denmark as it is. As you know, I am talking about section 10 of the DIS Act, in particular paragraph 10. 2, but also paragraphs 2 and 3. 3. This is a paragraph which has been repeatedly criticised by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) because it is in breach of ILO Conventions 87 and 98, which concern freedom of association, which is about the right to organise itself, which is about the right to negotiate collective and collective agreements. In fact, it is this law and this register that means that, when flagged by DIS ships, it is widely perceived as flags of convenience by Danish seafarers. And as you know, it is also contrary to what was the intention of the DIS Act at the time... very small with Danish jobs on board ships in the DIS register, especially when we talk about deck crews. So even if there is talk of growth again, you can say, that is, the big buzzword ^ as a reason for this bill, also to expand the DIS register, it is certainly not Danish jobs, it is also about, according to the consultation answer from CO-Søfart, which makes the figure a large, around zero. It is also, of course, all the time that it is easier access for foreign shipowners and their ships. The draft law lays down more stringent requirements for the establishment of foreign shipping companies registering ships in DIS, in line with the rules applicable to shipping companies from EU and EEA countries. However, I would like to say that it is at least the case here that there is some sort of control when we talk about the European Union and the EEA. A ruling in Denmark can thus be enforced throughout the EU, but how to enforce a judgment handed down in Denmark in countries outside the EU and the EEA, for example. in South America or Asian countries? When you look at the examples of requirements for activity, that is to say the activity clause, I have to say that it looks very lax. In my opinion, it is almost rubber band in meter size. It is based on wordings such as some form of economic activity that one must have a statement from the owner of the ship that the ship's operation is carried out from Denmark, that the shipping company must meet the conditions for being subject to the tonnage tax, or that the ship is the holder of the certificate proving that it complies with the safety requirements on board. Nor can it be ruled out, as it says, that various activities which can be documented have a real activity in this country in connection with the ship. It is not very precise requirements that can be converted into jobs and economic activity, at least not in Denmark. The comments to the bill and the consultation note make a great deal of emphasis on the fact that this approach does not make the DIS register an open register. But then I would say that with these very lenient requirements of activity, it is at least very close to the point and that is probably why one is so busy swearing that, after this opening, DIS would have to be an open register. Metal Maritime also makes an interesting observation in their response to the hearing, and some of the rapporteurs have mentioned it. By means of agreements concluded, for example: social conventions with a number of countries Denmark will have to spread its social security network in the form of benefits such as: children's allowance and early retirement for foreign seafarers on so-called Danish DIS ships to a greater extent than today, i.e. through the opening of the DIS register for foreign ships and shipping companies. However, as CO-Søfart also points out, it is not clear from the calculations of the consequences of the bill that there should be expenditure for the state as a consequence. In the consultation note, the Ministry skilfully ignores it. As it writes, the draft law does not in itself bring about changes in the rules on the social security of seafarers. But that is not what CO-Søfart pointed out in their response to the hearing; they simply point out that in the case of ships with foreign sailors on board Danish ships, Danish-flagged ships, the financial obligations will all be greater for the State and the calculation is not included. So unless the Minister on the spot can deny that this is the case, I will of course ask about this calculation in committee. We are, in fact, relatively positive about the other things in the draft law. However, we are concerned about a simplified registration of mortgages because, as the Boat Book also points out, it will no longer be possible to see whether the vessel purchased is subject to debt. This is a problem we know from the car trade and we do not think it is worth transferring to trade with boats. Otherwise, however, we are in favour of increasing the amount of liability for the removal of wrecks. We are positive about the implementation of international sanctions for ship registration. And we welcome the fact that in private ports, too, a ship that docks in the port can be taken up by sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152730	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Then we reached Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152740	Thank you. The main purpose of Bill L 7 is to enable non-EU shipping companies to have access to the Danish flag. As the debate shows, there will probably be some discussion about the consultation answers, there will be discussion about social benefits for foreigners who work or do not work in Denmark. It will be exciting to follow it and control efforts will be discussed if the ships are not near Denmark. But when there is a requirement in the law that there should be activity and office in Denmark, does it not all work out? If you sail under the Danish flag, you have to be under the same supervision and undergo the same checks as Danish ships; that is the purpose of having an address in Denmark. So, when we have had a good discussion of the problems, can we not assume that they will prove to be of limited scope? Furthermore, there are some minor changes to the law in relation to the registration of mortgages in what is called medium-sized yachts, and there are changed tariffs for liability limits for wreckage removal, so that it is ensured that the state does not suffer a loss here. These are all good and sensible measures that we support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152908	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010152915	We are, as a starting point, positive about the proposal, but it must also be open-minded when it comes to the fact that Danish jobs are not being created. At least that is what we are talking about. We must accept that. That is not the growth that is being talked about. Sir. Henning Hyllested's paper before reminded me that there were just a few paragraphs I was going home to look at, because frankly I was not aware of them. We're not going to see this as a stop-block for us to say yes to this. But there are some things where we have to say again that it is important that we do not put too much glaze on such a bill here, in relation to that it is growth-creating and good for blue Denmark. Because I think that it is good for Denmark as a partner in European cooperation and, in general, internationally, that we make concessions to other countries that also have to run sensible companies here in Denmark. But I don't see the big backlash to Blue Denmark in this bill either. On the other hand, there are some legal aspects that I am very positive about. Actually, I only have one obs-point. This is in relation to a consultation answer from Greenland, where the central port authority is a repatriated area, and I could not quite find out whether it actually collides with any work that is already going on up there. We'll have to look into that. But as a starting point, we're positive about this. We also see a kind of small green bottom line in it, because you will be able to use the used vessels better, and if we agree that it is better, after all, that you use the personbook and lose the opportunity to search on vessels, that after all Henning Hyllested says that this is not necessarily something that makes things better for Danish jobs and workers. But from an international perspective, we can stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153107	One brief comment has been made. It's sir. Henning Hyllested, who lives up to asking questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153116	It is, of course, because we know from many Danish-flagged ships, i.e. DIS ships, that there are no strong professional organisations to represent the seamen on board, and it is indeed foreign countries' seafarers that there are major problems on many of the ships, for example. occupational health and safety problems arise if accidents at work and such things occur. I could list a series of cases where those concerned will of course seek help, but cannot get the help of the Danish professional organisations to make it through the jungle of regulations that are needed. It is hard enough if you are injured at a workplace in Denmark to find out the system. However, if a poor Polish seafarer or, with the extension of the register, a seafarer from Myanmar or Vietnam or where they may come from, Danish professional organisations do not have to represent themselves and help themselves through a system if damage should occur if they become ill at work, etc. etc., they're lost. This is one of the major problems with Section 10 of the DIS Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153237	I would just like to acknowledge the problem, as I did in my rapporteur's speech. This is not going to be what is holding our back so that we can say yes to the proposal. But vice versa: the factual nature of the consideration given by Mr. Henning Hyllested says it's a problem for the foreign workers on the ships... we'll see if we can do anything about it. Conversely, it is also difficult to see that we can change that practice, I think, in the DIS regulation. It is then perhaps a question back to the rapporteur whether there is such a thing as a straight line that one could learn more and do to avoid this becoming a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153316	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153319	No, it probably requires a different majority in the Folketing if the DIS law is to be amended. There are powerful lobbyists, the Danish Shipowners' Association. I don't think it's called behind this anymore. That's one of the biggest problems with this. The problem remains in relation to the current legislative proposal, in which the alternative announces that it will not block the vote in favour. However, it does widen the problem when more foreign shipowners and ships enter the register with the vessel, you have to assume, or it is foreign seafarers. There are no Danish seafarers on the ships that are now registered. Then the problem will expand. We could actually help more people it could be a sensible approach if it were the case that the Danish professional organisations could represent all those who had to enter the DIS register on the basis of this. But we can't, we're excluded from it, and that's what I think is the problem with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153412	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153414	But I will take that with me and then say that this must be what we need to look at in the alternative. Can we actually come in and do something here? Can we table an amendment? I do not think so in relation to this, because it is such an essential part of the legislation that is being put forward. So I do not think we can do that, but if nothing else, we can agree on a remark which indicates that if you had a different majority, you could work in a different direction. But I think that the Enhedslisten is, after all, stronger, including on this one. We are also to unite and to create in groups, but in relation to the rights that lie out there, we also trust that the international systems should be so much to rely on forward-looking and that it is not only under Danish auspices that we can fix those things. But that is a problem, as it is today, I fully agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153458	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. René Gade and move on to Mrs Malene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153506	Since the legislative proposals we have had in this Chamber today have gone rather faster than we had expected from the radical side, I have to say that the radical business rapporteur has not arrived. However, I have been in contact with her and I have promised to say that the position of the Radical Left awaits the consultations and, in particular, the consultation response from CO-Seafart.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The SF has not arrived either, but it is the Minister of Business. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153542	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your comments. The draft law we are discussing today contains several elements. Some have been discussed here, but it includes among other things. an adjustment and clarification of the rules on access for foreign owners to place ships under the Danish flag, simplified registration of rights in medium-sized recreational craft and liability amounts by wreckage. The proposal concerning the access of foreign shipping companies to the Danish flag must be seen in the light of the government's desire to maintain and strengthen the growth of the Blue Denmark. And then it is a prerequisite that it is of course attractive to drive ships under the Danish flag. We must ensure the framework conditions, and we must ensure that the rules we have are transparent, so that shipping companies will be able to decide more easily to place ships under the Danish flag and thus generate employment in the land-based industries. With the bill, we want to clarify and adjust the rules for foreign shipping companies' access to register merchant ships under Danish flags. It is not the intention of the change of rules that the Danish registers should become so-called open registers. It is an unconditional requirement to obtain Danish flag that activity in Denmark is linked to the foreign-owned ship. The background to the new rules on the transfer of mortgages and other rights in medium-sized recreational craft to the passenger book is a desire to promote the market for the trade of second-hand recreational craft. It may now be quite difficult to register a mortgage on a medium-sized recreational craft in the register of ships. Therefore, the registration of the pledge in this type of ship is moved to the personbook, which is kept by the right of registration. This is where registration is digitally and faster. It will benefit both owners of the recreational craft, banks and financial institutions concerned. As mentioned above, the draft law also contains rules which would increase the amount of liability which is currently fixed under the Law on Seas in relation to wreckage. The reason for the proposal is that experience with wreckage in Denmark and abroad has shown that the costs associated with wreckage removals may exceed the current limits. I also think it is important to note here that there is no change in the rules on insurance obligations, which is why it is up to the owners of ships to decide whether or not to take out further insurance on the basis of the increase. The Act also contains rules which allow ship registrants to refuse to register a ship or to delete a ship in order to comply with sanctions which Denmark, under its international obligations to the UN and the EU, is required to implement against ships owned, operated or manned by persons from a country subject to that sanction regime. Finally, the draft law lays down rules which ensure that port charges issued by privately owned ports are secured at sea in the ship. This will ensure equality between private ports and public ports. I look forward to further consideration of the draft law and hope for constructive discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153902	The first question we actually have now. It's from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010153908	It is because the Minister says in the Minister's speech that there must be activity in Denmark, and I think it was so, quite literally quoted. But I'd like to ask a few questions about that anyway. For what is it that is to be present in concrete terms? I myself mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that I think it is very imprecise what kind of activities should be invoked in order to be registered in the DIS register. I do not think the Minister fully answers that either. What is activity in Denmark exactly? I fully agree that there must be some kind of representative. You would typically ask another shipping company to represent you, and of course people have a place to go with their demands. However, I cannot quite see activities in terms of jobs or economic activity. But it is possible that I can be convinced of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154005	It is true, as the questioner himself says, that there is no point in simply having a post office address in Denmark. It must be some who have tasks and relations with the ship in Denmark. Just as in order to make it easier to understand, we will translate it into a notice where we will be quite explicit in terms of what requirements there are regarding the establishment requirements. It is clear that the establishment requirements for ships owned by a company established outside the European Union are stricter than those applicable to ships owned by a company established in the European Union. We will translate it into the notice, but it will be the case that you also have to have activity in Denmark, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154050	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154052	Okay, I can hear the answer and it's also quite all right that it's one of the places I have to ask some written questions, so I can get such a list of what you're really imagining, a list of good examples. That's kind of what I'm just looking for. It is fair enough that the Minister cannot just stand and shake it out of his sleeve. Then I would like to ask another part, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. Does the Minister accept that CO-Søfart has a point when they point out that no calculation has been made, an economic impact calculation, on the extension of social security obligations in different ways, which must necessarily result from a bill extending the number of ships under the Danish flag, so that we get several pieces of Denmark sailing around with foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154144	There's always different pieces in one of these equations. We will make it easier to register in Denmark because we want to increase the maritime sector in Denmark. This leads to more jobs, including on land. I would like to address the whole calculation also in the light of the approach that is being taken, and we shall answer that in committee. I think it's hard to make a final calculation of it, because there are a lot of pluses and minuses. But our starting point is that it is a plussum game for Denmark that we get more ships registered in Denmark, and of course also with the responsibility that lies in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154215	Then we can thank the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154233	There are three proposals that are being discussed here, and I would point out that there are thus also double speaking time. It's not a duty, it's an opportunity. We are opening negotiations with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010154340	Thank you. After all, the Tax Control Act is one of the cornerstones of the Danish tax administration. It contains tax reporting obligations, special disclosure obligations, automatic transmission of information, disclosure obligations for taxable persons and third parties at the request of SKAT, as well as various criminal provisions. And several of the basic provisions of the law date back to 1946, and since then there have been knobfires and changes. Just to repeat a bit of the history of the bill, I can say that all of this work is now on top of both a professional debate and political discussion, after which, in 2014, under the then Social Democratic-led government, it was decided to initiate a process to rewrite and modernise the tax control law. That is where we have come to now, and it is, of course, positive to see work under way under the previous government achieving its objectives here under a new one. And I also think that the process itself is worth highlighting, because it sounds like it has been a long time ago, and so it is, in other words, a few years ago, but it has also been a very thorough process and a serious way of working on something as basic and fundamental as the tax control law. In other words, it has been a good approach where external stakeholders and organisations have been involved from the outset in a modernisation forum and seasoned tax professionals have been brought together in a group of experts. They have then each had their own role in the process of identifying issues, respectively, to go into detail and to reword the tax control law in cooperation with the authorities. The result we are discussing here today is the modernisation of the tax control law, the division into a tax control law and a tax reporting law, and then a secondary law amending a number of other tax laws. The foundations of the Tax Control Act are the same after the bill as before. A number of obsolete provisions are being abolished and various clarifications are being made. The law takes account of the new digital communication and the new digital opportunities and also involves various concrete changes, which I will comment on in a moment. The reporting part is then separated into a new tax report law, Bill No. L 14. And then there are a number of consequences changes with Bill No. L 15. We in the Social Democratic Party feel that it is positive that there has been such a thorough process in the context of improving the tax control law, with the aim of ensuring a balance between citizens' legal certainty and effective controls in a modernised, up-to-date law and ensuring that digital opportunities are matched now. We continue to believe that a number of decisions need to be taken and, above all, to be significantly invested in strengthening tax control and improving guidance to reduce the loss of tax revenue and create fairer competition. As you know, the government has so far only been willing to lift the property assessments and the area of recovery, while with regard to the control areas, pressure has had to be put on small concessions and not yet been so willing to take action seriously. However, this is a political debate which we have had a number of times in this Chamber and which we will continue to do. It costs Danes a lot of money • about 25 billion. kr. It is not fair to all citizens and companies who pay what they are to do and who should be able to rely on the tax administration to ensure that errors are minimized and that cheating is discovered and stopped. However, the updated legislation itself, which is the basis for the information provided by citizens and companies to the tax administration, the control offices and so on, which we are discussing here today, is generally positive. A more up-to-date law is easier to understand and apply, and that is not an insignificant part of legal certainty. It will be possible to comment immediately on the amounts in otherwise locked fields vis-à-vis SKAT when you become aware of them as a taxpayer and thus believe that these are incorrect amounts written in these locked fields. The Minister of Taxation is specifically given the power to extend reporting periods in the event of IT disruptions, etc., as it has unfortunately been necessary to do several times. It is also made clear that the tax administration is allowed to control a company that works from a property that is also used as a private dwelling. The distinction between the obligation of information and the obligation of professional secrecy of third parties is clearly defined and various matters relating to the Tax Council are defined. The tax administration also has a legal possibility to exclude taxpayers from changing different things via key itself when there is a significant risk that it will be abused. And these are all measures that we can support. However, the law also means that SKAT will be cut off completely from the possibility of using telecommunications information. And is that wise? Or is it more to drive an old symbolic political point home, on which a lot of effort was spent during the last parliamentary term? We do not believe that telecommunications information should be used in good time and prematurely, and the principle of proportionality with regard to the application of control methods is important to remember here and also to emphasise to the authorities, as is being done with this law. However, if it proves essential for SKAT to be able to decide an important case which potentially also concerns large amounts of money or where fraud is involved, should it not be possible to obtain the crucial information from a telecommunications company? It might be that it would require a special approval from the Tax Council that SKAT had to do so, but nevertheless it would still be a very significant opportunity to have as a tax authority. There we believe that the law should be amended before we reach the third reading, and we would like to devote some effort to that subject during the committee's reading. We also think it is an opportunity here to get the tax and VAT check into the law, which we have proposed that SKAT should be able to impose on private companies to be carried out by an authorized accountant as part of relieving and helping the tax administration to create greater fairness, not least among small and medium-sized enterprises, where unfortunately there are still a lot of problems with errors and fraud. That the tax report gets its own law... then we're over in bill no. L 14 and that the concept of tax return is replaced by the concept of information in various forms, we really think that is a good thing. There will be clarity about the purpose of the two different laws in the control and reporting of the information needed for the tax administration to ensure proper tax assessment. There is much information from both citizens themselves and third parties about citizens to the tax administration, and this is done according to the rules and considerations to be taken into account, to confidentiality and data security. That is how it should continue to be, because you should be able to be comfortable with it as a Dane. And it is positive to note that, as a citizen, unlike candidates for social democratic prime ministers, as political opponents, there is also an interest in suspecting things in general, and that your information is in good hands when you are in contact with the tax administration. With the bill, there will be a slightly increased burden on various players in the financial sector and on employee shares. But the costs are small, it is stated in the draft law's comments, and so it provides better information to the tax administration and at the same time administrative relief for citizens. So we can support the new or adjusted elements of Bill No. L 14. L 15 is so much impact changes in a number of other laws, but it is worth highlighting as something very positive that the political agreement of spring on stronger action against the use of tax havens and international tax evasion is now being transposed into legislation. I am thinking of the legal basis for SKAT to be able to obtain information on transactions relating to tax havens from Danish banks. Tax authorities will also have access to information collected under the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. And both are clear progress in what we consider to be a very important matter and a very important task: efforts to use tax havens and international tax evasion, capital flight. So, summing up, I would like to put a little emphasis on the issue of the possibility of using telecommunications information, and I would like to see the bill amended on that point, but otherwise we can support the modernisations that are taking place here on the basis of a very thorough and commendable process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155209	There is one question for Mr. Jesper Petersen. It's from sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155216	Thank you. It's not directly related to the bill. It was just more to the rapporteur's comment that more resources are needed for tax control. I have been out to hear the Social Democrats say that there is a need for 1,000 extra staff for control. My question, then, is really just what's the baseline for that announcement. How many employees will there have to be at the end when all the 1,000 employees have been employed? And when does the Social Democratic Party want these employees to be employed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155249	But we really want this to happen as soon as possible. What is the real challenge in this area is that there is also a question of a new education. There is also a question of maintaining employees who are otherwise at risk of retiring even if they move on too many people in connection with the reorganisation of the tax administration, so that they simply end up losing employees. But there is also the fact that new staff simply need to be trained in order to recruit those who are professionally competent enough. But another 1,000 is what we have seen compared to the level that was when we made our calls earlier this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155331	I don't remember what the baseline was exactly there. But it must be understood as approximately May 1, 2017. On top of the number of employees who were in the tax control at that time, 1,000 annual work will be done. That's how I understand the answer. It has to be phased in at some point. I just want to know if the Social Democratic Party has a timetable for that. When do you think that these 1,000 extra employees should be employed from the baseline, which then is, let's say 1 May this year? On 1 May speeches were also made by the Social Democrat President around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155413	We are prepared to set aside the 750 million immediately. kr. as it would cost. And we will use the financial resources available to strengthen the tax administration. I am just hurrying to say straight away that you also have to be very careful that you do not tell people that if we decide today, we will have hired 1,000 extra employees tomorrow. It can go relatively fast, and we can keep some people who would otherwise have stopped in the IRS. But it's just to be honest about what the possibilities are. But we are ready to set aside money immediately, in other words from the coming financial year, so that, in principle, if they were there, they could all be held immediately. I am aware that in the first year we will not have the full amount back at home, but I believe that within a few years we may have reduced the tax gap so much that we have 5 billion each year. kr. less in lost tax revenue, and that we will therefore, relatively quickly, have got quite a lot more money into the treasury than one spends on making that investment in the tax administration. However, we can only give ourselves the means to use, we think, when we actually have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155520	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. Then we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010155528	Thank you. After all, we are dealing with three legislative proposals, and what is at the heart of this is the tax control law, which is being revised. When you read the introduction to the legislative notes, you have to understand that this is legal certainty package III that is being implemented and that it is the government's fight for better legal certainty and that it is now the government that is proposing that we should have a change to the tax control law. I would say that it is probably a little bit a signposted picture, because it is, in fact, a process that has been going on for a very long time. It started with a debate back in 2012-2013, where you experienced a lot of bad things, i.e. where SKAT had simply treated people badly. Perhaps the rules had been interpreted a little differently, among other things. so that the telecommunications information was used a little too widely and lawyers were pressed so that their professional secrecy no longer applied. It did, of course, mean that there was a lot of publicity about it. This led, among other things, to an increase in the number of young people in the Community. We in the Danish People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution in this Chamber which instructed the then government to set up a legislative commission to review it here. We then received support for this in the sense that the old government and a majority in the Folketing supported that we should review the tax control law, but not that there should be a commission. The strange thing was that it was already said at the time that it would simply take too long. We had said on January 1, 2015, and then it was said under the then tax minister, Mr. Morten Østergaard, that this could be done much faster by making an internal committee. Now we are here some time later, but the positive thing is that we will have a review of it and that we will now have a look at it, even though it has taken a little longer. After all, the Tax Control Act is a law as far back as 1946, which has been corrected countless times, and so several experts have said that it was a patchwork blanket, and that it was complicated and inaccessible, and I think that most rapporteurs will say when they sit and read this huge bundle of papers we've got for this bill that it's not easy-to-read material. But it is very good that the law is being revised, because the tax control law is, in fact, a balancing act. It must, of course, ensure good control for our tax administration so that we can check whether companies and citizens are complying with the legislation, but it must also be in balance with legal certainty, so that we can ensure that different tools cannot be used unhindered. I think that is actually very well framed in the legislative proposals which are on the table here and which we are now discussing, among other things. also because there will be a division into tax controls and a proper tax reporting law. I don't want to beat down on all the things that are in the bill. It is quite extensive, and I really think that the Socialist rapporteur has made good progress on many of the points. However, I want to make some cuts that I think are important to have a look at, and that is also based on some of the things that were up in the debate in 2012-2013. This is among other things. the obligation of lawyers and financial undertakings to provide information, as well as whether there is a balance in relation to the confidentiality of the various industries. I do not think we should say that we should simply be able to get all the information. But I really like the balance that is in the bill. In other words, if a lawyer or accountant manages money for a client and in principle has an account attached to it, then it is reasonable that you can check that information in the same way as if it were an account in a bank. We are also getting into something which was somewhat unclear in the old legislation, namely that we cannot simply break the confidentiality of information and thereby give access to information which may be quite different from the things we are dealing with here on tax issues. So I think that this proposal strikes a good balance immediately. But it is also something that has been debated here before the first reading, so I would just like to call for it, I think it is obvious that, if there are some actors who sit and think that we do not hit the balance, we will take up the Parliament's Committee on Taxation during the committee procedure, so that we can also have a look at that part. Because I also see this exercise as something that may be able to do that we have a tax control law that lasts a lot of years. Maybe not as long as the previous one lasted, namely since 1946, but it is obvious that you will have a very thorough look at it and get a good and broad agreement on it. Another thing I would like to dive into is also something the previous rapporteur submerged into, and this is the part about whether or not the tax control work can require teleinformation. Perhaps we can say that in the past it was in one ditch where they could only be used to a large extent. Of course that is not appropriate, but I also fear that we are now going into the second ditch by saying that they must never be used. It might well be that there was a golden middle way, and it could, for example, be. be here we have some of the same thoughts as the Social Democratic Party that you had to get past the Tax Council and get an approval when you had to use it here, so that there would still be this opportunity for control by SKAT, but also a balance in terms of legal certainty, so that you could not just use it uninhibited, but that you would actually have an approval somewhere else before. So this is something that we think could be important to go ahead with, because completely abolishing the possibility is perhaps going too much in the opposite direction. Then there is a slightly more fundamental debate. It is, of course, the case today that you have something called a tax declaration concept. So, the Danes have for many years been used to having to give their own figures to the tax administration, and then they were liked by it. Today, almost everything is automatically reported, and it makes sense, of course, to look at whether there is another concept, namely what one bill calls an information concept. What I am thinking, at any rate, may be that we should examine in greater detail in the committee's work: when we do not have the concept of tax returns and people no longer have to be responsible for the information that is being reported, who is responsible for this information? It is fair enough that you may have to have the same penalty for it if the bank reports something wrong or if a company reports something wrong, but there are probably some who have to be responsible for it. What I'm thinking is that it can open up a fraud, because you could imagine that there was a company that reported a huge deduction for a person who was able to use it, perhaps the money has been pulled out in some way, and they have been spent on something and then the company went bankrupt. Then who is responsible for it? After all, it is not the citizen, because he is not responsible for what has been reported and what has happened to his treasures. So there are at least some things that I think should be delved into in principle. I also noted that the CSF has written a consultation answer in which they have also problematized it. It is neither to shoot it down nor to say yes to it, but I just want to say that I think we must delve into it something more in committee work to find out exactly what it means when we make such a very fundamental change as this one. Because that is something that fundamentally changes the way people have to report today, when they themselves are responsible for checking the figures. Overall, we think it is a good piece of work that has been done, both by officials and by the various actors who have been through the past. After all, this is a process that has been going on for many years, and I think that the result has been quite sensible. So I think we will end up voting in favour of this bill, but there are some things we will just dive into the committee work that will come in the coming weeks or months to be sure that we will strike the right balance between the possibility of control and the legal certainty that we have to give to citizens and businesses, so we are sure that we will have the good balance that I think most people would like to have. That should be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010160230	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010160239	Thank you very much. I really want to start this speech by quoting John F. Kennedy. He said: " A victory has many fathers, while defeat is orphaned. With all those who have taken responsibility for these legislative proposals, I suppose it is relatively successful. It is a relatively complicated legislative proposal, it is actually three legislative proposals that we are dealing with together and it therefore takes up a relatively large amount, and then I can be pleased that it does not change very much and preferably should not change the case-law. It is about making things clearer, simplifying the legislation that exists. And I guess we can all see ourselves in that at least it sounds like, and I'm glad to hear that. What we are hoping to do with simplifying legislation is to make it easier for citizens and businesses to keep track of what their duties are and what their rights are. That's one of the things we're hoping to get through with this bill. But it is actually three legislative proposals that we are dealing with here, L 13, L 14 and L 15, and one can say that L 13 and L 14 are what is the old tax control law, which is then split into two, so that you take all that digital reporting and put in a tax reporting law, and then you sort of take what remains and put it in the tax control law, and that is what is all about, instead of a tax declaration, we have to have an information sheet, because there are not many people talking about self-declaring, but we are talking about how we want to provide information, and that we only have to be held responsible for what we actually have to say, and then we ensure that we clarify something for the controllers and a number of other things. In relation to the reporting law, it is actually built up in such a way that when you go in and look at it, you can see if you are a company that has to report specifically for your employees and what it is that you are obliged to disclose. You can see, if you are a financial company, what your obligations are in this respect. So it's really, really logical built up. Then we have the last legislative proposal L 15, which is quite a pile of weddings, because that is just what concerns the technical corrections in the other legislative proposals, so it refers to the right place, and then two individual things. One is that you can disclaim people who are supposed to be able to abuse this with the fact that we have to provide information on an information sheet, the right to write in it, and they can then complain to the National Tax Court. The second is that if there is an IT breakdown, the Minister can postpone the deadlines for informing about the various things. So all in all, I think this is a very good piece of legislation, and I must say for the record that it is absolutely correct that everyone would like to have the credit for this. There are many fathers of this bill, and this is because it starts with a motion for a resolution, which Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær put forward and supported by the Left in 2013 under Mr. Jonas Dahl as Minister. At that time the red parties were against the resolution, but it is good that they have taken it on board. They set up a committee that worked on it, and this government has also carried it on and brought it to the door with three legislative proposals. So there are many fathers for this, and I think it is only positive that many can see themselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010160550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010160609	As several others have mentioned, this bill aims to streamline and update the tax control law. This is a really good ambition, and there are also a great many of the numerous clarifications with which we are very pleased and which seem very good. As has also been mentioned, it has to be said that it is a very dyke work that we have received with this law, and I can also say that we on the Enhedslisten are not yet down in every detail, and we will have a large number of questions, including technical questions, to the law in committee. So there's a lot of good in this. We have some things that we also wonder about. Initially, it appears that the Danish Customs and Tax Association has not been represented in the Modernisation Forum set up to look at the law. At any rate, it seems relevant that those who work with it on a daily basis should participate, and perhaps they should even be more concerned with the participation of the CEPOS and the AE Council, all due respect for these institutions. I think it is important that we have a thorough legal procedure and that we do not go through anything here or do things unnecessarily quickly, but that we have the time to get the thorough reading in committee and also get the relevant actors to comment on if there are any clarifications or further corrections that should be made. There are many positive things in the bill. That is, for example, the case. positive that the bill specifies that persons who receive their information to SKAT are reported via other party, e.g. an employer who is not co-responsible if, for example, your employer does not provide the SKAT with the right information. There are a large number of key issues in this bill which are very good and positive, and I would like to highlight some of them. This is the case, for example, in relation to the clarification of SKAT's access to private homes where there is also an economic activity. It is necessary for SKAT to be able to access the offices, warehouses and production parts of the business, even if they are located in the private residence itself. Otherwise, there would be many companies that could start to speculate about avoiding control, and of course we cannot have that. So it is good that the legislation makes it clear that SKAT can control there. Then there is transfer pricing, which is one of the major blocks of the bill. We note with great satisfaction that the draft law ensures the necessary precision in the legislation in relation to which documentation requirements need to be met in order to be able to claim that the arm's length principle is respected. That's a good thing. Speculation in minimising tax through intra-group transactions is something we on the Enhedslisten's side are seriously looking at, and this is something we have seen with great earnestness for many years, and it must be combated as effectively as possible in order not to be cheated with the tax. One of the other main points concerns the confidentiality of advisors and, as we read the draft law, and we must then delve into it during the committee procedure, there are some clarifications in the legislation which, overall, minimise some grey areas, such as: lawyers can use to avoid providing information on problematic conditions. We think that is a good thing. On the other hand, we also have a few things that we would like to look at. One thing is about telecommunications information, which has been mentioned by both the Danish People's Party's rapporteur and the Social Democratic rapporteur, and that is something we must look at, i.e. how the SKAT under some orderly framework and some legal framework can gain access to the information when it is relevant to the work of SKAT. The second point which I have not heard any other rapporteurs mention, but which I at least stumbled over, is the question of advisory responsibility. There seems to be a big deal in the bill. After all, there has been a majority in the Folketing and, most recently, it has been manifested by the tax havens package we negotiated before the summer holidays, which wants us to look more at the role of counsellors because they have specialist knowledge, a know-how that is absolutely essential for wealthy people who have millions, for example. can place their funds illegally in tax havens. If you have a lot of money and want to place them illegally in tax havens, you will get nowhere unless you buy the knowledge or specialist knowledge, the know-how that makes it possible to store your money illegally in tax havens at all. And that is why, on the part of the majority of the Danish Parliament, we have attached great importance to the fact that the role of the counsellors is more important, because without them the tax fraud would never be possible. There are some wordings and some things in this draft law about counsellors that we need to look at a little bit more closely. Among other things, it says: in the comments: However, the case law shows that there is restraint in punishing forms of involvement, i.e. the involvement of advisers in tax crime, other than that directly related to the provision of false, misleading or incomplete information. It is true that we have a case law where it has proved difficult, among other things. because the cases have been cut down in a certain way or for various other reasons, which means that in practice it has been almost risk-free for years to provide the specialist knowledge needed for other people to cheat on taxes. It's something that's very unsatisfactory, because it just can't be right that it's almost risk-free to give this specialist knowledge, this advice that makes it possible to cheat the welfare fund for a lot of money. It goes on to say: on the assumption that there is no evidence that the evidence has actually been used for tax fraud, a penalty of one year and six months with the possibility of punishment under Section 289 of the Criminal Code is not in line with the gravity of the crime. It is therefore proposed that the penalty should be reduced to a fine. I have to say that this requires a more detailed explanation. We have just entered into a tax havens package in which we look at how we can tighten up the legislation in relation to the advisors' responsibilities, and then, right after the summer break, there will certainly be a bill which proposes going away from prison and going down to the penalty. This is therefore something that we must have incorporated into the legislation, because it does not seem to us at first sight as something that we can support, and it is certainly something on which we need to have a very thorough discussion. It may well be that more is needed to apply fines, but to relax legislation, when we have just expressed our desire to tighten up legislation, I think that, as a starting point, is deeply problematic. This is certainly something that we will delve into the committee's proceedings very much. And to the rapporteurs, whom I also know are very interested in this problem, I would say that you can read it in the comments on page 77. In any case, this is something that needs to be done more. Compared with L 14, it is intimately linked to L 13, since the legislation itself on the reporting part now separates it from the general tax control legislation. And compared to L 15, it is primarily a series of impact fixes based on L 13 and L 14. So there are a lot of good things in this that have been done a really good and thorough job, but at least there are some things in the further work that we will focus on, and I think it is important that we do not put some rushed and rushed timetable here, but that there will be plenty of time to get down to all the details of this law so that we have it treated well and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161430	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161434	I would just like to point out on the subject of telecommunications information that I hear a correspondence between what I said and what I heard the rapporteur say. That is just the way it is, so we know how things stand, if there is now a need to table an amendment to the draft law. You could obtain permission from the Tax Council so that you could use telecommunications information with that permission in specific cases. Would it be a path to walk?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161505	In any case, we think it is important that SKAT can use telecommunications information in its work, where appropriate. Exactly what model we need for SKAT to work with the relevant telecommunications information, we would like to discuss. We have not adopted a specific model, but we do not have the view that we should put barriers in the way of SKAT in relation to their ability to carry out their work. Specifically, which model can be found, we are very willing to discuss, but we have not adopted a precise model.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161536	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161546	Thank you for that, President. It may sound a bit dull and dry and everyday that we have to deal with Bill No. L 13, L 14 and L 15, but behind it is something that I really think the Folketing can be really, really proud of, because whatever you think about the height of tax rates, the Tax Control Act has been a legal problem or a democratic problem for many years. It's very old. It is a good thing that general conservation provisions do not apply to legislation, because it is just before that it could be affected by some conservation provisions. But it's old, it's procreated by knob shooting. It has been very difficult to make uniform decisions. It has simply been a democratic problem. Here the Folketing has acknowledged its responsibilities and acted sensibly, acted jointly, set up expert committees and simply made legislation so that, in relation to legal certainty and to the democratic problem itself, we have to comply with the legislation, even if we cannot understand it, it is a very, very significant improvement. I think that we, as a parliament, and I sense that these laws will be voted through by a large majority, can actually be more proud of than the rapporteurs have so far expressed, and I think that it could serve as an example to a large number of other major legislative complexes which, I think, should not be said, at least not very many either earthly or extraterrestrial beings can understand that we have created. So perhaps we could learn something from this good example and improve legislation in other areas. So this is a really, really important day for the Folketing in terms of debureaucratisation, simplification, better legal certainty. This is something that I hope will come of much more in many areas in the future. What else is of the advantage of the three laws has been said a great deal about. There's this huge cleanup that's taking place, with a more precise framework for SKAT's control efforts. The tax return disappears as a concept I wonder if it disappears as an expression or whether it will live on for many years like 1⁄2 pounds of butter and what else you say. It's really good that you protect people better. If you do not look at the information you receive, it is not up to you to be held legally responsible for the accuracy of information you do not have. So many, many improvements have been made and I do not think there is any reason to repeat them. The principle is very important, and it is really a bigger day for the Folketing than today's newspaper headlines indicate. And, of course, this is something that we in the Liberal Alliance strongly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161912	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Next in line, sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010161920	Thank you. I will continue in the very loud tone that we heard from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, in that I also think it is such a joyous day. Primarily for the alternative, it is a very, very great pleasure to stand here on the first tax bill in the new season and feel that you really are part of the team here at Christiansborg, and we now and perhaps almost for the first time since we entered the Danish Parliament, because in the field of taxation, despite a strong and engaging minister, we found out about this. We stood and looked in and thought: Is it a wall, is it a pact, what is it that we are not allowed to be in? Why are meetings being held without us? What's going on before we got here in the Folketing? What has happened in the area of taxation? Now, with broad support in the Danish Parliament, we have decided that we should have the Tax Commission. What comes out of it is very different opinions about, and I do not have expectations, that it will solve everything that has happened in the past in the area of taxation. However, just as with legal certainty package III, from which we stand and debate individual elements, we are now experiencing what democracy actually needs in order for it to live and function optimally, and that is that the parties are being invited to the meetings, and that there is clarity about what has happened in the past, even if it hurts here and here, because mistakes have been made, that will always be the case, and when good decisions are to be made, it is often on the basis of experiences that are based on mistakes that have just been made. So it's a day of joy for me to stand up here and feel that I actually have insight into what we are making decisions about. So when we talked last year about the legal certainty packages I and II, I was more sceptical. Now, in fact, I can almost pull it up with a large paintbrush and say that with this legal certainty package III, I simply cannot see what could be done, that we cannot, together, vote for it, even though there are many elements that I do not yet have quite any control over. So that's happy. Because I have so much faith that we get involved in the work and get all the information we need. So should we not leave it to all ministers in the current government and in all future governments to invite parties across political divides to every possible meeting, so that it does not become the conciliation circle, just as in the old days it was what it was in the area of taxation? It was so disconcerting that as a member of a new party one should experience entering an area that had such great problems and such a great secrecy. But here we are today with a strong tax minister who has tried to involve himself in spite of this peace of the castle, and now we have indeed got the Tax Commission. Wow, how many citizens from widely differing parties will be represented in the tax field when we have this openness. Because then we can go in and say: We want to be there, and we cut a heel and cut a toe, or whatever you say, and then we'll find some total solutions that no one is standing there shooting at each other with. So this was not so much about legal certainty package III, but about why, in the alternative, we feel that we now have a sense of democratic legal certainty when we work in the field of taxation, when this is actually going to be good when the tax minister launches something that, like if I launched a security party, can hardly go wrong. So security is good, legal certainty is good, more openness in this area, more clarity, more transparency. Well, it can hardly get any better. So these negotiations must go very wrong before I am disappointed with what has been launched in relation to the legal certainty package III. And thank you very much for finally having the Tax Commission, which practically all parties support, and thank you very much for inviting us to the meetings, which I think is absolutely essential for us to have a democracy that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162302	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162305	I just want to ask what the alternative thinks about the laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162314	I can hardly be more positive in relation to the overall fact that I was given the papers just now, which so defined what was overall legal certainty package III, and then here on Tuesday we had a little more clarification. So, overall, I am very optimistic that we can say yes to everything. It is, as I say, a blow to transparency and there is some simplification in remedying this massive bureaucracy that has been in this area. I will not go into the individual parts further than just saying that I can hardly say any more positive about the elements of legal certainty package III and these three legislative proposals. However, I would like to answer specific questions to individual elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162351	That, among other things. is interested in, of course, the question of the use of telecommunications information which some of the debate revolves around, and where we think it should still be possible for the tax administration to be able to use information when obtaining prior approval to determine important tax matters and also sometimes to determine whether fraud has occurred or whether there is simply an incorrect tax assessment in various cases. So, since this may be here, there is something we have to work on in the middle of the joy of a good piece of preparatory work for this bill, I want to hear whether the alternative will back that it still has to be an opportunity for SKAT within a certain framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162433	I am also the Alternative's rapporteur on IT and digital freedoms, and that is why it will be difficult for me to stand and make a complete confession to saying: yes, we would like to do so. But again: if the benefits are as numerous as I think they are overall, it must be something that we have inserted into a paragraph in which we agree overall, if we cannot press on now I am slightly destroying my negotiating basis, in that I am already saying that we are quite in favour. But let's see if we can't adjust it so that we're okay with it in the Alternative. However, I understand the wish of the rapporteur for a tiny bit of concrete statement from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162509	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162516	Thank you very much. In all my ten years here in the Danish Parliament, this is the first time I have been the tax rapporteur, so I shall do my best. There is reason to pop with the flag of the cooperating people's government today. Today we see a very complicated legal complex that has been drawn up from below and outside Christiansborg. The proposals concern the legal certainty of citizens against SKAT and the modernisation of an old 1940s law. A number of organisations and citizens have been working for many years to create a new law on tax control and reporting, and the Radical Left would like to praise and thank the many who have worked hard, of course also to a particular extent in the Treasury and SKAT. The legislative changes are complicated, but receive great praise virtually all around in the consultation responses. There are, however, a number of requests and suggestions from the Lawyer's Council and the Danish Accountants Association, and the Radical Left would like to listen to and engage in a dialogue with the Minister. It is difficult to understand what the proposals will be of importance, and we are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Taxation has indicated that it will be a political discussion in which we can get closer to the proposals of the auditors and lawyers. The legislative proposals are also important in the fight against tax havens. Tax havens arise when countries in a quite unsolidarous way allow people to tax evasion by placing their money in the countries concerned. International solutions are crucial to bringing this to an end. Both in the EU and in the UN, Denmark should and must stand together with other countries to fight for the rules that stop those countries. The bill here translates among other things. the EU directive which requires banks to disclose what foreigners have in the bank. This is crucial, not so much in Denmark, but certainly in other EU countries. We are very much in favour of the agreements negotiated by successive governments and we support that part of the legislative package. Overall, Radicals are counting on being able to vote in favour of the whole legislative package, and I should also like to welcome the SF and say that they are in favour, but have a number of questions in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and then it is the Minister who is allowed to conclude this debate, as there are no more rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010162732	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the almost entirely positive reception of the proposals. That is quite right, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says that as a minister I have tried to wrap this in legal certainty package III, and that is because as a minister I have an agenda which is about ensuring justice and fairness and legal certainty in the way the tax administration operates. It is an agenda which I also understand a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports and which the Danish People's Party supports. I would like to sign for that and that agenda, among other things. is seen in the light of some of the cases we have seen over a number of years. What we are doing here is a very central piece of it, regardless of the fact that it is not something that has just arisen and therefore I think it would be appropriate to make it an element of the legal certainty package that we are discussing. It is a package that we are not going to make in my optics such a specific agreement in relation to the legislative proposal, but it is something where we might agree on a joint contribution to the report or something else that supports some of the political intentions behind the three legislative proposals being dealt with here today. Legal certainty in the area of taxation is now stronger than it was two years ago when I became Minister of Taxation. This is mainly due to the two legal certainty packages implemented by the government with broad support in the Folketing, and with this legal certainty package III, we will then go further and clear up the rules that allow tax authorities to control citizens and companies. Finally, later this year, I will present a new package of legal certainty, which will then be the fourth in which we will look at the reduction of the processing times in the tax system, and of course we will have to have a broad political debate on this; also because there is some legal certainty in the fact that things are widely adopted in the Folketing. And it is especially in an area which is about some of the procedural things that lie below what people actually have to pay in tax. We can then fight over what people have to pay, and we do so to a large extent, and peace be with it. With legal certainty package III, we will strengthen legal certainty for taxpayers at several levels, and that is when you calculate taxes and if you are subsequently controlled by the tax authorities and if you choose to complain about your tax treatment. And SKAT's ability to control and obtain information from citizens and companies are tools that are absolutely necessary, both in an old-fashioned tax administration, but especially in a modern tax administration. However, to control or demand information from a citizen or a business is basically powerful powers. Many, many years ago, before we had the government of Denmark, the tax administration had some very far-reaching and powerful powers, and none of us want them to be implemented. But it says something about the history of collecting taxes, and therefore the powers that the tax administration has today are quite powerful and can be quite intrusive to the citizen or business to which this power is exercised. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the rules that provide the framework for SKAT's control options are both up-to-date and clear and provide the necessary protection for the individual citizen or company. Now we are making a number of concrete clarifications of the control provisions, so that it is at least the political wish that the limits of the control of the tax authorities should be more clearly defined, while at the same time making the rules easier to understand and simpler for the tax administration to administer. As a number of rapporteurs have said, we are implementing a number of initiatives that need to be made clear framework for tax payments, where rules and practices have been overtaken by digital reality. And what is most interesting here is probably that by far most Danes should not report anything to the SKAT today. Others do this, and it is the bank or the employer, which is why it is not right to talk about a tax return anymore, and it is also important to make it clear that the responsibility for these reports does not lie with the citizen himself. It says otherwise at the bottom of the tax return, but it is not reasonable for the moment that it is others who report on behalf of the citizen, and then it must be those who report that are responsible for the information being reported. The citizen is then only responsible for what he corrects or reports himself. That is why we are abolishing the concept of tax returns and making it clear, with the clarification of the penalties, that taxpayers can no longer be held responsible for information they have not influenced. If I may comment briefly on some of the points that have been made, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, that in relation to the question of telecommunications information it is indeed a very fundamental discussion. And as Minister for Taxation, I am starting from the fact that access to telecommunications information is very sensitive to people, and we need to set up a framework for the checks that SKAT is carrying out. And if we gave the tax administration the opportunity to collate all registers and monitor the Danes, it would be much more effective to get people to pay the taxes they have to pay. But it then has some other costs and it would lead to a different society from what we live in. After all, we have some very strict rules on what to use telecommunications information on. This is among other things. in relation to crime, and it is therefore the case that one should be suspected of having committed a serious criminal offence in order for the police to have access to information on the subject. And then it is strange to create a situation where, in principle, the tax administration would have easy access to that information or that the Tax Council had the opportunity to obtain that information. There I want to create some parallelism with the area of justice, and in my optics it is more serious to be suspected of serious violence or rape or other. It's far more serious than being suspected of not paying the taxes you have to pay. Both are serious, but one is more serious than the other, and when we have very tough rules for this in the area of justice, it is because there is something called privacy protection and because there is a great deal of sensitive personal information about a citizen if you have access to telecommunications information. And I do not think that that information should be available to SKAT in order to lift a burden of proof as to whether a citizen has paid the tax to be paid. And I don't think it's a political disagreement... that the Tax Council should have the opportunity to give SKAT access to that information when we're in a legal situation where there's a lot more to do and you have to be suspected of a crime within a certain criminal framework before the police can access this information. There, as in criminal and legal matters, we must safeguard the legal certainty of the citizen, and we must therefore do the same when it comes to taxation. But we can get that done in the committee procedure that is coming. I'd like to say to Mr. Rune Lund, that this is a big bill, and I want the Tax Committee to set the timetable that the Tax Committee wants, and I have no wish that this should go very fast. It must proceed at the rate at which the Folketing wishes it to proceed. After all, there has been a long advance process which began with the committee that Mr. Morten Østergaard in his time set up as radical tax minister, and they have worked, and the bill has been consulted on two occasions; an extended, long consultation process and a large degree of involvement of a large number of stakeholders. That is why there may still be things that need to be worked out, and there is also a political debate on this, and it must take the time it takes. Because here we are laying the foundation stone for a tax control law, which will last for many years, and that is where we have to take the time. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have been involved. There has been a huge amount of work in the Treasury among the officials who have been involved in it, and there have been a lot of hours in this task of writing a whole new tax control law that is easier to manage and easier to understand, and which sets a clear framework for what tools SKAT needs to take in to carry out their task of getting the tax payment. I would also like to thank the people who have given very thorough consultation answers and to the reference group that has been and to the experts who have assisted in the drafting of the new legislation. It takes time, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also mentioned, and I would have liked this bill to have been discussed in the last session. But that was not possible because we needed to get things into consultation a second time, and there must also be time for a thorough legal procedure. But hopefully we will end up with a legislative proposal which sets a clear framework for future tax management, which is modern and which has the legal certainty of the individual citizen and company in mind and can be adopted by a very broad majority in the Folketing. This is also indicated by the reports given by the rapporteurs. Sir. Rune Lund asked me two specific questions. One was teleinformation, and I've been around that. The second was on control for private reasons, and I would like to say that there has been a discussion about out there that with the bill there is no need to extend in any way the powers that SKAT currently has to exercise control on private grounds. But of course, if a trader runs a business from his private home, SKAT must have access to the computer and folders with attachments. If you as a trader do not want it, you must have your office elsewhere than at your private address, but that is only the thing that is relevant for SKAT to have access to which they can access, and there is no extension of the practice that applies today. In the past, you could go to prison while you now get a fine. The Attorney General has also pointed this out in the hearings. I haven't gotten the hearing note up here on the platform, but I'd like to recommend Mr. Simpson. Rune Lund to ask about it. But as I understand it, that change has nothing to do with tax advisors. That alone has something to do with what is practice today when it is a matter of fines. You will still have the opportunity to sentence people to prison, but it is under some other provisions, so it would be most rightful to change the paragraph into a fine, and it will have no impact on whether, in exceptional cases, people can be sentenced to prison. There are other comprehensive provisions of other legislation, but that can be replied to in writing. I think that was something about some of the things that have been asked about at first reading, and otherwise we shall have to answer the questions that the Danish Parliament may have in committee. And then I look forward to a unanimous Parliament later in the session adopting a new tax control law and the accompanying legislation that will apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010163928	Thank you. There's one question. Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010163934	I am very much in agreement with what the Minister of Taxation has said and also with the recognition of the great work that is behind it, as I did in my speech before. On the whole, it is very positive that we can end up with such broad support behind a new tax control law. But as it may not surprise me, I would like to ask you about this question about the use of teleinformation. In fact, I think that the Minister's argument about parallelism is incorrect, because the Minister himself says that it is an opportunity for the police and for the investigation there to use telecommunications information in some particularly serious cases. But then it is not parallelism to completely remove the possibility for tax authorities to use this kind of information. Then you have to enter into a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing, where you can hear well, I think, when you are used to reading how the parties stand in such debates here, how we can do it. I mean, who's going to approve it, what kind of cases and stuff are they and try to find a dialogue on how to include it if you're nervous about the use of telecommunications information? But parallelism is precisely not if you want to cut off the tax authorities' ability to do so altogether, and my fear may be that the parallelism you think about is that you also want to cut off the police from using that kind of information later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164054	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164056	Now the police are not really my area of responsibility, so I can at least deny that I should have any agenda around the police as a tax minister. Basically, however, it is a question of whether you are comfortable with the fact that tax authorities have access to something as sensitive as teleinformation. And there I have to say that I am very careful, even with the cases that have been, in giving the SKAT a power. In fact, I believe that the same result could be achieved in a different way without giving a power to do so. However, this is a political disagreement, and we will have to discuss it during the negotiations. The police have the possibility, under the rules applicable to them, of accessing telecommunications information, including, as I understand it, if you are suspected of tax-paying crime. However, on the question of whether, as part of its ordinary work, SKAT should be able to use telecommunications information to look like people, I am of the opinion that no, we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164204	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164206	Firstly, I think that the Minister of Taxation underestimates the principle of proportionality which is in the law here. If you have the view, as the Minister says, that you will be able to achieve the same with other means and define in advance that this is a very intrusive step which should not be taken lightly, and I agree with that, then it is the instruction to the tax authorities that they should do so by other means, because that is the whole point of proportionality. The question is whether one should be completely cut off from the possibility of using this kind of information in certain specific cases and with prior authorisation. And that's where I hear we're coming together. I do not think, however, that the Minister of Taxation has argued convincingly as to why it should not be possible to find a joint solution here where, in certain cases under special authorisation, that option is available as an authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164302	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164304	Well, there's probably just a political disagreement where I choose to stand on the side of the citizen and on the side of the company. Any power given to an authority can, of course, be used to carry out a task of authority, but it can also be misused. And there I am of the opinion that it is not a tool that the tax administration should have or need. After all, we have a tax-paying agency which is currently bringing in 1,000 billion without access to the telecommunications data, so I do not think that is what matters. Anyway, we have to discuss this with the parties of the Folketing. It should not be a shadow of the great work involved in creating a new tax control law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164344	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164359	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164420	After all, the bill here is the implementation of an agreement that the government and the Danish People's Party concluded before the summer holidays, which seeks to address the problems of interaction in the area of pensions, and we very much agree that solutions must be found to them, and they are quite real and serious. It must pay to save up for its old age and we must safeguard the good way in which we have pension savings through the social partners' schemes. It may also make sense to give a special carrot to people who stay longer in the labour market, which is also an element of the proposal here. However, we disagree with large parts of the proposal as it has been put forward, among other things. It goes without saying that it is necessary to limit the possibility of being able to apply to old-age pension schemes in most of the working life, in return for the five years before the retirement age to be able to contribute DKK 50,000. annual. There we have to say that it looks like another form of hidden top tax relief, which the government is working very hard to find different ways of achieving. How many Danish employees have 50,000 kroner? in free funds per year, which can be used for an age saving? What is it like with the many members of the 3F and other trade unions where you have relatively grueling jobs? Many of them simply do not get away at all to be on the labour market in those years when you get the opportunity to spend extra money on your age savings. So we think that we should lower the ceiling and instead look at whether the period could then be done longer than the five years. In any case, we cannot agree to the arrangement that exists here, which will primarily benefit some of the more prosperous groups in the labour market and not solve the problems of interaction. In fact, it has been possible to produce a bill here, which more or less all of the hearing answers given are quite negative, insurance and pension, for example. and also the trade union movement whose members this is all about, namely that too many of the relatively low-paid people in the labour market get too little out of their private pension savings. But it has not been possible to find a proposal which solves the problem and which the trade union movement itself considers to be particularly useful. We are also opposed to the deterioration that needs to be introduced as regards the possibility of regular payment of pension schemes from five years before the age of retirement. It has sounded from the government as if it was a special reward for those who remain on the labour market a little longer, as if it were a special carrot, but on the contrary, I had almost said, with the proposal will a worn-out SOSU assistant who wants to step down gradually in working hours, from she, for example. is 60 years of age, as it is now possible to do, and thus to supplement the salary with some of its savings in pension funds, still being forced to stay full-time and to be cut off the opportunity to step down and supplement with pension funds, and can therefore only step down if you go down significantly in the amount of available funds. It is not a carrot, it is a kind of whip, it is swinging over those who have already had a relatively hard working life and who may find it difficult to stay under normal conditions right up to the age of retirement. So I think we agree on a challenge here, but in our opinion the government has absolutely failed to find a solution to it, so we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164801	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010164812	The reason for this bill was, of course, a long debate that took place both here at Christiansborg and in public, that you should have a higher retirement age, which we in the Danish People's Party could not support. However, we would like to motivate people to stay longer on the labour market, or to give them a carrot, rather than forcing people to do so. This is then part of the agreement, which is called "Agreement for several years on the labour market," of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part. So, of course, we support the draft law, but that should not prevent us from having a good debate on the subject, because there are well-known challenges in this area. I think we can actually agree on the objective, but perhaps not on the solution. The aim is that work should pay off, but also that it should pay off to save up for retirement. There is, unfortunately, a group of Danes where it is not worth saving up for pension, among other things. because of the offsetting of public benefits at retirement age. We are then partly trying to rectify that with this bill and the agreement we have reached. This is a trade, for example. on the fact that we are making some changes in the form of what is called age savings, which are targeted at pension savings made at the end of working life. In concrete terms, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, up to DKK 50,000 can be added. for the last 5 years before retirement. And in the period before that you can deposit 5,000 kroner. annual. This will then mean that the payment you receive from this pension does not provide an escalation of a retirement pension or other benefits. It's to solve this interaction problem, which I actually have the impression there's quite a broad recognition of. Some of the other things that are being changed are that we change the pension, that is, the payment period, which increases from 25 years to 30 years. I think that makes good sense in that life expectancy is getting higher. That's a good thing. But then you have to be able to distribute your pension over a long period of time. That is quite reasonable and quite logical. The retirement age is then shortened from 5 to 3 years, which means that you follow what you now have on the early retirement wage. I understand the criticism of the Social Democratic Party, in other words that it says that it makes people more difficult to obtain a partial pension. I also think, on the other hand, that if people are worn out before they can retire and reach retirement age, are they supposed to use their own savings pension in order for them to be able to step down? I don't think so at first. Then we are supposed to find some other arrangements for them. Then they will have to work on a flexible job scheme, at worst on an early retirement pension, if they are completely worn out. I do not think that the objective should be to spend the money you have saved yourself since perhaps you were very young, because you are then worn out and cannot take a full-time job. So I actually agree with the problem, namely that we need to have some tools and some things so that we can step down or that we can get a job that is not full-time if we are worn out. But it is more the basic discussion about whether you think that people should spend their own pension savings in the early years on it, the savings that people need when they become retired. Perhaps I am a little more doubtful about that. In other words, I share the view that there is a challenge in this area. That also says in conclusion that there is a question of whether this bill solves everything about these interplay problems, and it doesn't. I think it is a step in the right direction. That is also why it appears in person again in this autumn's debate. Money has been set aside to try to find solutions to this. I think that this is at least one of the things that helps some of it, especially for the group of people who are quite close to retirement age, and it is of course those for whom it is very not worth saving because they are set off in public services. Then you make a change so they can pay in and avoid this set-off. So I think it is a step in the right direction. But it is also a recognition that we do not solve all the problems. But we will have to see if we can find solutions for this in the autumn. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal because, as I said, as I said at the beginning, we are part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165204	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the line of rapporteurs, and the next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165212	Thank you for the floor. After all, this translates into the agreement that the government made with the Danish People's Party in the spring, i.e. an agreement for several years on the labour market. With this, we are trying to solve the interplay problems that are, that is, the challenge that we have, with people who are approaching retirement age, not really being able to cope with saving up for retirement. We therefore propose, in concrete terms, that we should create incentives to save late in working life. It will be the case that you can save DKK 45,000 annually. Up to 50,000 kroner. up, after tax, an oldage pension which is not offset against public benefits. Then we also increase the retirement age, so that we push it from 5 years before the age of retirement to 3 years before the age of retirement, and this is to be seen in the context of the fact that the early retirement period also changes from a 5-year-old to a 3-year-old period. So that way it balances in relation to each other. In this way, we also believe that we will deal with some of the challenges that we face, whether saving for pensions will be appropriate, because it should always be able to do so. So we also support this bill, because it must ensure that saving is better and that it is also worth continuing to work. I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that, unfortunately, they could not be here, but that they also support the bill. In fact, I forgot to say that last time we had a first reading, because I should also have said that the Conservatives supported that proposal; I very much regret that. But the Conservatives support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165402	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we do not think that this bill is in any way a good solution to the problem of interaction with pensions, which we agree with the government and others in, of course, actually exist, because the solution presented in this bill is nowhere near being socially balanced. Firstly, it is clear from the comments that, in the long term, the measure could contribute to a slightly later average withdrawal, as it would help fewer people to use pension savings to finance reduced working hours or full retirement already 4-5 years before retirement age. There you can say you tone clean flags. I also find it a little surprising that the Danish People's Party can support this proposal. After all, the Danish People's Party likes to present itself as the champions of the weak or the champions of ordinary people, but it can be seen here that a majority in the Folketing wants to close another opportunity for worn-out people to retire earlier. A worn-out soil and concrete worker can thus look forward to an increase in the retirement age. So if you are a worn-out soil and concrete worker who is fortunate enough to be able to walk from a few years before through your pension scheme with some savings, that possibility will now be reduced, and we are in the opposite direction. Secondly, this is really a gift, another gift, for the most prosperous in society. It goes without saying that you must have a fairly solid income if you are to be able to save up to 50,000 kroner. Up a year. Figures from the Ministry of Finance have also shown that in the 10 per cent who have the lowest incomes, 76 per cent will. could not use the scheme at all. On average, the group will save only DKK 3,200. up a year per year; household. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance expects 81 per cent. in the group of 10%. The highest paid person will take advantage of the scheme, and here, on average, each household will save DKK 27,400. Up a year. So in terms of distribution, this is another gift from blue block to Denmark's most well salvaged. Thirdly, we also need to see this bill in the context of the other elements of the agreement that was made this summer. It contains a large number of attacks on refugees and immigrants in general and their pension situation in particular, for example. reduction of the integration allowance and tightening of residence requirements in relation to receiving full old-age pension, old-age and early retirement. The result will most likely be a group of very poor fractional pensioners. It is not part of the specific legislative proposal, but it is part of the context of the agreement that was reached. So overall, Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. The way in which we want to change pension taxation, if we could get a majority for our policy, is that we want to raise the limit on when you are set off in the pension supplement for the old-age pension, and we want, among other things, to raise the limit on when you are set off in the pension supplement for the old-age pension. to finance it, by looking at removing, reducing the deduction possibilities that you have, in the top tax, i.e. the deductions that you have today when you pay for a pension savings. This will ensure that a large number of people would have access to some pension that they are not today. This will solve much of the problem of interaction, and at the same time it will be a socially balanced financing in which some of the people who have had the most of the last more than 15 years in tax rebates would contribute a little more to the common fund, so that those who have the least, those who are exposed to this problem of interaction that exists, would be met. That is not the solution chosen by the blue block. Blue Block has chosen a socially unbalanced solution, and Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165818	Yeah, there's a question here. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165819	After all, this bill does not hide itself, nor did I in my rapporteur's speech, that this is not the whole solution, but that it is part of the solution. As far as I remember, it has been set at 2.4 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It's just to say that this isn't the whole solution, as Mr. Rune Lund is trying to say it is. What I really wanted to ask is this portion payment age, which is shortened from five to three years. Today you can get a partial pension, so you can supplement your own income with something from your own pension funds if you are worn out. And I just want to ask Enhedslisten whether they think that in principle it is one's own pension that should be eroded if one is worn out in the labour market. Or should you not instead have a flex job or early retirement if you are really worn out? Would it not be more in principle the policy of Enhedslisten that the public should go in to help if one has been worn out and can no longer work, instead of having to hollow out one's own pension savings, which one has to use later in life? As a Dane, I do not think it is sympathetic if we sit here and expect that people should just expect to finance it for their own savings. After all, we have a welfare system in which we help each other with flexible jobs and early retirement and in other ways. Would it not be better if we looked at these things instead of saying that we should finance it ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010165930-2	Yes, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær is right in principle, but we do have the problem that today it is virtually impossible to get, for example. early retirement. Even in cases where people can prove that they have a few minutes of working capacity a week, people cannot get early retirement because a majority in this Parliament has adopted some quite horrible deteriorations, for example. for early retirement workers. The same applies to the deterioration in flex jobs. Then we have to say that here we actually have an opportunity for people to retire themselves to a certain extent, an opportunity they have had so far, but when this proposal will be dealt with thirdly, that possibility will be impaired. This is based on existing legislation, for example. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines is an important step in the right direction. I think this is a problem, and I think it is also a problem that the Danish People's Party is going in and supporting such an element. Then it may be that there are other elements that may come later. Let's see what's coming. But in isolation you go in here and make a deterioration for a certain type of person it could, for example. be a worn-out soil and concrete worker and that is a problem. I would also like the Danish People's Party to acknowledge that, in isolation, something has been done that is a deterioration for a group of people and that we could have that recognition today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170056	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170057	The interesting thing in the answer, with which I agree, is that the problem lies in a completely different place from that bill here, and it is, of course, that it has made it so difficult to get a flexible job and to get an early retirement pension that people have to take off their own pension. That is what is quite unreasonable. Would it not be better if we looked at the rules together so that we could get a flexible job or some kind of spare job or be further educated or retrained so that we could take another job? That is what must be done, I suppose, and that is the big problem for people who are worn out and who may not be able to cope with the last few years on the labour market, in relation to the fact that people now have to pay out of their own pockets in order to be able to go down in time. I think that, in a good, solidarity society, we are helping those who are worn out instead of using their own pension to hollow it out early and thus not having it when they become pensioners. I also heard that the Enhedslisten said that the problem is quite different. Was it not essential, then, that we raised this issue and discussed it instead of talking about the fact that this is what is unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170153	Yes, that is true, but when we find ourselves in a situation where unfortunately there has not been a majority in the Folketing in order to take a fundamental stand against the deterioration of, for example, the situation in the Federal Republic of Germany. early retirement and flexible jobs that have been carried out in this Things, then it is wrong to go in to make a decrease in the opportunity for some people who actually have an opportunity to self-retirement today. I don't see how that can be explained. We would very much like to see a fundamental fight against the deterioration that has occurred in the area of early retirement, but should we not then make the improvements and roll back the deterioration before we start adopting further obstacles to people, like those who can maneuver in the serious deterioration that has occurred in recent years? I would think that was a more correct order and a better way of doing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170254	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, the government wants to target age savings. The background, as you know, is that people with small or no pension savings can experience that, overall, tax and set-off make you financially penalised for saving up to your own old age. This is, of course, a huge problem and I must stress that this proposal is not the only solution to this problem. Age saving allows you to save a little without set-off. On the other hand, the benefits of deferred taxation cannot be gained, as there is no deduction for an old-age savings deposit. This may be a very good opportunity for those who are currently in a mess in the system, but, as I said, it does not solve everything. It is worth noting that the consideration that it pays to save up to own old age and the desire to create good conditions for older people without savings is not easy to reconcile. It is extremely expensive to radically change the set-off, but this proposal must also be seen in the context of job reform 2, where other proposals are given on how to solve the interplay problem. This proposal gives a slightly better opportunity for a group that would otherwise have difficulty saving, and we can of course support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170427	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170435	Thank you. All day today we have been very open to all the legislative proposals that have actually been put forward, both in the field of business and in the field of taxation. I've been doing a little calculations on whether this is going to work, that is to say we're trying to get ourselves into the game so that this bill is something we can have to grow in our garden, and I just can't see that. I think that among other things... Jesper Petersen's rapporteur's speech was very significant: it is the wrong solution that is being presented to an analysis that we all seem to share in here, that is to say that there is a problem of interaction. I am primarily aware that the amount of income needed to make a contribution of DKK 50,000. in the last period of one's working life, hits awkwardly, compared to what we would like to support. So we have neither expectations of being able to support it nor really to offer prospects for negotiation that can make it something that the alternative thinks is a good idea. But it may happen that something comes up. But I certainly need to see the other elements, as they say from among others. The side of the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, which we can expect will also support a solution to the problem of interaction. There may be something in a job reform, yes, but we cannot say yes in isolation to this without looking at massively many of the other flowers that have to be in the bouquet. 'Cause this is gonna fix things the way we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170601	There's a question. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170603	Thank you. Sir. René Gade said that this was not the right solution to the problem of interaction, which I understood the alternative also exists. Then I just want to hear the alternative, what the right solution is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170617-2	I was just about to include in my speech that I would then go home and that my task, when I would not enter into the negotiations here at all, would have to be to say that then the alternative has to come up with our idea of what the solution is. I was just about to say it, but then I wondered if we were actually out to present something like that. And since I don't remember, I can just say that I can't present it on a stand-by basis. But I'm a little unsure if I've been out with elements of a solution. So let me say that it is my homework to make the alternative's offer for a solution... maybe not exactly in this area of the rapporteur, but it will come somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170649	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170657	The government and the Danish People's Party have made an excellent agreement on pensions. In the Radical Left we do not understand why the government has not negotiated widely in the Folketing and made a broad agreement. Otherwise, when it comes to citizens' pensions, it should be preferable to have broad agreements so that they hold over a choice. The agreement partly solves the so-called interplay problem, which means that it is not worth saving up for pension in the last few years of your working life. In addition, the agreement leads to more years of work, and it provides money in the economy, such as in the United Kingdom. can spend on children and young people and their education. Radical Left is in favour of the bill and the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010170751	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the parties and rapporteurs who have welcomed the proposal for the debate that has taken place here today. The government's and, by the way, my own basic view is that it should pay off to work, but it is very important that it should pay off to save up for a satisfactory retirement pension • the so-called third age. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today, and the government recognises this. For many people today it is not worth saving up in a deductible pension scheme because pension payments lead to an increase in public benefits after retirement age. Fortunately, there are many who do it anyway, although it is not worthwhile, but in principle it is a problem that it is so and that is not fair. The pension industry has been demanding a solution for a long time. The government has taken that on board. And I would like to take this opportunity to sign and thank the Danish People's Party for helping to take responsibility for the solution of such a major problem. I would also like to thank the parties who have expressed their support for this proposal in this debate, the last of which is the Radical Left. To the critical voices I would say that the government, with this proposal and proposal for job reform 2, has presented a coherent solution that tackles a significant part of the problem of interaction, but we would of course like to discuss the proposal we have made. The bill is one part and it is an agreement behind it. However, part two, which has to deal with the problem of interaction, is the tax reform with job reform 2 presented by the government. I would also like to stress that there are no easy solutions. If they're easy, they're very expensive. You can't, for example. simply refrain from taking into account taxable pension payments in the event of the phasing-out of public services. It will remove the targeting of, among other things. the pension allowance and the housing allowance for pensioners who have the least, and this would also have a huge negative impact on public finances. Nor can existing pension savings be freely transferred to old age pensions to avoid affecting the conditions of partial retirement; this will also significantly weaken public finances. Of course, public finances are not the most important thing in this world, and that is not the most important thing for me either, but there has to be some balance between revenue and expenditure. That is why we must not fall into the trap of these proposals, which create a great deal less revenue in the form of money that we do not have. For the time being, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place today and, of course, I am answering the questions that have been raised and will be raised in committee on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171046	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Hey, just at the last minute, it's sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171054	Now that I myself did not have the answer on the platform just now, I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation a few specific questions: how does the Minister of Taxation actually view this distribution in relation to who it is that is being taken into account? One of the things we have stumbled upon is that it is precisely those with relatively high incomes who seem to be benefiting from this scheme. But I do not really hear that this was what was intended, that is, that it should necessarily be precise. How does the Minister of Taxation feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171118	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171118-2	In other words, the problem of interaction is not a problem for those with low incomes, understood in the sense that for them the problem is not that it is not worth saving; there is the problem that they earn too little, typically because they are outside the labour market. They will find themselves in a situation where they receive a retirement pension and supplementary and other benefits. So it is not for the low-income group that there is an interplay problem that is for another income group. Therefore, if we are to solve the problem of interaction, it will be the group for which it is then resolved, and that is what the government wants. After all, many people are in such an intermediate income group that it is not worth saving for today. Fortunately, many of them do, and we must thank them for that, but at some point they may realise through the agreements they are part of, that it is not worth saving as much for pensions as it is included in the agreement, and then you will be able to see agreements where less is saved up for pensions because it is not worthwhile and where more is paid out. It may benefit society in the short term, but it creates a big hole in the box in the longer term. It is just that the problem is in a certain income range, and that is also why it is they who will be favoured by the rules proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171254	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171256	Nor is it because it was supposed to be the least well-off or those with the lowest incomes, who suddenly had to benefit from this... it wasn't what I was after. It was simply to hear the tax minister's indexing of who it is, this is actually addressed to, because it is there that seems to be a conflict slash misunderstanding in this Chamber, in other words in terms of whether we help the right ones. It may be a political choice, but I would like to hear from the tax minister whether you can approach some group with a level of income that will benefit most from this $50,000 impulse.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171329	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171330	I must be honest in saying that I cannot do that here from the speaking chair of the Folketing. But I can assure you, sir. René Gade, I would like to answer it as a written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171342	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171010171354	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 October 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
