ParlaMint-DK_20170329130011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 171 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Activities and Customs. Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill No. L 172 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Guarantee Fund for Non-life Insurance Companies and the Law on Insurance mediation. in the marketing and sale of non-life insurance contracts). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 174 (Proposal for a law amending the law on repatriation and the law on aliens. Bill No. L 175 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish Training for Adult Aliens and Others) and various other laws. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. L 176 (Proposal for a Law on the Trial of Personalised Citizens' Budget for Socially Deprived Citizens), Bill No. L 177 (Proposal for a law amending the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field. Bill No. L 178 (Proposal for a Law on the Economic Situation of Marriage) and Bill No. L 179 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the conclusion and dissolution of marriage, the law on the change of spouse, etc.) and various other laws. Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 180 (Proposal for a law amending the law on electricity supply, the law on the promotion of renewable energy, the law on natural gas supply and the law on the organisation and economic conditions of the water sector. Minister for Education and Research (Søren Pind): Bill no. L 181 (Proposal for a Law amending the University Act, Law on Higher Education Professional Colleges, Law on Professional Academys of Higher Education and various other laws. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 182 (Proposal for a law amending the law on carbon dioxide tax for certain energy products, the law on equations, the VAT law, the law on registration fees, the Customs Code and various other laws. Bill No. L 183 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Conduct and various other laws. Karsten Hønge (SF) and Kim Christiansen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on combating social dumping in the transport sector). Rune Lund (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cancellation of planned savings in SKAT). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Josephine Fock (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increasing development aid in 2017). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130305	The first question is to the Minister of Justice by Claus Kvist Hansen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130314	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130317	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is a satisfactory legal situation for citizens that it seems almost impossible to dispose of a copy of the Koran without guilty of blasphemy and risk persecution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130333	Thank you for the question. Allow me to assume that the question has been raised in the light of the recent indictment by the Attorney General for violating the blasphemy clause against a person who had posted a video on Facebook where the Koran is burned off. In my opinion, this is an entirely unnecessary and immensely foolish act. At the same time, however, I would also like to say that I fully understand the interest in the blasphemy clause. This is a provision that is often the subject of debate, and so it must be. As I have said, indictments have been made in the specific case, and now we have to see what the court is assessing. And the government's point of view is, of course, that the law applies until otherwise adopted. In relation to the specific question, I can inform you that disposing of a copy of the Koran or the Bible, for example, does not in itself constitute a violation of Article 140 of the Penal Code on blasphemy. It's about the way you do it. In order to violate the blasphemy clause, there must be a gross element of mockery or insult, and this must be done in public. So it is by no means almost impossible to dispose of a copy of the Koran or the Bible, on the contrary, it is very easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130446	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130448	Thank you for that and thank you for a relatively clear reply from the Minister of Justice. On the one hand, the answer is clear. On the other hand, it leaves the citizen in a certain state of confusion. On the one hand, there is an act which, at least for the time being, leads to criminal prosecution, namely burning a Koran on a garden barbecue, which seems to have been done and looking it up on Facebook. But on the other hand, it is legal to burn off the same Koran if you do it in the stove one day when no one sees it at home. These are two completely identical actions with perhaps exactly the same purpose. Yet one of the things I'm about to say is mockery, sport and ridicule, but that's not the punishment, while the other, according to the Minister of Justice, is perfectly legal. Isn't that unsatisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130542	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130543	There is one thing about the blasphemy clause; that is another discussion which is not the issue here. I think if you burn off a Koran on your garden grill and film it and post it, it's because you want to dispose of it. Then I think it is because you want to point out that it is being disposed of. There is nothing to prevent you from throwing Korans and Bibles in the garbage bin, in the recycling site, in the wood stove, in the garden grill, wherever you can almost think of it. This must not be allowed to happen as part of a publication or almost a public gathering.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130624	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130625	Okay. We're gonna pull the boundaries together a little bit. Well, is it that it gets posted on Facebook and YouTube, that's what matters? Or what would happen if you had a closed garden party now I speak in completely theoretical terms, because of course that is not something that the minister or I could come up with and do the same burning? Is it legal, while the other remains illegal? Is that how the Minister should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130652	Well, that's the way that's crucial. There must be a gross element of ridicule or insult, and it must be done publicly. I shall not be able to say whether the courts will think that a closed garden party where Korans are burned is a public event. But it counts as an element in the assessment of where the limit goes. To be honest, I would like to say that I think this is a very thoughtful situation. If you want to burn Bibles, Korans, or whatever, and film it, I don't think it's because you have to get rid of a book. Everyone has to be able to clean up their bookshelf and drive at the recycling site or throw waste away, but I think that if you do this, it is enough because you want to use it in a political context. Then you can think it's stupid or not, but I think people can handle it. They know that. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130740	Okay. This means that the act of burning a Koran, for example, is legal if it is just done properly. But there is a sudden risk of prosecution, what should we say, because of the thought that lies behind it. So it's a kind of thought crime, you might as well call it. Does it not seem a little strange to the Minister for Justice that the same acts are not punishable, but that the intention behind them is punishable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130808	The blasphemy clause of the Penal Code is about public expression of opinion, which, because of the manner in which it is expressed, can be described as abusive or insulting. Well, private action falls outside of this. It has nothing to do with mind control. You have to get rid of all the Bibles and Korans you want in almost every possible way. I just don't want this to happen as a part of ridicule or insult. That means that if you stand with your camera and make a video of burning off a Koran, you probably won't do it because you want to get rid of the Koran. Then you do it safely because you want to get rid of a political message. I guess so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130848	Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130901	Thank you. Will the government take the initiative to tighten up the penalties for negligent road deaths?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329130911	Reckless road killing is deeply tragic. It hits randomly, it hits hard and is definitely traumatizing for the relatives who quite unexpectedly and unnecessarily lose their loved ones. We must be aware that a negligent road killing can also cover up cases where minor errors by the driver suddenly have very serious consequences, for example. That a pedestrian is driven down. It is, by its very nature, deeply tragic. We must therefore bear in mind that there can be many victims in these cases. What is at the heart, of course, is the killed person and his relatives, but where the road killing is the result of a minor mistake, the reality is that the event is also deeply traumatizing for the driver. It is section 241 of the Penal Code on manslaughter, which is the provision we are talking about here. Today, the penalty for negligent manslaughter is in prison for up to 4 months or, in particularly aggravating circumstances, for up to 8 years. When we look at the level of punishment for negligent manslaughter in connection with e.g. Crazy driving, drunk driving, drug driving, it is provided that the penalty is initially set at prison for 16-18 months. The penalty can then be increased if there are aggravating circumstances, for example: that the person concerned has been punished in the past for drinking or particularly ruthless driving. I therefore believe that we have the penalties and the levels of punishment that we should have at this time, but this will always be the subject of debate. It will always be something you want to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131049	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131050	The Minister is right, especially in his first part of the answer, that these are very tragic cases: there are typically many victims involved. There has been no desire to harm others. On the other hand, in some cases there have been sloppy or negligence, which has led to accidents where people have died and where people are left. If you look at a series of cases here in recent years, it is also my impression that some very, very low penalties are being given to the person responsible for the error. That is why I am choosing to raise this matter with the Minister for Justice, because I think it is essential that we check whether we should have that level of punishment raised and whether something should be done about it. I'm actually completely open to the fact that there's this distinction between how grossly negligent it is. If so, there is already a relatively high penalty of 8 years. But I also think that we just have to decide that there is a series of cases where very low sentences have been given and where there is also something other than prison. You could also look at whether there was an opportunity to take the driver's certificate from the person who had done so, so you made sure that it didn't happen again at least not with the same person. So there is a wide range of areas where action can be taken, and I think that is very important for us to deal with. Now the minister is not going to do anything about the punishments... that I must live with is government policy... but are you going to take action in other areas? Will you look at options other than pure prison sentences?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131225	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131226	I would like to start by saying that I actually think that a penalty that can go up to eight years is something, after all. I know these are serious cases that need to be dealt with, but I actually think that is something that can be dealt with. Then a number of measures can certainly be taken. You can also be sentenced to your driving licence in the trial. I'm a little unclear on where it is that we need to put in extra. Actually, I think that's a little difficult. There may then be a number of measures in the field of road traffic that can be done, and I must say that we have a minister for the area to which I must refer, because all the initiatives that may be in this context belong to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131312	So let me ask you another way: will the Minister facilitate such a meeting with the Minister's colleague on the road with the Danish People's Party, where we can look through this grey area? It is therefore our clear view that there is a problem here, and we can solve it either in one way or in another. I think the best thing would be if, together with the government, we went through the problem and found out if there was anything that could be touched and if we might have a common interest in getting something done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131342	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131343	As I also think the questioner knows, I am always happy to meet with the Danish People's Party, and if I am also going to have some sort of facilitator role, I would like to do so if we are going to be more ministers. Of course I would like to discuss this here, but my immediate reaction to the oral question, whether there should be increased penalties, is that I have a bit of difficulty in seeing where it is that we have to take action with the penalty framework that actually goes from four months up to eight years. It probably also requires that this is one of the things the Criminal Code Commission is going to look at, and I think it is going to do so, of course. But, of course, I'd like to have a meeting about whether there are any grey areas here we can look at. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131422	I think it's really wise for us to go over that. I also think it might be possible to look at the cases in which this has been dealt with. I really believe that there is a grey area that the government does not quite see, and I think it would be very wise for us to get through some of them and, as politicians, to decide whether it is right and right and whether we think something should be different. So I would actually like to call on the government both to go through some of the matters that are just from the past few years and to make a purely political decision as to whether or not it is acceptable. Then we can take that meeting. I think we should do that, preferably before the summer break, so that we can react to some of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131505	Now, of course, I find it extremely difficult to imagine that there are grey areas that the government has not seen. But should that happen, I think we should get them to the surface. Of course, I'd be happy to have such a meeting. For it is clear that we only have a common interest in it. If there are things that are crooked or we have not been properly clarified and that we may be able to get them clarified in a different way, I think we should certainly do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131533	Thank you. There is a new question for the Minister of Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131540	There is time to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131542	Will the government revise the collection law in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131547	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131548	Thank you. The new collection law entered into force on 1 June 2014. In the past, the collection area was administered by the individual police circles, and one of the purposes of making a new collection law was to bring together the administration of the collection area somewhere. Therefore, the new collection law established an independent board, the Collection Board. The Collection Board, which supervises collections in accordance with the law, has a broad overview of where the Collection Act works in practice. This summer the Collection Act has been in force for 3 years, and the Collection Board has announced that it will carry out an overall evaluation of the Collection Act. The jury expects the evaluation to be sent to the Ministry of Justice immediately after the summer break. I look forward to receiving the evaluation of the Collection Board and, when it is available, I think it would be quite natural for us to decide whether there is a need to amend the Collection Act and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131654	When I choose to take this matter up with the government, it's because the industry organization that covers the collecting societies thinks there are big gaps in this law. There are, among other things: areas where there is no degree of transparency in relation to the collections carried out. And that means that there have been a number of cases where very dubious organisations have collected money from people who, in the best sense, have wanted to sponsor good initiatives or something that has sounded at least on paper as if it were very sensible. And then it turns out that the money has certainly not ended up where the person who sponsored it wanted them to end up. Rather, they have been used on all sorts of other things. This is, of course, a problem, because if the Danes' confidence in this kind of organization or in this way of supporting good purposes crumbles, it will hurt a great many organizations that have the best intentions and collect money for the Danes for every good purpose in the world. That's why I think it's a problem that there seems to be a gap in these rules. Then, if you follow the press, you can find out that there is also a majority in the Folketing who think this is a problem. Among other things: The Social Democratic Party, the Alternative, Enhedslisten, SF and my own party, the Danish People's Party, have also expressed our scepticism about the way the rules are knitted together today. Some time ago there was also a journalist who called my good colleague from the Left Legal Rapporteur Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, who says that it would be like kicking in an open door, because there seems to be a huge hole, as he says, which gives rise to revision of the law. So I would actually just like to ask: now the Minister is saying that there will be an evaluation this summer, which the government will be sent immediately after the summer break. When will we be able to expect negotiations on this? Because at first sight it sounds as if nothing like this is going to happen right now, but that is something we have to deal with in a year's time. So when and how?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131853	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131854	When exactly do I think it's a really good question. It is the case that we have both the challenge mentioned here by the questioner and, of course, the challenge of whether legal persons should really be included in the law. In fact, I think that is very relevant to discuss. It is not because I disagree with the fact that there are some cases here that we need to deal with. Actually, I'd love to. I just think that instead of saying that we are just going to go down and make a change of law on something, it would be great if we could look at the whole law and change it at once, which had to be changed. And as soon as I have the report, I would like to get both a government process and a debate going, so that we can do something about this once the summer has come to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131942	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329131943	There is also something that suggests that there are at least people telling me that some of these collections also go for shady purposes. It could be sponsoring certain environments in this community, which I can't imagine either... that the minister thinks it's very well being sponsored... it might be something that's criminal. It may be the gang environment, it may be people who are radicalised and want to travel to other countries, and therefore I simply think that in this area there is a hole in the boat, and there is a question of how long we should wait to be allowed to patch that hole. So I really wanted to hear the Minister: is it not a good idea to speed up that evaluation and to tell the Collection Board that we need it to be set in motion more quickly, so that we may be able to deal with new rules in the coming session?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132027	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132028	Yes, I also believe that we should be able to deal with new rules in the coming session, so that we should look at it. I just can't stand here today saying so much about it, because I just don't know how far they are with this. Yes, I can easily stand and say it, but the words I say should also have a little weight so that I can keep what I promise afterwards. I think we should get this done, and then I think that instead of starting to correct something in legislation, we can start patching up the boat and maybe it should be re-painted. Now I'm not so much into boat terminologies, but we need to secure the boat completely so that there aren't still holes that the water can drift out of. In fact, I think we should try to do that. I do not see that we have any conflicting interests here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132113	The last question and answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132114	After all, I have raised one issue with regard to the collection law, and I would just like to hear the Minister at the end: is there something that the government sees as other problems that it would like to change in the same sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132129	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132130	I think we need to get a look at this about whether legal persons should be subject to the law here. In fact, I think that is an important discussion, and then we must go out and look at what is actually permitted. I think it is very reasonable that we have put it together in one place instead of being in the individual police circles, so that we have a focus on it in a common place. And let us, as I said, when it has been summer and we come back fresh and filled with energy and there is a report, quickly get something done about it, so we get the changes in the law that need to be made if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132204	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Rune Lund, and there's an enquirer on later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132214	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132218	The question is: does the Minister have a position on the financial consequences of the new agreement on the North Sea leading to a significant tax rebate on investments in the Swan field, and has this, indirectly or directly, been involved in the negotiations on the new agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132247	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132248	I welcome the interest in the new North Sea Agreement, which is an excellent agreement that will ensure that we have a full reconstruction of the Tyra field. This means that we have the opportunity to get all the oil and gas resources out of the North Sea that will enable us to activate them. Whatever green transition Denmark may undergo, we know that there is a need for oil and gas in Europe in the coming years, and that is why it is better for the Danish economy that we get our common resources up than that it is other and perhaps more unstable countries that are suppliers to it. When specific questions are asked about the Swan field, it is the case that there are currently no right-holders for the area where the field is located. This means that there are no known investment plans for the field. As there is no rightholder and we do not know the investment plans, it is therefore not some calculations that we can take into account in a specific agreement. However, it is the case that the Danish Energy Agency expects the Swan presence to be included in the upcoming eighth bidding round for hydrocarbon permits. Depending on the interest in the eighth round of invitations to tender and the outcome of it, there will be a rightholder for the Swan field. The agreement is then concluded in such a way that, in order for it to benefit from the special deduction that is part of the North Sea Agreement, it must be in production before the end of 2026. With the time it takes to build up an oil or gas field, it is not likely that the Swan presence will be in production by the end of 2026.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132418	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132420	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. The question is a little interesting because the agreement that has just been concluded and which is supposed to cost just under 5 billion. kr. until 2025, will involve a tax discount to the Danish Underground Consortium, where A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S is also part of it, at 30 per cent. And I think it should also have a comment on the way, because we are talking about 5 billion. kr. kr. That's nine years old. 5 billion kr. up to 9 years is just over 500 million. kr. a year. If we talk A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S' share, A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S after all 30%. by DUC, and 30% by DUC. of the 5 billion. kr. ed One-and-a-half billion. kr., again spread over the 9 years. So we're talking about a tax rebate that's about. 200 million kr. a year. One has to ask oneself: is this really the tax rebate that has been necessary in order for gas extraction to continue? At the same time, we see that the tax payment that exists is based on a very favourable agreement from 2003 based on a price for a barrel of oil of $22 rising to $36 in 2042 but where we have seen that the oil price has been much higher since then, and this also means that the companies in the Danish Underground Consortium have earned many more billions after tax than was originally provided. We can also see that the tax is lower than in Norway. But to return to the question, I would like to say that we have a new tax rebate that comes on top of taxes that are already very low. And in relation to the Swan field, it may not be relevant because it may be difficult to get production going, but if there is an increase in the use of the tax credit in relation to what is provided for in the agreement, who will pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132622	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132623	See, first of all, it is a tax rebate of 3.5 billion. kr., and it is an agreement that runs until 2037. That is to say, it is 3.5 billion. kr. over 20 years and with an average of 175 million. kr. a year. It's just to get the facts right. Then it is the case that the state is the biggest recipient if oil and natural gas come out of the North Sea, because we get more than 70%. of the surplus with oil and gas production. So the more profit there is, the better it is for the economy, and the better it is for the Treasury. In relation to the question of what happens if there are other investments, I would say that I actually hope that there will be other investments. I hope that some of the rights holders who already have rights in the North Sea will choose to use it to invest even more, because if the oil price becomes what Enhedslisten has provided for in the Togfonden DK, the oil companies will pay back every tax dollars they have received at a discount by 2031.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132721	Forecasts of oil prices in the future are something that will always be uncertain. In fact, this also applies to the Train Fund DK, where an agreement has been drawn up which says that if funding cannot be found with funds from the North Sea, funding must be found in other ways. We have undertaken to do so. With this tax rebate, which is now on the table, whether it's 4.9 billion. kr., or whether it is the second figure that the Minister put forward, depends on how the figures are just produced, it will be the case that if there is a further use of deductions, e.g. From the Swan field, there will be an additional cost, and who will finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132809	So there is no difference in what this agreement is about. It is a total tax rebate of 3.5 billion. kr., which is funded, by the fact that we have actually found savings on business support schemes, has actually found dividends from state companies aimed at business. There is no need to muddle the picture with incorrect information, there is only one figure, and the figure is clear in the agreement that has been reached. The fact is that we have a desire that as many companies as possible should choose to invest in the North Sea, because as a society we have an interest in that. If they do so, and if oil prices are what Enhedslisten has provided in Togfonden DK, all tax rebates will be paid back by the companies themselves, and therefore it is a good and strong agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132852	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132854	Thank you. I mean, the sum of 5 billion. kr. This is reflected in the government's own agreement and also in the financial consequences of the transfer. What we drill a little is, of course, whether this gives a much bigger bill for the Danes than it would otherwise have given. I have heard about the fact that it is business that pays, but state investment funds and their returns are also taxpayers' dollars, for example. is invested in the growth of companies, and the profits that come from it are therefore not business subsidies. It is the Danes' money, and it is therefore taxpayers' money that pays for at least half of this. So what we are asking is: is it the case that there is a much bigger bill when it comes to the matter than the bill for the 5 billion? kr., I say, but 3.5 billion. kr., and it doesn't really matter, that is, a bigger bill than what you've told the Danes? Can we risk it? And what does the Minister estimate is the extent of that extra bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329132953	If you stop the equation before 2042 you can get any number you want, but if you take the total to 2042, it is 3.5 billion. kr., and 2042 are chosen because it is the year in which the exclusive right expires. So the thing is, this is a tax discount of 3.5 billion. kr., for after 2025 some depreciations are beginning to turn the other way around, which means that depreciations have been made, so that the tax payment is higher than otherwise. I have a clear wish with this agreement, and that is that we should strengthen the oil and gas industry in Esbjerg; that we should strengthen the opportunity for us to get as much of society's resources out of the North Sea as possible and put them at risk for our welfare, for our opportunities for a better society, and for a lower tax, and preferably both at the same time. We will be able to do that if we exploit our potential in the North Sea, and that is why we have made this agreement. And I am not worried that other companies will join us because we have made an agreement that is strong enough for it to include more companies. I do not think there are any companies that have the opportunity to get into the order of production which is here to a significant extent, because it is precisely investments that have to be in production by the end of 2026, but they are welcome, the scheme is open to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133108	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133109	I do not think I want to enter into the debate on the sensibleness of this effort on black energy, which we must leave to somewhere else, and we will certainly have ample opportunity to do so. But what I am really asking is: has the government had any calculations, estimates or other in connection with the negotiations on the other, because what is the cost of the areas not covered here, that is, the areas outside the exclusive field, and what can be the overall cost of making these new very favourable tax deductions? That is basically just my question. Is there an amount? And if so, who will pay the bill? Where's the money coming from? Is there a clear agreement on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133157	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133158	This agreement is open for others to come along, and I am, in fact, positive that they can, because it will mean that we will strengthen investment in the North Sea so that we will be able to get more oil and gas, and the more that will be picked up, the more society will serve. Remember what I have said sometimes: we make more than 70%. of the surplus of what comes out of the North Sea. It is there, through taxes, corporate taxes and everything else and our ownership interest in the North Sea Fund, that there is every interest in us doing so. However, we do not have any concrete knowledge that will allow us to calculate any concrete investments that may have been made. And that is why there is no calculation of any additional investment, because we do not know what to count on. We have made the model so that it is open and I have an interest in several companies wanting to invest in the Danish part of the North Sea, because it will help to strengthen our opportunities for a good welfare society with a low tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133256	So it must be understood that discussions about the Swan Field have neither directly nor indirectly, nor in any other way, been part of the negotiations that have taken place between the Government and the Danish Underground Consortium. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? That is one question. The second is about the bill. I understand the Minister, and it is clear from what is being said that the bill for this can get much bigger, and then my question is just: who will then have to pay for this tax rebate that comes on top of taxes that are already very low?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133334	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133335	I have not personally sat at any meeting or participated in any telephone conversation that has taken place between some representatives of the state and some representatives of the Danish Underground Consortium, so whether the Swan field has been mentioned in a bedding or anything else, I cannot guarantee. But I can say that this has not been part of what we have been negotiating, because what we have been negotiating has been the current exclusive right in which the Swan field is outside. So we haven't negotiated with DUC about a field that they don't have a license for it gives itself. If there are other companies who choose to take advantage of the scheme here, then I would say that it will provide a social plus, including a fiscal plus, because the more that is being produced, the more that is being pumped up, the greater the part that the state receives when it receives more than 70%. of the North Sea surplus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133423	Thank you. There are new questions to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133429	The question is this: does the Minister believe that the possibility of using tax credits in the fields outside the reserved area should be changed and has such considerations been included in the negotiations on the new North Sea Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133444	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133445	See, as we have been around sometimes, the agreement made by a broad circle of parties in the Folketing means that we strengthen the possibility of the oil and gas deposits that are in the North Sea coming up to the community's benefit. This also means that the very large cluster of industrial jobs in the Esbjerg area around the oil and gas industry, and the large exports that we have received from our knowledge of how to extract oil from a very difficult subsoil, as there is in the Danish part of the North Sea, are strengthened by the agreement here. So I welcome the agreement; I think it is really, really good, and I am not thinking, as the question says, about changing the tax credits for the fields outside the reserved area. What we have been doing here is a general change... an opt-in scheme, so to speak... for a limited period of time. If you want to make investments in production in the North Sea, you can, for a period of time, receive an increased deduction and an increase in depreciation. An increase in depreciation is, of course, matched by the fact that depreciation values are lower later on. An increased deduction on the hydrocarbon would make it more attractive. But again, if it is attractive for some to invest further than what has already been invested, in order to produce something more, then the biggest winner compared to it will be the Treasury. It will be society that gets over 70%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It was said in this question that we should share the green transition. We don't have to do that for me. In other words, I am very much in favour of a green transition in Denmark, but no matter how quickly one might wish for a green transition in Denmark, it will be the case that in Europe there will be a demand for both oil and natural gas for a number of years to come, and I even think one could say: for a long time after the current exclusive right expires in 2042. If we do not use all the oil and gas produced in Denmark ourselves, then it gives society an export income because we can sell it to other countries and make ourselves less dependent on some of the unstable regimes that are currently making too good a profit from delivering to a Europe that needs energy from outside. So we can do something that makes sense both geopolitically and economically without it changing anything environmentally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133706	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133707	I would like to start by questioning the whole premise of the reply given by the Minister, namely that oil and gas extraction could only continue if this tax rebate was granted. It is interesting that a tax rebate is granted, and let us then start with the 31⁄2 billion. kr., which the Minister himself has used in today's debate. I mean, I was at the general meeting in A. P. Møller - Mærsk yesterday, and there I could see that the group pays dividends to its shareholders of 3.1 billion. kr. Just for 2016. I think that is interesting because we are dealing with an apparently very needy company which needs taxpayers to come and pay a new rebate to pull oil out of the North Sea when, at the same time, within a week, we send a return of 3.1 billion to shareholders. kr. I think that shows the absurdity of the tax agreement which has just been concluded and which provides a tax rebate on top of taxes that are too low. We know that taxation is lower in Norway. We know that the prerequisite for the agreement reached in 2003 is a price for a barrel of oil which is significantly lower than what it has proved to be. We know that the Environmental Economic Council, which presented their annual report on 28 February, says that the tax is too low, that the tax should be increased and that it does not make sense to give state aid to pull up black energy when you could spend the money on something else, for example. promotion of green energy, renewable energy. So the assumption that this could not be done without a tax rebate simply does not last one metre. In relation to the specific question, the interest in the Hermit field is relevant in this context, because DONG has had some failed investments out in that field. There is currently a tax credit of over 20 billion. kr., and that's what I'm asking you about here. But I am delighted to hear that the Minister has no plans to change tax legislation so that such a tax credit could be used by, for example, a tax credit. A. P. Møller - Mærsk in connection with oil extraction activities in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329133915	To start from behind: No, we have absolutely no plans to change that. On the contrary, we have agreed and just examined that the rules are such that the deduction for the Hermit field cannot be sold to other companies and recovered there. Just a few things about the deal itself. It is not the case that I have ever claimed that if we did not make that agreement, there would be no reconstruction of the Tyra field. The difference is whether the Tyra field will be fully rebuilt or partially rebuilt. What does that mean? Yeah, that means a difference of 26 billion. kr. in government revenue by a full expansion in relation to a partial expansion. And the 26 billion. kr. I have an interest in ensuring that we get as much as possible into the Danish state, while at the same time supporting a cluster of companies in Esbjerg, which creates a lot of jobs throughout the South-West Jutland area. It is not the case that A. P. Møller - Mærsk is in need. I don't think they've ever heard me or anyone else from the government say that. It's a question of how to create a tax model that makes them interested in doing the full reconstruction not only Mærsk, but also Shell and Chevron, which are the two other major foreign shareholders in the Danish Underground Consortium.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134027	Thank you! The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134028	However, it is absurd when we have a tax rebate which, if we divide it over each year, amounts to a relatively small amount of millions when we compare it with just the 3,1 billion dividend payment. kr., as happened at A. P. Møller - Mærsk's general meeting yesterday. Well, Færsk's share of this, if we're based on the 5 billion. kr., will then be 11⁄2 billion. kr. over 9 years, which is just about and slightly less than 200 million. kr. a year. In this context, it has to be said that this tax rebate is incredibly small compared to a return of 3.1 billion. kr. The Minister must be able to see that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134111	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134111-2	I can promise you that from now on I will quote Mr. Rune Lund said that the tax rebate amounts to a relatively small amount of millions. I am delighted that we can agree on this, because when you look at the importance of the social interests of a full reconstruction of the Tyra field, you have to say that it is actually a relatively small amount of money. What is important is that we have an agreement that ensures full reconstruction of the Tyra field; we have an agreement that ensures that we have the opportunity to retrieve the deposits that we know are in the Danish part of the North Sea for the benefit of the community. The alternative to this would be to cut down on our values, our expected income, to cut back on what we have the opportunity to create from jobs in Denmark, and we would be very sorry about that. So I am glad that it is a relatively small amount of money that now gives as good an agreement as the one we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134200	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134202	It is good to create jobs, but when you spend 3.5 billion. kr., you could have created some other jobs, for example. by promoting the green transition. It's just to get that space. What can provoke a little, and which I think many Danes may be thinking about, is the fact that for so many years there have been undertaxed activities in the North Sea, that is to say that there has been a tax which, compared to the agreement reached in 2003, has meant that from 2003 until today in the North Sea there has been so much what the economic wise men themselves call supernormal profits. That is why, of course, it is a little strange when one of the companies that has benefited from these very, very favourable tax conditions comes and says: Hey, we cannot afford to maintain our installations out there; there you must come and ask the taxpayers for some more money. I actually think that is quite basically the feeling that many Danes have about this. I thought it sounded like a very clear answer to the question about the Hermit Field, so I just want to ask one more time to be absolutely sure that I understood it correctly: if Mærsk or another company, for example. buys DONG's oil division, they will not be able to use that deduction of the 20 billion. kr.? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134328	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134328-2	We do not change the tax rules - the existing tax rules will also apply in the future. To what is being said, if you believe in Enhedslisten's train fund project, if you believe in the oil price projections on which you built a train fund project, then it must be the case that the companies of which the DUC consists will pay back the tax rebate fully by 2031. It must be that way if you believe in the numbers that you used when you did the train fund project. Because it is the case that when oil prices rise and cross a limit of $75 and $85 respectively. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the figures which you used, and which we are also the basis of the government's financial statement of December, then we will receive a refund from the companies which have received a tax advantage, so that there is a more liquidity advantage than a real tax advantage. It is not the case that there is disagreement about what the oil price will be when it comes to what you have based the train fund and on what we have based our economic statement on. So if we believe in our own figures, it must be the case that the companies pay it all back by 2031 while at the same time getting greater values and more jobs. It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134442	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no direct indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134446	What I was talking about was not the new tax rebates, it was the tax agreement that was made in 2003, which has been extremely lucrative for the oil companies, simply because the price of oil turned out to be far, much higher than provided, and it just means that the return they have received, so what is called the resource framework, has fallen to private rather than more to all of us, as we have done, for example. See it in Norway, where the tax on these oil values is considerably higher. That is why it may seem strange that the companies that have then been allowed to get the really good job of pulling our oil out of the underground have not even been able to save themselves to make the necessary renovation; it is even a company that is known for due diligence. That's just what I'm talking about. But to come back to it with DONG and the fact that the rules in force will not be changed, I cannot just get a clear answer: is it the Minister's view that if A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S acquires DONG's oil business, the current rules will allow it to benefit from this 20 billion reduction. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134549	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134550	Sir. Pelle Dragsted asks so many different things that it can be difficult to answer everything, but Mr. Pelle Dragsted also asked whether the Danes generally think it is okay to spend 3.5 billion. kr. in tax rebates. And there's just what I'm saying... if you believe in sir... Pelle Dragsted and the finance minister's assumptions, on which we agree, will be the case that the oil companies will pay back the short-term tax rebate by 2031. From there it will be a mere surplus business for society that we have got more investment in the North Sea and that we have got more oil deposits and more gas deposits activated. It's great for the industrial cluster we have. In relation to the legal issue, we are not changing anything about the legislation; we are not changing anything about the possibility of deducting any deficit from the Hermit field in other companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134640	Then it's back to the main questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134645	Thank you for the last answer. It means something that we would otherwise ask a question about the fact that the possible deduction, which is located in the Heron field, cannot be transferred to A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S under the applicable legislation. I think that's a good thing to bring home today. Thank you for that answer. In relation to the question of whether it is a small discount or a large discount, it is, after all, preserved, 5 billion. kr. or 3,5 billion kr. is also a lame money money we could have spent on more nurses in hospitals, more educators in kindergarten. But that is precisely an unnecessary discount, which is why it is just absurd that a tax rebate has been granted on taxes that are already too low.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134727	Here you go to the Minister for the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134729	Well, I'd like to quote sir. Rune Lund says it's a relatively small amount of money, and I'm glad we agree that it is. What we should then just remember is that what the state gets out of it is a relatively large amount of billions, i.e. 26 billion. kr., which is the difference between whether you are doing a partial reconstruction as is what the companies had done without an agreement or a full extension that you are doing with the agreement. 26 billion kr. extra in the Treasury in the coming years means a big difference in our ability to build a society where we have good welfare benefits, where we have good offers for citizens, while at the same time having a low tax. I am very pleased about that, and that is why it is a good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134809	Thank you. That was the end of the question. Then there is a new question, and it is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134831	The question is: Does the Minister believe that the development described in Information on 22 March 2017 which reports about a wave of suicide attempts and suicide behaviour among minor children at Danish asylum centres should lead to increased focus on the issue in the form of concrete initiatives or actions at asylum centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134852	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329134853	I would like to start by saying that it is always incredibly tragic when children and young people are trying to commit suicide. This applies regardless of whether they are Danish children and young people or whether they are minors in the asylum system. I therefore believe that we can all agree here in the Folketing that every suicide attempt is of course too much. Having said that, it is also unfortunately a fact that the people who come to Denmark as asylum seekers both suffer from depression, trauma and other mental disorders and also bring these as challenges when they come to Denmark. That is why it is also the case that all asylum seekers who come to Denmark receive medical screening or they are offered it. This is already happening while staying in the reception centre. After all, for good reasons, we cannot force asylum seekers to undergo such medical screening, but if an asylum seeker chooses not to accept the screening during the reception phase, the screening is offered once you have been accommodated in a living centre. In addition, all asylum seekers have access to urgent and necessary healthcare, including psychiatric treatment. It has to be, among other things. help ensure that asylum seekers do not pose a danger to themselves or to others. Finally, it is also the case that newly arrived asylum seekers are psychologically screened by the Red Cross psychologist unit. In fact, we have already met in consultation on this very subject, and if we are to sum it up, it is the case that in the statements that exist, in terms of suicide attempts and also suicide behaviour, as mentioned in the article referred to here, we can see that the number of suicide attempts and suicide behaviours varies quite considerably from quarter to quarter, but also from year to year. It can therefore be very difficult to talk about an unambiguous trend. But I would like to stress that, for me, it is absolutely essential that any suicide attempt is of course too much and that we can therefore all agree, I think, that we have an interest in doing what we can in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135130	Here you go, Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135133	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's reply. It is true that we have had a conciliation on this back in December, and it was mainly the first quarter of 2016, we had the figures from, and since then it has only gone one way, and unfortunately it is the wrong way. There has been an increase, 33 suicide attempts and suicide behaviour among asylum seekers. As the Minister also says, it is 33 too many, I share that opinion. The question then is: what are we going to do from here? Because when I last consulted the Minister, the Minister mentioned that it was, of course, tragic and that it was regrettable that the figures were there, but the Minister also problematized that the number was fluctuating and that the reporting might not be quite so accurate. But there is something going on that is increasing in number, so there is something going wrong, whether it is screening that goes wrong or registration, I do not know, but I can see that there are 33 tragic fates, 15-, 16-, 17-year-old children trying to kill themselves. So I want to hear from the Minister whether, since we last had the consultation on this subject, the Minister has some new tools to reduce this number so that we don't have children who try suicide or have suicidal behaviour in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135258	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135300	I think you have to see it again, given that it can vary a lot from quarter to quarter and from year to year. It is simply a question of who comes here, what those people may bring with them of mental problems. It's not that somebody in the Folketing doesn't take this issue seriously, I think we all do. If I have to say what has been done since the last time, I can say that we are, of course, following this area very closely, but for me it is not really a question of statistics and figures. For me, it is a question of whether the operators in the asylum centres have the right tools, and I think that they have that now, and they are doing an enormous amount of work. We can quickly enter a quarter, for example. are very, very few suicide attempts, and of course I very much hope that we do so and that very, very few are showing this behavior. We all hope so. But it must not be a question of statistics and figures. It must be a question of whether operators have the tools they need and whether they do something when matters arise, and I therefore believe that they have both done so and done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135411	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135411-2	Of course it shouldn't be about numbers, but this is actually about 33 tragic fates. It's kids, 15-, 16-, 17-year-old kids who tried to kill themselves. It takes a lot before you're all the way out there to try to take your own life. So it's about people, and that's also why we have this question. However, I do not hear from the Minister that there are really new steps in the field, even though the figure has increased since we last met in consultation, and I am surprised at that. Does the Minister really not think that further steps need to be taken to reduce this number?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135447	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135448	It is still the case that you are screened, and if you say no to the screening, you get the offer later. It is not the case that one is abandoned in the system, on the contrary, much is being followed up. I would also like to stress that it is not precisely in areas where resources or anything has been cut, quite the contrary, because with the number of young people who are not accompanied, the money is also included. So this isn't a matter of money or resources. I think you simply have to see it in the light of the psychological instability associated with it when you come here and what you can have with mental disorders in your luggage. That is something we must be extremely aware of. I do not think you will find a single member of the Folketing who does not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135535	Here you go, Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135537	I also believe that a great many of our colleagues would be very concerned that 33 children have attempted suicide • by the way, 91 adults have tried the same thing. This is not just a matter of statistics or crowns and ears, which is why it is also important to look at concrete measures at the various centres. It may be that some other tools are needed, and that is what I really miss an answer from the Minister. Will the Minister look into it, possibly make an assessment of what the situation is, whether there are some different areas where the figure for how many children are trying suicide is decreasing, so try to make some efforts where you can get smarter in this area? Frankly, since our consultations in December, I have not gotten any better, and I can only note that the figures are increasing, and it is a huge problem that 33 children attempted suicide last year alone. So does the Minister not have any other tools or perhaps some suggestions as to what we can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135637	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135638	We fully agree that a suicide attempt or behaviour in this direction is too much. That must be the case, and that is the case, and no one here in the Folketing disagrees. But immediately I find it hard to see what we can do more. And again, the numbers are swinging up and down, because it all depends on who comes here, what psychic disorders you must have with. But I can say so much that I will pay close attention to this and if there are any good suggestions as to what it might be that could be done further, we shall have to look at it. It is just not the case that the proposals are queuing. The only thing we agree on is that the figure should not be so high. The number should preferably be 0, and we agree on that. But there is no lack of money, there is no lack of resources for this, I would argue, so it is simply a question of us having to try together to see if we can find new tools. I will at no time reject anything in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135737	Thank you. There is a question for the Minister for Employment by Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135746	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135748	Thank you. Why has the Minister moved the job premium for the long-term unemployed so that the long-term unemployed who came into work in the autumn can no longer, as the Prime Minister promised them back in August, receive a job premium of up to DKK 45,000. tax-free?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135803	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135804	Thank you for the question. It is quite true that the then Left Government with the 2025 plan, which was presented in August 2016, I think it was proposed a job premium scheme with a cut-off date in the autumn. Unfortunately, it was not possible to find a majority for the overall plan of the then government in the autumn and, as the questioner may have noted, there has been a change of government since then, and that is why we have come up with a new proposal where those who were longterm unemployed per year. December 1, 2016, can get a job prize. It is, of course, a proposal that has been adopted here in the Assembly with Socialist votes, and I would like to sign for that. That is why we must also assume that the Social Democrats are aware of what they have voted for. I think it is encouraging if some of the people who were long-term unemployed in the autumn have now entered work. There are very many people who go to work every day without receiving a job prize, and I welcome everyone who gets into employment, whether they are part of the scheme or not. It is good for Denmark, but it is not least good for the individual. The job premium is a good incentive for long-term unemployed people who are stuck in public support and who need an extra carrot to get into employment. There are very many gains for the individual by getting into work both financially, but not least many human. So it was a very good proposal and such a good proposal that it actually meant that there was also a broad majority in favour of the proposal here in the Danish Parliament, even though during the discussion the Social Democracy was a little difficult to understand, in relation to whether one was able to find the necessary funding. But let it not destroy otherwise good cooperation with the Social Democratic Party, which then ended up supporting the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135954	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329135956	We are 100% in favour of this proposal. That is what we said during the debate, and we also found another funding proposal. Now it is the case that the Social Democrats have not been involved in the negotiations, because they were held elsewhere. Then we would have had the opportunity to influence the funding and influence when it would come into force. We didn't. We could simply take the proposal or not. And we will then take it because it is a good proposal. I just have to explain the case. It is true that on 30 August the Prime Minister stood up and said that if the long-term unemployed were to get started from 1 September, a long-term unemployed person could get a job premium of DKK 45,000. Then you can read in BT that there is a Dennis Larsen who actually got started there, and now he follows the cheat. Because he's just been listening to the PM, he got started in September, and then he can't really get this job prize. And that is why I just have to ask again: why is it that you have not really tried to get it implemented? Why is it that it has not been implemented? Well, it's not really my fault that the Minister is here today, because I wanted to call the Prime Minister down here. So he doesn't want to have a talk with me about it and refers to the Resort Minister. And so it must be. Because it was the Prime Minister who sat at the table during the negotiations at Marienborg, so he should really answer it. But fair enough, he's throwing it down to his prime minister. But why is it that it was not implemented? Why didn't the government get it through? Why was it so important? And can't you understand that Dennis Larsen feels cheated somewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140136	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140137	The many thousands of viewers who had to sit and follow this round of questions in the Parliamentary Assembly owe it to be said that what the Prime Minister has done by asking the Minister for Employment and that, at the moment, I am answering the question, is completely in line with the practice of the Folketing. For that matter, the former Prime Minister, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, did exactly the same when she was Prime Minister. So that makes perfect sense. There's only one thing to say to Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen states that no majority could be obtained for the 2025 plan presented by the government. That is why we were not able to achieve what we had proposed. However, I welcome the fact that we have now gathered a majority, and I also welcome the fact that a job premium has now been introduced. And I am particularly pleased that Dennis Larsen has got a job. Well, that's good for Dennis Larsen, and I think so too. Leif Lahn Jensen should be pleased about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140229	I welcome it every time someone gets to work, and that is why we voted in favour of this. We would therefore like to see all the millions set aside really being spent, because if we spend all the money, it would just mean that a lot of people are going to work, and we can only think that that is really good. I also understand that there are some who feel a little cheated. When a prime minister, who sort of sits at the top of the table, when a new government is to be made, goes up and says that, you also expect somewhere to be able to count on it. I have to ask how much was done in the government to get this through? What knots were there, and what was the reason why the new government did not get it through after the election of the people according to Anders Samuelsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140311	First of all, you have to say that, and perhaps I think Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is aware that there has not been a parliamentary election. There has been what is called a transformation of government. And to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's general information can be said that there must be 90 mandates to get something adopted in the Folketing. I'm well aware of that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen knows all about it. After all, we had to note that there were no 90 mandates for the government's 2025 plan. I also noted that the Social Democratic Party did not support the government's 2025 plan either, and that is why it came here, among other things. a transformation of government which led the government to put forward this bill, which I am both pleased and proud of, and which I also welcome the fact that, after very hard pressure, the Social Democratic Party chose to support. And that is something to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140352	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140353	So what I hear the Minister say is: Yes, the then government • i.e. The Prime Minister, at Marienborg, presented this with the idea that a job premium would apply from 1 September. But the government partners, the Liberal Alliance or the Conservatives, said no. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140413	I think there's something seriously wrong with sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's ears, because I have not spoken at all about what may have happened at Marienborg. I wasn't at Marienborg at all during those negotiations. There was a government basis, a good and solid government basis, which means that we first and foremost make a greater effort to get people into employment and create more growth and development in Denmark, all of which are beneficial to the individual. In this context, I also welcome the fact that we have now adopted a job premium which benefits those who are on passive transfer and who enter the labour market. I'm sorry, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen then chooses not to rejoice, but that is how we are so different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140455	Thank you. That was the end of the question, and there is a new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140506	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the rapporteur Hans Andersen that it was very natural to deprive thousands of the longterm unemployed of their job premium of up to DKK 45,000. tax-free because the government was busy sitting in Marienborg writing a liberal government base with higher retirement age and lower top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140522	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140523	I would like to start by saying that I am not aware of the fact that Mr. Hans Andersen should have said what is being referred to by the questioner. That is why I would first of all like to make a more detailed analysis of Mr Seligman's position. Hans Andersen should have quoted exactly what the questioner says. Having said that, I would like to say that we are reminiscent of the answer given to the previous questions and the answer I gave a short time ago. I am delighted that a job prize has now been introduced. With broad support in the Folketing, the job prize has been successfully completed. This is a very good idea, because it helps to ensure that those on passive transfer income receive an even greater incentive to become part of the working community. In many ways, it is something that the Social Democracy on festive occasions makes great speeches about, but which the Party unfortunately is not always able to deliver. That is why I think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen should be pleased today that the Social Democratic Party also chose to support the job prize. That's really good. We owe it to the Social Democratic Party when there is something to praise the Social Democratic Party for. I'll take every opportunity to do that. And that is why I would also like to say that, although the Social Democrats have been somewhat slow in making their political statements, the Social Democrats have managed to support this proposal. I would like to congratulate you on that and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140644	Thank you. And that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140645	Then I can quote from BT what Hans Andersen says: When we put forward the 2025 plan, we suggested that the deadline should be 1 December. But there was no majority in favour of that plan. There is nothing legal to prevent us from keeping on 1 September, but when the government was transformed and we have not been able to get through with the overall plan, it is very natural that we do so in this way. Then I have to come up with the same question. I know the Minister would like to talk about the fact that this job prize is really good. We are in complete agreement on this. We can keep talking about that. I'm just interested to know why you made that deal. Why didn't they get it through? How much did the Prime Minister fight for what he had promised the voters? How much did he fight when he had to make the new government so that on September 1st he could be cut off so that Dennis Larsen could get his money? Now I hear the minister say he wasn't at Marienborg. It was the PM who did it. At any rate, I know that the President of the Danish Parliament is listening to this. That's why I can pass the signal on. The reason I want the Prime Minister here is because the Prime Minister was at Marienborg when he was going to make a new government. The Minister for Employment was not. That's why only the Prime Minister can explain how much you've been concerned about getting this cut-off date through and how much you're not. I know that the Minister for Employment cannot answer that, but now I have no one else to ask. That is why I ask: how important was it for the Left? How much was done to get this cut-off date through? Or was it more or less indifferent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140825	After all, this Question Time is now developing in a very serious direction. Because now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has just admitted that he has stood and made a very clear misquote by Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Hans Andersen. It is even printed on the questions put to me as Minister for Employment. That is a serious matter. I don't want it coming, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen to the detriment of him, for he has today admitted that what he has quoted is Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Hans Andersen for isn't right. I also feel like I have to say stop, stop. What had to happen at Marienborg is not something I have to explain. I explain that the government has adopted a job prize which the Social Democratic Party reluctantly and after much political pressure chose to support. I think that is wise, because the Social Democrats then choose to live up to what the Social Democrats sometimes say, namely that they are interested in people getting a job. However, on the question of what the Left has fought for, I would say that the Left fought for the 2025 plan to be implemented. It is not the only one, unfortunately, not least because the Social Democrats did not want to negotiate the 2025 plan either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329140928	Well, I haven't made a quote in the question; I've actually just said exactly how I hear Mr. Hans Andersen say things. I hear sir. Hans Andersen put it this way that it was not so important for the government to have this negotiated, so that the deadline was completely indifferent to the government. It might as well be done on 1 December rather than 1 September; it did not matter to the Prime Minister, it did not matter to the government. That's kind of why I'm standing here, that's to get smarter about it. That is why I tried to ask the Prime Minister, and now I ask the Minister for Employment. But I haven't gotten any smarter. I have not been given an answer to anything, although I would like to know what it was that was being debated and why it was that the things that the Prime Minister initially wanted to have were not brought through. So I haven't gotten any more clever about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141017	In my world, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has become much wiser, and I shall not say what else I would like to say. But in general, it must be said that there are problems with the ears, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. The 2025 plan was presented, and the Social Democrats chose to sit down and sulk in the corner; they did not want to discuss the society of the future and how we organize it. We had hoped that the 2025 plan could be adopted. It could not do so, so we did a government transformation which then led to two other parties being included in the government. It is always a good thing that more parties will join the government if they are the right parties. It was in this situation, and it helped us get a job prize approved. I would like to conclude by saying once again: fortunately, the Social Democratic Party also chose to show responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141059	Then that is the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141101	Who was it most important to have this deadline set for 1 December during the negotiations on a new government? Was it the Liberal Alliance, or was it the Conservatives? Or was it basically the Prime Minister who didn't try to fight back?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141113	I very much welcome the fact that we have managed to adopt a job premium which it was impossible to implement in the autumn because there was no political support for it. And I note that, following very severe political pressure, the Social Democratic Party chose to support the proposal for the benefit of the many people who are on passive transfer income. It is gratifying that everything else would have been sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141137	Thank you. It is good that some things can also be said with a glimpse in the eye. At least that is what the Minister said to the questioner. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen with a new question to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141145	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141147	Thank you for that, President. I read the question to the Minister: was it the intention, when the government made an agreement on the 225-hour rule, that it should be interpreted in such a way that cash benefit recipients with a working capacity of 5 hours a week should be covered by the 225-hour rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141212-2	Thank you for the question. The 225-hour rule is intended to ensure that those who can work are also actually available. The rule only includes exactly those where, according to an individual assessment, the municipality says: Yes, you are actually able to deliver those hours on the labour market. Otherwise, you'll be exempt. I think that is a reasonable set of rules. Is there a job to get? It can be seen that the proportion working alongside their cash benefits was approx. 25% higher in September than last spring. This is due, among other things, to: I have no doubt, however, that the ceiling will also play a role in this regard. I also think it is important to say that we must help to ensure that those who can work are able to get a job on the labour market. This helps both to strengthen the individual and to give the individual a better economy, but also a link with the crucial labour market. This is not least important because there are some economic benefits, both for the individual and not least for Danish society. Then there is no doubt that we can unfortunately see that there are groups in this society about which we have to say that there are a great many who are on cash benefits. Let me say that the number of non-western immigrants and descendants in the cash aid system has increased by 70%. From 2011 to 2016. We can also see that 88 per cent. of married couples, both of whom are in the cash benefits system, have no western background. So we are also dealing with a very massive problem of integration which, I think, we owe something to do about. But I have also noted in connection with the question that has been raised here, and the discussion that took place last week, that the Danish People's Party will discuss the 225-hour rule with me as Minister for Employment, and so I have promised the Danish People's Party that I will do so. Unfortunately, this will not take place in the Parliamentary Chamber, it will take place in the Ministry of Employment. Unfortunately, at that meeting, I do not believe that the Social Democratic Party will participate at this stage either, because I have to understand that the Social Democratic Party does not support the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141419	Here you go, sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141420	Thanks for the speech. I agree, and we also agree with the Social Democrats, that we want more hands on the labour market. I think we are also contributing to this in everyday life, including in the ministry, when we visit the Minister. But when I talk about these people, these people, citizens who have a reduced working capacity of only 5 hours a week, I think that your reduced working capacity means that they are somehow prevented from taking several hours, because they are assessed by the municipality to be able to provide only 5 hours. So I would like to ask the Minister if it was not intended for a different action plan than to pressure some people to actually have to do a job one hundred per cent five hours a week? Then they won't have to be very ill until they can't live up to the 225-hour rule. Does the Minister not think that this is another way to treat these people? So get an action plan that comes out of something other than chasing them into work that they may find difficult to find? Because I don't know if there's work in one hour a day or five hours a week. I see it as difficult with the labour market we have right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141542	Thank you for that, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141543	I would like to start by signing off on the fact that, in general, I have excellent cooperation with the Social Democratic Party, almost on a daily basis, with meetings of the Ministry of Employment. And that's good, because the alternative was worse. In relation to the whole question of the 225-hour rule and the discussion that has taken place on the basis of the case that has been in the Ankestyrelsen, I can tell you, as I have also said, that the Danish People's Party wants to discuss the outcome of the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party. And of course we do, because in respect of the Danish People's Party wanting to discuss this, we choose to do so. Anything else would be weird, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141627	Here you go, sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141629	I am, of course, very pleased that the Minister will discuss the 225-hour rule and the interpretation of the judgment or decision that has been made. I therefore hope that it will be decided that this is another action plan for those who have reduced their working capacity to five hours a week. I don't really think you can be familiar with trying to chase them out like this. I would rather have another action plan, either to clarify what they were going to do in the labour market or to give them a treatment that allowed them to move on to the labour market in one way or another, instead of just saying: you just have to find 225 hours. As I said before, I think it is difficult to find for someone with such a reduced ability to work, while at the same time being actually on sick leave in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141720	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141721	So, as I started by saying, the 225-hour rule is intended to ensure that those who can work are also actually available. I think that is something that is widely agreed in the government and, for that matter, also in the Social Democratic Party. It is healthy that if you are able to work, you are not on passive transfer. Everyone benefits from being part of the labour market. However, as I say, we can see that there has been a decision, and we can see a decision that the Danish People's Party wants to discuss in relation to the agreement that has been reached with the government. And there's the message from me that we do, of course. And I have also noted that the Danish People's Party has said that this is something they would like to discuss with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141807	Thank you. And then there's a co-questioner. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141811	Thank you very much. It is, of course, a rather important question that you raise. And I would also like to sign for the day-to-day cooperation that we have, which I very much appreciate. But that's why you can disagree on some things, and we are certainly in this case with the 225-hour rule. Because it is the case that if we say that you can only work approx. 5 hours a week because you are ill and 5 hours a week is not very much so you have to earn 225 hours in one year to avoid this rather severe reduction in benefit. But does the Minister accept that if only one week cannot get a job and if you can only work 5 hours a week, then there is virtually no way to earn the 225 hours? I understand that the Danish People's Party thinks this is quite serious, because it means putting a group of people who are very ill in a situation they cannot respond to if there is no job to get if there are no job opportunities that are not hanging on the trees when we talk about 5 hours a week. And that is why the Minister must also acknowledge that the Danish People's Party is responding to this and recognises that this is an impossible task for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141917	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329141918	Then we are back to the previous questioner, and I have to say again that I am asking for ears to be knocked out in order to stay in that language. For what I said, sir. Jan Johansen, was that the rule only covers exactly those to which the municipality according to an individual assessment says: Yes, you are actually able to deliver those hours on the labour market. Otherwise, you'll be exempt. And I think that is a fair set of rules. Then the Danish People's Party has, and I think this is part of the political debate, wanted to discuss a matter that has been decided on by the Ankestyrelsen and that has a broader problem in relation to this issue. And that's where I think the most natural thing when you have a good and close cooperation with the Danish People's Party is that you do so, of course. And it is then a discussion which will not take place here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, but which will take place in the Ministry of Employment between the Danish People's Party and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142015	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142016	I am very listening and I have really knocked out so much that, although I have tried, I have still not heard the Minister acknowledge that these people who are so ill that they can only work 5 hours a week have a problem. The Minister has not said so yet, and I do not think I will have the Minister do that either. But I have to ask again: of course I am not going to interfere with the debate, that is what is going on, but can we expect a change in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142041	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142043	In any case, we can first of all sign that the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, says that now the ears are knocked out as much as they can. Then we've come a long way. That's the good stuff. The second is that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen can be quite confident that Dansk Folkeparti and the government have a lot of good discussions. And most often it is also the case that the Social Democratic Party chooses to listen to what the government and the Danish People's Party reach. And I'd like to sign for that too today. That is wise because what the government is proposing is very good things. Sometimes social democracy is opposed, but usually it ends up with social democracy in one way or another actually supporting government policy. And we should be glad that there is broad support for the government's policy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142124	We're back to the main questioner, sir. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142127	Thank you. Well, I am also very pleased that we will come to an agreement in the long term, but that is because we are moving some things so that the government gets the right legislation adopted. That's why the Social Democrats are joining us. In fact, with the decision that has been taken, no citizen is protected from the 225-hour rule, even if the minimum requirement of approx. 5 weekly hours, as required by the 225-hour rule. Will the Minister agree with me? Then, of course, I am delighted that you will meet the Danish People's Party over in the ministry. Then we must try to see what comes out of the discussion that the Minister will have with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142217	Thank you. But I can conclude by saying that I am now having a discussion with the Danish People's Party on the issue that has been raised. And, of course, I will also return to that matter in relation to what those discussions might lead to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142232	Thank you. Then there is a new question, and it is also for the Minister for Employment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142238	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142240	Thank you very much, President. I have asked the following question: what comments does the Minister have on the content of the reply given by the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency to the daily newspaper The Worker on 22 February on the offsetting of agreed senior days, which shows that the holding of such senior days will result in the employee losing the early retirement premium and that it may amount to more than DKK 26,000.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142309	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142312	As can be seen from my answer to question 318 of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, STAR has informed me that in its opinion to the daily newspaper the worker alone has expressed a general opinion on the rules governing the acquisition of tax-free premiums. As the answer also shows, there is no problem in earning the tax-free premium for senior days as long as the senior days are not financed by contributions to the employee's pension scheme. This is because, in relation to senior arrangements under the agreement, it is crucial whether it can be said that the freedom enjoyed is covered by the concept of pay hours. It is paytime that entitles you to a tax-free premium. In fact, it has also been clear since 2012 from SKAT's reporting instructions to employers on e-income. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to express my regret here in the Assembly today that that reply has been too long in the process. This has also been complained to the President of the Danish Parliament by the questioner, and I will of course lie down flat and regret that it has taken too long to answer that question and that it has not been possible to keep to the reply time within a month either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142416	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142418	Thank you to the Minister for the oral answer and also thank you for your regret. It is true that I had wanted an answer on 8 March, and the reason why I wanted an answer on 8 March was that a settlement had been reached in the industrial sector which was based on these senior days, where Members were granted a right to 32 senior holidays when it was fully phased in, and where the daily newspaper The worker had then been presented with information that it could result in the loss of his early retirement premium, or part of it, one should say. That is why I think it was very important that the Minister replied very quickly so that it could be said that the vote on that result would take place on a fully informed basis, because those who had approached had obviously not been able to know it elsewhere, and we as a party have also received many requests on that issue. After all, I think it would have been timely if the Minister had ensured that we had an answer at least before the end of the four-week period. I have received the answer a hour ago, and I have studied it, and I would like the Minister to confirm that I have correctly understood STAR's answer, namely that the answer is yes, if you finance the holding of senior days off with your pension payment, there will be no pay hours reported, with the consequence that you will lose two early retirement premiums according to my calculations if you last all the days. It may be that I am miscalculating, but at least at least a pre-retirement premium. So I would just like to make it quite clear that I have understood the written answer correctly and that that is what it means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142608	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142610	I can start with again, and we should not be too big to regret the fact that it took too long to reply, Mr President. Finn Sørensen in relation to the question that had been asked, and that has also been complained about to the President of the Danish Parliament. It is, of course, also a complaint that will be answered in a short time when I will tell you why I have been in the situation that there has not been an answer in time. But no matter what, there is no good reason not to reply to the Folketing on time, so one owes it to say so. I can, in fact, refer to the answer to what Mr. Finn Sørensen asks where it is very clear on page 2 what is up and down in it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is interested in, in relation to pay hours, in relation to pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142658	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142659	Thank you to the Minister, and I shall then no longer wade in it. I accept the regret and am also glad that the Minister, if I may say so, is laying down flat, as I had just said, at last, but that is not acceptable. I can then just conclude from this question that I have asked that I have understood it correctly: if you use your pension payment to finance senior holidays, you will not save hours for a pre-retirement premium and you will simply miss a pre-retirement premium or perhaps two. This will be the way I have tried to understand a little about the fact that if you are to get the full 32 senior days off, it will be necessary to take off pension funds in order to finance them. Because it cannot be done on its own with the free choice account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142756-2	Thank you for your support for the fact that it would be too much for the Minister to be lying constantly, so I fully agree with the questioner. Compared to what Mr. Finn Sørensen then orbits the different models and in which model you would have to take certain sums, I think we should answer it in writing. I have no opportunity today to deal with it. But I have taken note of that question, sir. Finn Sørensen has asked, and I have also noted that there will then be no more months to reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142834	Thank you. Further written questions will certainly be asked. The last question I would like to ask the Minister is: what is the Minister's position? Is it fair that you lose a pre-retirement premium because you take advantage of a contractual right to have some senior days off, which you probably need very much?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142909	Here you go to the Minister for the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142910	Now, as I said, the rules have been as they have been since 2012, when it has been clear from SKAT's reporting instructions to employers about the e-income register and how to do so. So if it was the case that you had to change it, you could have changed it under the previous government, as Mr. Finn Sørensen supported. I have noticed that this has not been done, and I am not going to change the rules now in force, if that is the question that Mr. Finn Sørensen is quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142936	Thank you for that and the question is closed. We move on to a new question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142942	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329142943	Thank you, and the further question is simply this: Given that the holding of senior holidays has the consequence that the employee loses his tax-free pre-retirement premium, as confirmed by the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment in the daily newspaper The Worker on February 22, 2017, will the Minister take the initiative to change the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143007	As I also pointed out in my answer to Question No. S 971 just a few seconds ago, there is no problem in earning the tax-free premium of senior days as long as the senior days are not financed by the employee's pension payments. As regards the conversion of pension payments into the financing of e.g. senior days, it is STAR's view that the funds cannot be considered to be covered by pay hours, since the person himself finances the reduction in working time with the pension payments. As I mentioned earlier, this is actually quite clear from SKAT's reporting instructions to employers on the e-income register.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143044	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. That is a rather depressing answer, I think, because it must mean that the Minister does not give a damn about the fact that some rights have apparently been agreed for employees who are praised from many quarters, namely that they can earn the right to senior holidays. But it will be very expensive senior days, because it may result in the loss of the tax-free early retirement premium or perhaps two premiums. I understand, then, that the Minister does not give a damn about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143119	I respect the model that we have in Denmark, where the social partners negotiate agreements, and I do not, in fact, intend to enter the Parliamentary Assembly, which is what Mr. Finn Sørensen wants to do here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143136	I didn't try to do that. Because we shouldn't do that, and we agree on that in this Parliament. So we don't. This is about legislation which apparently stands in the way of some people being able to take advantage in an economically reasonable way of rights that they have earned. However, I would like to try to pursue the lead I started with my question. Because it could actually be solved quite simply: if you now equate pension payments with wages. Then you would have solved this problem, and then they would have been able to hold senior days off by means of pension payments without causing any problems. So what would be in the way of using such a model?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143225	I answer all the questions in the Folketing, but sometimes you have to say that you will come back to that in written form. And since that question is, of course, an additional question in relation to what I have been asked here today, I would be happy to answer Mr Seligman's question. Finn Sørensen on this particular issue in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143242	Thank you. If you are very optimistic, it can leave you with a tiny hope that the Minister may look at it anyway. Because it is actually a quite obvious arrangement, and I know that I have not asked the question in advance. In many other contexts, however, pension savings and pension payments are, after all, treated in the same way as wages, so why not do so in this case too? And should the Minister's undertaking, what can we say, to look at it in writing, also mean that he has not completely closed the door so that perhaps we can change the law so that we avoid this injustice which I think it is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143327	I have explained very clearly what the rules are like and also said that they are a set of rules which, among other things, are: has a breeding ground for what happened in 2012, when there was a Social Democratic government that was responsible and where Enhedslisten was a support party. So I think that should be noted first and foremost. In addition, however, this is a question which, in my view, is of both a technical and a political nature, and that is why, of course, I choose to answer it in writing. This is most sensible in order to give the most detailed answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143359	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more questions. And we also thank the Minister for Employment for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, and that is a question for the Minister for Gender Equality, and the questioner is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143424	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the Liberal Alliance that KVINFO stands for state feminism and political propaganda?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143432	Let me start by saying quite clearly that KVINFO is, in this way, the cultural minister's resort. I understand that it is interesting to hear the views of the Minister for Gender Equality on this. What is important to me is that the Minister for Culture has indicated that the decision to place the library task which KVINFO is doing today under the Royal Library is part of the collection of library tasks which has taken place in recent years. With regard to the specific issue of state feminism and political propaganda, I do not think, as a minister, that I should stand up for the statements of another party, so I would like to stay away from that. KVINFO is a self-serving institution, and as such they must think what they want. Some may sometimes take the view that they are almost acting as a political party, and it has to be for each person's own account what is said in this context. In my view, as Minister for Gender Equality, one of the forces in terms of equality is precisely that a great many people are interfering in the debate and that there are in fact many different voices. I think this is useful and beneficial for the debate on equality, because it is through debates and through dialogue that we keep the focus on precisely the gender challenges that men and women still face in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143605-2	Well, thank you to the Minister for running. I don't see what that has to do with the Minister for Culture, because I didn't really ask about the library. This is another discussion. It is not an indifferent party that has said this either. It is a government party, so I really think it is important to talk to the Minister for Gender Equality about how the government views KVINFO. That is why I would like the Minister to consider that there is a party in the government that believes that KVINFO stands for state feminism and political propaganda. I really think it is fair enough to ask the Minister for Gender Equality to consider whether she agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143638-2	But I have not agreed with that and I think I have made it very, very clear that KVINFO is not the Council of Ministers for Equal Opportunities. This is quite essential in a discussion on how the government is dealing with KVINFO. It is the Minister for Culture who answers it, and the decision of the Minister for Culture, who has already resigned, in relation to the research part, is that this library task, which KVINFO solves today and which is therefore part of the cultural minister's area, is now being placed under the Royal Library. With regard to the fact that a single rapporteur is out of the question of how a self-serving institution acts and handles various tasks, I believe that it is the right of every politician to do so. Then you yourself, as a person, have to answer for your statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143735	As far as I am concerned, it is not a question of having the right to say so. It would be idiotic of me to stand and say that you have no right to say what you want to do, of course. But does the Minister not agree that equality is, after all, something that KVINFO is concerned with and that it is also something that the Minister is concerned with? So I assume that it is appropriate to ask whether it is the government's view that it is political propaganda and state feminism that is taking place in KVINFO. After all, the Minister for Gender Equality may have an opinion on this, whether it is another party that has said so, even though it is a government party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143804	I also think that I have expressed my position in relation to the fact that debates and dialogues on equality for me as the Minister for Gender Equality are crucially important. KVINFO is not under my command. It is the Minister for Culture who decides what the full scale of KVINFO should be. She has now decided to place the library task under the auspices of the Royal Library, and it is entirely up to the Minister of Culture to make such decisions, which I naturally support as a colleague in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143840	The questioner with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143841	But it is going to be a little strange because for me it is not about where the library should be; it is about the government looking at KVINFO as someone who stands for state feministism and political propaganda. The Minister must have an opinion on this. I mean, is that just something the Liberal Alliance thinks? Or is that also an opinion shared by the Minister? And if the Minister does not share it, the Minister will disapprove of the way in which we talk about an organisation which is concerned with equality and which falls within the remit of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143906	No, I must by no means disapprove of what parties in the government may pronounce. A rapporteur has spoken. She has an idea of the way in which KVINFO acts, and there she makes some very harsh statements, and that is her position. As Minister for Gender Equality, I am saying that, in this way, it is important that we have debates and dialogue on gender equality, although sometimes they are a little trench warlike and do it really benefit equality in Denmark? You can rightly focus on that. Now, later today, I have the pleasure of having the debate on the statement, and there will certainly be more questions about it here. So let us continue the debate later this evening, when we have the opportunity, so that we can deepen it even further, also in relation to what I actually see as the biggest equality problems we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329143957	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality. Then we move on to Question 13 and that is to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144010	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen is ready now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144011	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: will the Minister state when the Minister intends to call the pool parties for a discussion on the possible extension of the target group for the second-hand exposure pool for asbestos victims, as the Minister promised on 17 January this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144029	Thank you for the question. I assume that the questioner refers to the harsh health minister, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørbys,'s statement to Ritzau that she is prepared to discuss the 2015 agreement on the special rate pool of 10 million. kr., which, with the support of the parties behind the rate pool, provides financial compensation for second-hand exposed asbestos victims. I myself have also said to the questioner that I am happy to take part in such a discussion. After all, the present system entitles persons who have developed pulmonary cancer after having been exposed to indirect exposure to asbestos dust to an allowance of DKK 170,000. Those persons have typically been exposed in connection with the washing of work clothes. And that arrangement has been agreed in the pool of rates precisely to compensate for the fact that these people cannot seek compensation for the legislation on accidents at work, as can be done by asbestos workers. However, as the scheme is now organized, it covers only spouses, cohabitants and parents of asbestos workers. Children are therefore not included in the scheme, and I can only guess so, since I did not take part in the negotiations myself because it was not aware that children too are unable to seek compensation if they develop pulmonary cancer after having been exposed to indirect exposure to asbestos. I would like to say that if, in the pool of rates, where I myself have been negotiating for many years, there are proposals from some of the pool parties that one would like to extend a target group for the compensation scheme, then one should have such a discussion around a pool table. However, in relation to whether the Minister should call for negotiations in the middle of a time when we are actually not sitting at any wagering pool negotiations, I would say and I know it sounds boring and processive that this is just not the direction in it. It seems to me quite personally that it is a sympathetic idea also to want to protect the children of asbestos workers who have developed this very serious disease. That is why I am convinced that we will find a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144247	Thank you. Yes, and that is exactly the sensible solution I am asking for, and I am asking for it with very, very great impatience. I cannot understand that changing health ministers cannot understand the spoken language when such a debate comes up and a Social Democratic rapporteur put a question to the Minister on 17 January. However, this is the clearest signal that something has to be done from one part of the rate pool. That is why I would like to ask: who should take responsibility? So, I think it would be absolutely natural for a minister who has heard that something is perceived as unfair and unreasonable, and that is precisely in a case where the fight against cancer and we who negotiated it at the time had a feeling that the children were covered. That is why my criticism of the Minister and the temp is that the Ministry of Health should not stop now. Listen to what has been said. That is why my question is this: is it so clear enough to understand that there is at least one party in the pool of rates asking the Minister to take the initiative to invite the parties to discuss it here? Because a written question on 17 January, two months ago, was not clear enough. And that puzzles me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144414	Damn straight enough for the President. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144418	Thank you. I can start by reassuring the questioner that the Ministry of Health has certainly not come to a standstill, and the temporary health minister is also doing so fully with lots of important matters, including health. I just have to remind you of how bet pool negotiations are going on. When you have made an agreement about a target group about a pool of money, it is not the case that you can just say that the target group needs to be expanded. Because if you expand a target group, there will also be a need for funding, and that is a question that needs to be addressed in the context of a pool agreement. It's not about just opening the bet pool and making a new negotiation, although it may sound like it's some kind of quick fix you can just make. So my answer, as I have confirmed again, and as given by the on- leave and the incoming Minister for Health, is that if you want to find funds from the Socialist side to finance an extension of the scheme through the rate pool, and I understand that you are focused on that, then it is something that needs to be brought to the table during the rate pool negotiations. And I'll imagine that even though it's probably not gonna be me who's gonna have to negotiate it... that it's gonna be something you want to look at positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144536	I just have to say that with my long knowledge of the Ministry of Health, I have seen that flexibility can also be shown. This is a question of the Ministry of Health not being responsive, they are tone-deaf, they are not flexible. This has been raised as a real challenge. This is a real challenge because it affects citizens. Pneumonia cancer of this particular type is very aggressive. After five years, only 9% are alive. That's why we have to respond to this compensation. That is why two months have been wasted in this case, where I believe that the Minister has really slept per hour, because the money is here. We have set aside 10 million. kr. There are more than 8 million. kr. back in this pool, and if the wagering parties just nod that the children, the very few children of second-hand exponers who are looking for compensation, can come along, then we can get it started in quite, quite a few weeks. This is a matter of the fact that there is a ministry that is tone-deaf. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144651	I can certainly say so much that I cannot stand here today and say exactly how much has been spent by the pool, because it has been asked as a committee question, and we are actually getting information about this from the Patient Safety Agency. I can follow impatience. I am not tone-deaf in relation to that wish either, but I just can't start from scratch saying: fine, we are expanding the target group. But I do not disagree with the annoyance that you may not have been aware of the children exactly when you made that agreement. So let's start by at least getting the answer from the Board for Patient Safety about how much has been used by the pot. As I have been informed by the Ministry, I am certainly not aware of the proportion of the 10 million. kr. that has already been paid out in compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144744	No, but I can inform the Minister of that, because I have received an answer to that in relation to Question 386 from January, which says that there are ten people who have received compensation. And when we know how large the compensation is, it is very, very easy to figure out that there are 8.3 million. kr. back, at least as it looked at the turn of the year. However, Minister, what I am asking you is one more time: is it now the Minister, on the basis of both my written questions from January and my oral questions today, who calls the rate pool rapporteurs for a discussion, or how does the Minister feel that I should act as rapporteur? After all, it is usually the Minister who is listening and calling for rapporteur meetings. It is as if a great deal has happened over there after we have got temporary agency, replacement and everything else. It is as if it is not running as smoothly in the Ministry of Health and the Elders as we have been used to in the past. And it's too bad if it's going to hurt some patients like this. So who is calling the meeting that I am asking for and that the Minister is asking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144847	I'm not calling for a meeting. What I'm looking for now is up-to-date facts about how and how that pool looks. Then the questioner can say that this is from January. However, if you decide in the middle of a pool period in the middle of the period during which funds have been set aside that you have to expand the target group, then you also have to know whether there are sufficient funds. This has to be investigated, and that is what has been the answer to many of the questions put in committee. So there won't be a call for new bet pool negotiations. But I'd like to admit so much that I kind of think this isn't an uninteresting case. There is hardly anything there, but I am of course interested in this matter too. So let us just wait for everything else to get the latest status of how many we are talking about, how large the pool is and how far the funds are enough to expand the target group in which the questioner and the temporary health minister have an interest too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329144955	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. We move on to Question 14, which is also addressed to the Minister for Health. And the questioner is Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145004	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that Nordfyn's municipal council did not contact the Board for Patient Safety (the official physician) when finding bentazone in the drinking water from Veflinge Waterworks in 2016, but carried out a new test which showed a content below the limit value, and does the Minister agree with senior official physician Henrik L. Hansen's general view that a municipal council has a duty to respond?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145042	Thank you for the question. As the questioner is probably already aware, the Ministry of Health and the Elderly has tried to have this question converted into an alm. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you a few questions because a specific answer to the question that has been asked actually requires a contribution from, among other things, the Commission. Ministry of Environment and Food. The questioner did not want that, and that is quite all right. But that is why I will try to answer to the best of my ability in relation to what is within the remit of the Minister for Health. I can inform you that the Board of Patient Safety has a general obligation under the Health Act to advise municipalities, regions and government authorities on environmental issues. If a municipality is in doubt as to whether contaminated drinking water can be harmful to health, yes, then the board should advise on it. But of course this also requires that the municipality contact the Board for Patient Safety in order to get that advice. When it comes to the question of what a municipal council should do, if the drinking water in the municipality is contaminated, that is where we come up with the area of the Minister for the Environment and Food, because it is regulated by the law on water supply, that is not the area of the Minister for Health. Just as a service information, I can say that the Water Supply Act states that a municipal council's decision as to whether water is hazardous to health must be made after, as I mentioned earlier, it has been discussed with the Board of Patient Safety. Therefore, the rules on when the municipal council should contact the board, that is to say, something which is covered by the law on water supply, and which is therefore the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145229	Thank you for your answer. Now I can see that the Minister for the Environment and Food is coming, and I am very pleased about that. For as the Minister also knows, I subsequently have a question for the Minister for the Environment and Food. I hope you can talk to each other in the government. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Health is running today. I would like to thank you for that, because there is no doubt that our drinking water is really important for us Danes. We make high demands on drinking water. It must be clean and the so-called limit values for undesirable substances are not under discussion. It can also be seen that the Board of Patient Safety, that is to say the former official doctor, today reports in Fyens Stiftstidende that the limit values are not compromised. The limit values cannot be graded. I fully agree with that. What we can read in the municipal statement, which I have also referred to in the explanatory statement for the question today, is that you first reacted, i.e. contacted the Board for Patient Safety, in March 2017, when the paper wrote its articles, and therefore not in 2016. The Minister is right to say that, in order to be advised, the municipal council must make contact, and I think it is problematic that no contact has been made. I understand that it has been the practice in the past that the drinking water samples were automatically sent to the official doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145429	I did not see so many more direct questions for me, just recognising that exactly the thing about when a municipality should react is actually regulated in the water supply law, and that is why it is quite understandable that the questioner discusses the law on water supply with the Minister for the Environment and Food and takes the whole discussion about what the Board of Patient Safety is doing in relation to it, with the Minister for the Environment and Food. I also think it is important to understand and to note that the results of the Danish Agency for Patient Safety have also been published in a press release on the municipality's website, where it appears: You can safely drink the water from Veflinge Waterworks. The water is not dangerous to health. This is how I have been informed that the results of the published press release have been published on the municipality's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145531	Well, I would like to ask the Minister for Health directly if the Minister has read the municipal statement on the municipality's website about contact with the official doctor, the Board for Patient Safety, where it is very clear that the official doctor, the Board for Patient Safety, was not contacted in 2016. Only when the newspaper started writing about it did it take the initiative for a meeting on 23 March 2017. I am happy to follow up on written questions, but does the Minister not think that the official doctor should be informed in these situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145618	Yes, I think so, but also just to sum up: I do not have the opportunity here to consider whether the municipality of Nordfyn should have acted differently in this matter, because the obligation of the municipal council to react in a certain way is therefore something that needs to be discussed in connection with the water supply law. But the fact that you are aware of something and then seek advice and guidance from the Board for Patient Safety is what I have explained. There it is precisely the Agency for Patient Safety's task to provide advice and guidance to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145658	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145659	Well, this question is also relevant to me, because the first thing that happened in 2015 was that the Ministry of Health and this government cut down on the grant, that is to say, 35 million. kr. out of 50 million kr., which the SR government had set aside to strengthen research into the relationship between undesirable substances that we either consume or that are in our immediate environment, and then our health, including e.g. Getting pregnant. So I guess this is a question that also concerns the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145743	But let me conclude by saying what the author of the question said, namely that it is a Danish quality that we can safely drink the water that is in our taps. This is something we invest very, very many tax dollars in that we can. That is why it is very well regulated in the Water Supply Act, what must be of limit values etc. And the laws we adopt, indeed, they are in the world for them to be complied with, and there will then be a further discussion of this in connection with the Minister for the Environment and Food's Water Supply Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145822	Thank you to Mrs. Julie Skovsby. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 15, and it is also Julie Skovsby who is the questioner. And it's for the Minister for the Environment and Food. So I would also like to thank the Minister for Health for today's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145841	Thank you. Is it the Minister's assessment that the Municipality of Nordfyn has complied with its oversight obligations in the Veflinge Waterworks case, which did not contact the Board for Patient Safety in the detection of bentazone in drinking water, and what future action has the City Council taken to ensure a long-term solution that does not include mixing raw water from several boreholes, in order to reduce the concentration of undesirable substances in drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329145909	Thank you, President, and also thank you for the question to Mrs Skovsby. The Ministry of the Environment and Food is responsible for the rules on drinking water and the control of the quality of drinking water, but it is not the responsibility of the Ministry to supervise the municipalities' performance of their supervisory tasks. This is the task of the State Administration as part of the supervision that municipalities and regions comply with the legislation that applies in particular to public authorities. If the Ministry becomes aware that the rules on the control of drinking water are not complied with, the Ministry will of course respond to that. In the specific case, Nordfyns Kommune's press release of 16 March 2017 and also the municipality's website show that the municipality has been in constant contact with the Danish Agency for Patient Safety on the matter. The municipality informs on its website that it has been in contact with the official doctor back in 2013 and that the municipality has followed the recommendations. That is clear, among other things. of Nordfyns Kommune's website, that · and I quote: The Board for Patient Safety (the former medical institution) and the municipality's conclusion remains that you can safely drink the water from Veflinge Waterworks. The water is not harmful to health. I have asked the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which estimates that on the basis of the information on the municipality's website there is no reason to believe that the municipality has not complied with its supervisory obligation in relation to the involvement of the health authorities in the case. It is not illegal to mix water from different boreholes to ensure that bentazone in drinking water is kept under the quality requirement. This can, in principle, be a long-term solution. What is crucial in relation to compliance with the rules, and especially with regard to consumers, is that the water supplied by the taps is clean and healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150055	Thank you for your answer. Now it is so good that the Minister for the Environment and Food can respond. The minister referred to the press release on the municipality's website, and of course the minister has also read the municipal statement on the municipality's website. It's getting nodded. It's good. Then, as I asked the Minister for Health, I would like to ask what the Minister's position is on the fact that in 2016, when it had been found that the limit value had been exceeded, the official physician, the Patient Safety Agency, was not contacted. For as I referred to in my previous question, senior official Henrik L. Hansen says in general that the municipal council has a duty to react and that it cannot be allowed to stand for several years as a municipality. Several experts also say that the official doctor should have been informed of the repeated overruns, says Fyens Stiftstidende on 16 March 2017. Then the question is: What are years? Because is it not the case that from 2013 until now we are talking about years, and should we not have been informed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150225	Thank you, President. Thank you also for the follow-up question. The simple answer is, of course, that it is the task of the State Administration to monitor that the municipalities comply with what they have to do. As such, I do not have an opinion on what is asked for my opinion. In other words, it is a task of the State Administration to supervise, and they must assess whether the municipalities comply with the rules they have to observe in relation to their enforcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150247	It can also be read in Fyens Stiftstidende that an internal mail was sent to the official doctor from Nordfyns Kommune, where they wrote that after dialogue with the water plant in 2013 they had agreed not to inform about exceedances of limit values in relation to water quality. Does the Minister not think that it is always necessary to inform the official doctor, the Board for Patient Safety, of the exceedances of these limit values?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150334	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, to the questioner for the follow-up question. But it is the task of the State Administration to ensure that what the municipalities are doing is right. There are practices for this, and it is the State Administration's decision whether to live up to those practices, whether it is one institution or the other. Everyone has an interest in knowing about the cases that are going on. After all, the state administration must decide whether the reporting obligation as a municipality will also be respected. That's the task of the State Administration, even in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150410	Finally, let me ask this: when Professor of Business Administration at the SDU Bent Ole Gram Mortensen says that if there are recurring exceedences, as is the case, of the limit values laid down in our drinking water, then the supervisory authority must be obliged to intervene, and here one is thinking of the municipal council, does the Minister think that the State Administration should look at whether they should intervene and go into this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150452	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, for the third follow-up question. Well, the State Administration must decide for themselves, for the State Administration is in a position where, if it is a matter that calls their attention to the fact that there are things that have not been done legally and like, they must assess whether it is enough for the State Administration to enter into the case in question. So I have great confidence that the State Department can administer it itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150518	Then I would like to thank both the Minister for the Environment and Food and Mrs. Julie Skovsby for the work she has done today. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 16, it is for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, and the question has been asked by Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150536	Thank you, President. I have to read out my question: what initiatives has the Minister planned to reduce the number of suicide attempts in, among others, the United Kingdom? North Jutland, which in 4 years has doubled, compare a new report from the Center for Suicide Research mentioned in Nordjyske Stiftstidende on 15 March 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150559	There should be no doubt that I believe that any suicide attempt is a suicide attempt too much. But there are many different and complex causes of suicide attempts, which means that this is not an issue that can be resolved easily and quickly. Many who attempt suicide have psychiatric diagnoses, abuse problems, poor links with the labour market and also experience loneliness and isolation. Some are toppled by divorce, dismissal, or loss in other ways. And then there is a group of young people who, for various reasons, find it difficult to find a foothold in life. All these people, of course, we as a society must deal with, but I cannot stand here and say how to solve the great challenge we have with too many suicide attempts. However, I do believe that what we can do is to safeguard our fundamental communities and also to safeguard our human relations. Because it is through contact with the family, at school, at work, in voluntary communities, in society that we best prevent the exclusion of people who can ultimately lead to suicide. That is why I am also pleased that there are so many good voluntary initiatives such as the Life Line, Sct. Nicolai Service and Headspace, who stand ready to help people who are somewhere in life where it hurts. Actually, I think that's the best way to look after each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150735	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this, I think, in-depth answer to my question, but also for the feeling that is, in relation to the very tragic situation, it is that many people are so pressured in their lives that they resort to trying to commit suicide. I have great respect for the fact that the Minister takes it so seriously and explains how complex a problem it is and also explains how much has actually been set in motion to meet these people. So thank you very much for that; I think we are very much in agreement that some people really need to be helped here. What is a little disturbing when you look at the figures that are here is that you see quite a sharp increase in these suicide attempts in North Jutland. Thus, there is more than a doubling of suicide attempts in North Jutland in the period from 2012 to 2015. And if you compare North Jutland with e.g. Region Sjælland, you will see that there are four times as many suicide attempts in North Jutland. I would like to hear from the Minister whether anything has been done in the Ministry to map out this particular North Jutland challenge with this: that there are four times as many suicide attempts in North Jutland as there are in the Region of Zealand. Well, what could it be? That's one thing. The second thing is that when we look at the reports, it seems that there is an over-representation of people who are socially vulnerable in the group who are trying to commit suicide in North Jutland. So, because of our social policy, can people simply be under pressure so hard that people who are on cash benefits or early retirement are resorting to suicide attempts as a cry for help? Or what kind of thoughts has the Minister made about this connection? Is it simply our way of dealing with people on social services that is so harsh that there are some who see no other way but to cry out for help in an attempt to kill themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329150949	As I said just now, I really believe that we are dealing with a very complex issue and I think it is difficult to isolate it into being either one or the other. I think it's a combination of several things. And there are already good things going on. There are, among other things: Suicide prevention centres in all regions and 34 million have been allocated to the 2016 Rate Pool Agreement. kr. • suicide prevention initiatives in the health field. This is something that should help address the issues, including regional ones. I cannot help saying to the questioner that I hope we will not talk about a North Jutland phenomenon. I'd be really, really sorry. But I think it is interesting if we can have a better basis for studying the figures. In the Ministry, we are working very hard to learn more about the numbers that we receive all the time, and then again to use data to improve efforts forward-looking. We will do the same when it comes to the prevention of suicide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151055	As I also mentioned in my first reply, I have great respect for the Minister's approach to this and for the humility shown in relation to this very serious problem. I also have respect for the Minister's statement that this is a complex issue. It would be quite untimely to imagine that there were quick snapshot solutions to this very serious problem. But when you look at the reports that have been made after all, it seems that there is an over-representation among early retirement and cash benefits recipients in that group in North Jutland and that it has increased. There I think the Minister owes it to him to answer whether it may be that our social policy tightens so hard on the weakest groups that it may be what pushes them into suicide attempts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151144	As I said before, I think it's very important not to address this very one-eyed and just look at an explanation for it. I think it is a whole series of things that lead to a person ultimately choosing to take his own life and that is deeply unhappy. When I am asked about further initiatives, I have to say that I am not sure that it is necessarily further initiatives that need to be taken, because I actually see that with the initiatives that are in the area today, with the headspace, the Lifeline and with these regional centres, there is in fact a good skill present to deal with it. So I do not think it is right to introduce new initiatives. I think the right thing to do is to keep looking at how we can improve the existing measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151237	I fully agree that there is every reason to welcome and indeed really acknowledge the great work that many people are doing in this area. No one mentioned, no one forgotten. But now we are just in the situation that over recent years we have seen quite a significant increase in the number of suicide attempts, which fortunately are not attempts that end up with people dying from it, but are attempts where people are rescued at the finish line. So there may be a group of people who are using this to maybe cry out for help. Can it, and there I hope the Minister will reply this time, be due to the fact that, in relation to our social system, we are pushing people so hard that it is perhaps one of the ways they see to point out that they are really challenged, really pressed, really miserable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151334	I sincerely believe that this can be due to a great many different things, and I do not think that we can look at the economic, loneliness or psychiatry situation alone. I really believe that it is a combination of many different things that cause the cardhouse to fall over and that there is a desire to no longer exist. That is also why I am saying that with the offers that exist today, there will be more data and the more data we can learn about and the more we can do to further develop them, the better it will be. And I think it's difficult to get the answer much closer than what I've been trying to do now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151420	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for today's work. We move on to Question 17, which is also for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, and the questioner is Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151435	Thank you. I read the question: The Minister has agreed to launch a task force with the Municipality of Jammerbugt to provide the municipality with tools for good processing and knowledge of the legislation • What effects does the Minister expect from this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151454	Thank you for the question. In other words, a long task force is a very good tool to bring the problems to light and also to ensure a lasting quality boost in the handling of cases. The long run starts with such a very thorough analysis of the whole matter, where the task force among others. comes in and looks at the overall policies, comes in and looks at guidelines in the area of child trafficking, in the professional management of the area and in the context of the interventions. In addition, the Ankestyrelsen examines 20 specific cases in the municipality, where they are among others. Checking to see if the cases comply with rules and practices. So I hope and also have an expectation that the task force will find out about the strengths and weaknesses of the case in the Jammerbugt Municipality, and on the basis of that analysis the task force will then come up with a number of recommendations on how the municipality can develop itself and also quality-proof the area. Finally, the municipality is offered a development programme, where you get support to increase the quality of the case through a number of tools, skills development, sparring and knowledge, and this is a long and tough move, because a long process takes approx. 2 years in total, but it is also a very thorough and very focused effort that you put in with right where there is the most need. It is also my expectation that the task force will lead to a significant increase in the quality of the case management in the municipality, because it is the experience of the municipalities that have had a long-term collaboration with the task force, and here I can mention the municipality of Middelfart, which says that the professional work on the case management has been strengthened; concrete procedures have been made in a number of areas, both within the department and in relation to the cooperation between the administrations, and as a side benefit has also increased the professional pride of the employees and encouraged the well-being and retention of the employees, which is actually worth mentioning in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151652	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for an open and regular approach to making an effort to clarify this process, because it has simply been a mess shop, in good North Jutland, and it has been really difficult to be a citizen of that store. There have been all sorts of examples of poor procedures which have resulted in great frustration. I will follow up on the closed consultation that we had, where the minister was just as accommodating, in that this is something we must have done about and I certainly do so too, and it is a little related to the other day that I was able to read in Nordjyske Stiftstidende that the committee chairman in the area went out and said: We are using the Ankestyrelsen to set a level. Then I get a little worried about the approach that the municipality has to take in a constructive process and use the Ankestyrelsen for what it should be used for, namely to deal with questions of doubt, and not to be part of it, if I may say so, daily proceedings, because it is far too complicated for cases to be posted back and forth between Copenhagen and the appeal boards and the individual municipality. That is why I would like the Minister to consider whether this is a sensible approach, as the chairman of the committee has indicated, that is to say, using the Ankestyrelsen to set a level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151844	I am not going to stand by what a committee chairman says, but I just want to make it clear and say it very, very clearly and I am really happy enough that the rapporteur notes and is positive about my a little tough approach to this: that the law must be respected. At the same time, I do have the expectation that citizens' services will also be provided, that is to say, to ensure that a service is provided to the citizen at the same time, and that this involves a good dialogue and that there is also constructive, good and trusting cooperation on the ground. In fact, I think that is a very, very good task to take on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329151924-2	I am pleased that this is the Minister's approach to it. What worries me is that we are at risk of being in a situation where the land is not fertilised to accept the good advice that could be given. What initiatives could the Minister take with a view to getting the seriousness of a Social Affairs Committee which has obviously not fully understood what the legislation is about, combined with what the Minister has emphasised, namely that this is also a matter of having good and proper procedures for citizens? What initiatives could the Minister consider to ensure that the soil is sufficiently fertilized?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152018	Well, I actually have a lot of tricks about these task forces, because they just come in and get a look at the whole store, that is, on cases and case review and on the whole cooperation within the administrations. I would also like to congratulate the City of Jammerbugt for taking the task force to heart. It is, of course, voluntary that one could have chosen not to be involved in such a process. When you choose to take part in a process, I must also take it as an indication that you want to look freshly at how to carry out the task. I would just like to say that it is a good thing that this process is already being started in April. In fact, I think the City of Jammerbugt should have that praise. The fact that they quickly jump on and say that they want to have a task force and that it is launched so quickly can only be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152115	I am also grateful for the fact that the municipality of Jammerbugt has said yes to this, because I have to say that I have rarely seen such a need to have a thorough and systematic review of an area which so much bons out to the disadvantage of the citizens. So I'm really happy about that, too. I should just like to ask the Minister how closely the Minister will follow the course that is now being set in motion in this area, fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152151	I have no intention of close follow-up, let alone involvement. I think it is right that when you start a task force which is a long-term course over two years, you also allow the task force to come out and work well and thoroughly in constructive and positive cooperation with the municipality. So the fact that I have to get involved as minister is not something I think will be conducive to the process. I believe that we need to put on some professional hats and that we can therefore see how we can optimise how we can improve matters in the area of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152239	Thank you. Then we move on to question 18 to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, and that is Mr. Orla Hav, who has a further question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152250	I read out: how will the families who have been through even very long processing times and not properly handling the legislation experience changes in the task force process, and not least when?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152304	First of all, I would like to stress that I cannot go into the specific case, nor can I assess the reasons why the municipality has taken the decisions that the municipality has taken. This also means that I cannot assess whether the municipality has handled the legislation correctly or not, but there is no doubt that the parents' criticism is based on a real frustration about some things in the municipality that seem just not to have worked well enough and satisfactorily. That is why I have repeatedly stressed to the municipality that they have a responsibility to remedy the situation, because families with children with disabilities are entitled to their cases being dealt with quickly, professionally and in accordance with the law, also in the City of Jammerbugt. And I would like to add that it is not necessarily because it would be a scandal to provide a good service to our citizens at the same time, which also means that there is a constructive and confidence-building dialogue. I believe that the long task force, which the municipality is now starting up as early as this April, will help to secure this in the long run. For the task force comes in and offers a thorough analysis of the entire area followed by a number of recommendations on how the municipality can develop and quality-proof the area itself. The municipality will then also be offered a development programme in which it will be supported to increase the quality of the case-handling process by means of a number of tools, skills development, sparring and knowledge. Then it is also important to remember that the task of the task force is not therefore to take decisions in individual cases. The purpose of the process is to support the municipality in a development process which should lead to better processing and a general improvement in the quality of the procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152504	After all, I share all the good and also all the high expectations of speed, professionalism, compliance with the law and good service to citizens. However, I just have to say that the signals I am getting are that the citizens feel so much stepped on. As recently as today, I have seen representations from citizens who say that they can hardly do it anymore. They have put their house for sale, they want to leave the municipality as soon as possible, and they feel hung out, and this is not least because of the remark that I have not been able to get the Minister to deal with before, namely the deep inappropriateness of the Social Committee chairman going out and finding that the Ankestyrelsen is being used to set a level. Such treatment of parents simply has the effect of feeling powerless in relation to a strong system that one faces. It is, of course, in this situation that I would very much like the Minister to ensure that rapid results are achieved, and I would like to see some results communicated out so that it gives the citizens hope. Can the Minister contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152631	I should just like to emphasise once again that I have not seen the statement in question, and I cannot say in what context the words have fallen. But I can at least say that a task force is not a quick fix in which they move in one afternoon, and then you turn the bucket around, and then there is a complete radical change the next day. It is a very, very long, cool move and it will take time, but it should be worth the time and the investment, so that the procedure should end up with a qualitative boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152710	I would just like to say to the Minister's information that the context in which the chairman of the committee expresses himself is, of course, a reaction to the fact that the task force is now moving in and working with the municipality, and that is why I am a little concerned about whether this is the right approach from the municipality. So when I ask for a greater speed than the two years, it's both because I'm impatient, but not least because those parents who are really in a hurry need in some way within the two years to get some signals that now it's starting to improve. I'm on board, it's the municipality that has to inform, but how are the possibilities to follow up that the municipality can communicate to the parents and say: Now we've reached the step and we're ready for the next?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152807	I have to say that it is the responsibility and task of local politicians to give parents the help and support they need in this way, and that is why it is not for me to be able to pass judgment. If you do not think that you get the correct support and help, then you have an opportunity to complain. But we, as politicians, must be confident that the task force which is now in operation and which has also been in operation in other municipalities will help to improve the quality of the proceedings in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152849	It should not be short of my goodwill to have the same understanding as the Minister, that is to say that I think it helps to put some expert knowledge and professionalism into this process, and I am also a decentralizist in that way that I certainly think it is the local authorities who have to deal with local matters that are perfectly obvious. But I just have to say to the Minister so quietly that there is a parent group that has such a screaming need to register in a relatively short space of time that things are now moving in the right direction, and now we can expect something to happen. That is just what I would ask the Minister to consider: what opportunities does the municipality have in this context to communicate to citizens that now things change for the better?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329152943	I think I've been very sharp in my communication. The law must be observed, and that is also why I have no problem with that sharpness. But I am also glad that we are in agreement, and then I would like to say here, with a smile on my lips, that it might be that we, on the part of the government, should consider such a special Orla Sea task force as we could drive into such a municipality and then come in and watch there. It is actually just to congratulate the rapporteur on his insane commitment, which I respect and also admire.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153022	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Orla Sea for today's efforts. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 19, which is for the Minister of Education, and the main questioner is Annette Lind. And when a gentleman arrives at the polls along the way, sir. Erik Christensen, a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153042	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior that a soul has not felt that there have been 30,000 fewer employees in the municipalities, including fewer teachers in the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153056	Thank you. The taxpayers' money must be spent as best they can. It is therefore reasonable to demand that the public sector, including the municipalities, focus on solving the tasks smarter and cheaper and at the same time investing targetedly in new initiatives. If we look at the facts, we have to say that the number of teachers has been decreasing in recent years. While there were approx. In 2016, there were about 45,000 full-time teachers in 50,000 full-time teachers around 2010. However, the decline in the number of teachers has to be seen in the context of fewer pupils in primary school during the same period. Number of pupils per year teachers at national level have thus increased, but if both teachers and educators are seen, it appears that there has been an increase in total teaching staff per year. student in primary school. It is interesting, moreover, that the number of public employees is so high for the Social Democratic Party, bearing in mind that actual public employment fell by approx. 5,000 people, while Helle Thorning-Schmidt was prime minister. It is essential for the government that the public funds are generally used more appropriately in order to maximise the welfare of the funds available. Efficiency opportunities and opportunities to spend resources more on core tasks are still present, and they must of course be tried out, including through regulatory simplification and decentralization, which will give municipalities and schools better management opportunities and greater freedom to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153234	I would like to ask about the policy of the Liberal Alliance. After all, the Liberal Alliance has put forward a 2025 plan, and it has been said that the public sector must be slimmed down quite sharply, by 10%. This means that where there are 827,000 civil servants today, according to the 2025 plan of the Liberal Alliance, that number should be slimmed down to 736,000. That's almost 100,000 fewer employees. Are teachers supposed to be fired?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153309	Mrs Annette Lind is very welcome to ask. What I'm giving you is government policy. As I said, this is the case if we look at the teaching staff per year. In general, there has been an increase in the total number of teaching staff per year. student in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153331-2	Now it is the case that, under Article 20, we are asking the Minister what the Minister thinks, and I assume that the Minister thinks the same as the Liberal Alliance, that the public sector should be significantly slimmed down, that there should be 100,000 fewer employees, and that not a soul will see that there have been 30,000 fewer employees that have been asked about here. Let us hear quite specifically: does the Minister, also as a member of the LA, think that teachers should be fired?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153405	Yeah, we can stand and shoot it back and forth across the table. I do not know whether the questioner agrees that there was a actually decrease in public employment by approx. 5,000 people, while Helle Thorning-Schmidt was prime minister. I am the Minister of Education, I am dealing with schools, and there I think it is important for the municipalities to ensure that the core tasks are given priority and that schools are taken seriously. For one of the most important services provided by the welfare state is the primary school. All children go to primary school, they must have a good school, and as parents you can reasonably expect and demand that when you pay as much tax as you do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153453	Then the ride has come to the co-questioner, sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153458	Thank you. The Minister says that taxpayers' money must be used in the best possible way. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. The Minister also says that there is still room for efficiency in the public sector. Now we're talking schools today. Can the Minister point out some areas where it is possible to make schools more efficient so that teachers do not necessarily have to be fired, but that they can be made more efficient? Can the Minister make any suggestions for that? Because it's gonna be a little theoretical in my world if we don't get a little concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153535	Now I don't know every school's everyday life. The municipalities know them better. But what I can say is that there are very large differences in how much money is spent per person. student. The difference is in fact one to two between the municipality which spends the least money per year. student, and the municipality that spends the most money per year. student • i.e. Double up. Some of this can be attributed to the fact that there are different student bases. But these are very big differences. Therefore, there must also be expected to be some difference between how the municipalities spend the money and how the individual schools spend the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153614	It is absolutely true that there is a difference. But one major reason for the difference is that there are some municipalities that close small schools and make larger schools and thus fewer classes and have more pupils in each class. That's one way to do it. I don't know if that's what the minister thinks is a good idea... that we should have even bigger schools and have even more students into each class. Because if what the Minister has just said is a believer, that is the way to make things more efficient. Is there any other way? Because it is quite clear that if you let some small schools and send more children into the same classes in some larger schools, you can be more efficient. But is this the model that the minister thinks the municipalities should use?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153700	Thank you. If you look at the analysis that the CEPOS has carried out of precisely school aggregations, you can see that it actually suggests that there is not much to be retrieved there. It is a model with which many municipalities have tried. However, since the school budget is largely made up of teacher's salaries, it is not certain that it is at least what that analysis indicates that it is possible to make a great deal of efficiency in this way. So what is interesting to know is what you spend money on, which is not about the professionals who are in schools. Because they're the ones who deliver the core task. They are the ones who stand out in the schools, the teachers, and work with the students. That is the core task. So what would be interesting if I were in a municipality would be looking at whether you can spend the money better compared to things that have nothing to do with the core task. There may of course be huge differences in how resources are spent in the local government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153753	Then it is Mrs Annette Lind who has her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153756	It is very difficult to get the Minister to be concrete. It is also very difficult to get the Minister to relate to the policy of the Liberal Alliance. It's kind of a talk around. When my colleague asks whether she can say precisely and specifically where it is that is to be saved, we would really like an answer to that. When the Minister says that it is not on the core task, which is teaching, where is the saving to be made? The Liberal Alliance wants 100,000 fewer people in the public sector. And that's how it's 16,000 according to government policy. So please address the government's policy with 16,000 fewer employees and with a growth of 0.3 per cent. Where is the specific saving to be made if it is not on the teaching itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153847	Now I'm not the city manager. I'm a minister. In other words, I am responsible for the overall framework of schools. What you do locally is you decide, and how much money you want to spend per. student, and how to use them. This is the possibility that exists in the municipalities and, as I said, we can see quite large differences between the municipalities. It is not up to me to describe exactly how to do that task. It's out in the municipalities. Nor is it usual for social democracy. As far as I know, you are also in favour of local self-government, that is, that you can make that local priority in terms of how to use resources. So I would just like to say, as a minister, that I believe that primary school is simply one of the most important tasks that people provide for taxpayers' money. And when you pay as much tax as we do in Denmark, you must expect that you can put your children in a high-quality school. So this is something that the municipalities must prioritise and make work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329153948	Thank you. Then we move on to Question 20, which is also what should we call it a political mixed double. It is certainly for the Minister of Education in one area, and on the other it is Mrs Annette Lind as the main questioner and Mr Lind as well. Erik Christensen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154006	Thank you. Will the Minister ensure that the government's government cuts will not mean less quality in primary school and fewer employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154016	I would like to start by stating that the government is not proposing cuts, but a 3% increase in public spending. annual. The government sets targets for the overall development of public expenditure, but the precise number of public employees is not controlled centrally. In the field of primary education, it is the municipalities which are best to determine the number of people employed with the qualifications deemed necessary within the given allocation framework. Of course, there is a certain correlation between budget resources and good education, but the context is far from 1:1. Expenditure per Member State pupils in the individual municipalities vary by factor 1 to 2, and this is of course due to the fact that there are different framework conditions, but even when you take that into account, there is still a very large difference between how much money the schools spend, and there is certainly no correlation between the schools that spend the most money and the schools that deliver particularly good results. This may indicate that quality and results are also dependent on the commitment and way to go to school of parents, teachers, managers and students. I would like to give the greatest possible nourishment to this commitment, and it must be by finding a good balance between tranquillity about the primary school, so that the changes in primary school reform are supported in the best possible way, while at the same time the government constantly assesses whether there is a need for individual adjustments as a follow-up to the experience of the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154140	The minister says that there should be no fewer public employees, but the fact is that it is the government that is tightening the screw. You tighten the screw so that there is a public growth of 0.3 per cent. If there is to be absolutely equal growth as there is now, you have to have a growth rate of 0.6%. It's calculated that it's going to be 16,000 fewer employees. Does the Minister recognise that growth in the public sector is 0.3%? Is it going to affect the number of primary school teachers and educators in primary school? I think you run away from responsibility when you just say that you pay tribute to municipal self-government. It is the Minister of Education, and it is the government that puts growth, and it is therefore tighter than what needs to be in relation to equal growth. So does the Minister acknowledge that this will affect the number of employees in primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154237	Of course, it's exciting with this very general financial discussion, which, you might say, falls a little outside of my resort area. However, I can say, as I said, that the government is not proposing cuts, but a 3% increase in public spending. Every year, and what I have been told is that under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, actual public employment fell by 5,000 people. I can take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154309	I've had that answer a lot of times before, and that's not true. In fact, in relation to demographic developments, there was an increase in public growth under the previous government. It is the case that if there are not fewer employees and the Minister does not think it is her area of responsibility to be able to answer whether there should be fewer employees, how will the Minister ensure that there are enough primary school teachers and that there are enough teachers in the primary school to carry out the tasks that will be in primary school in the years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154348	What is my responsibility is that, within the framework that has been given to us, with somewhat declining private growth and thus some revenue that could be better, the primary school can have the best possible quality in primary school. Danish parents pay a very high tax, from a European perspective, a very, very high tax on their income, and they must expect from the public to give priority to primary school over a great many other things. The priority must be But the core task, the children, the good teaching, is therefore one of the most important things to deliver out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154450	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154455	Thank you. I'd like to work a little further on the core tasks and efficiency issues. Under the previous question, the Minister said that if there are to be cuts in schools, it is important to focus on the core task, on education and on children. Can the Minister say anything about what they are spending time on in schools that are not the core task? What are the schools and teachers spending time on that is not the core task? I'm a little curious to get the Minister's assessment of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154529	I think it is very important to see it at a municipal level, because it is the municipalities that structure the financial framework of the schools and also their tasks. For example, it is very important that you in the municipality when you get a job and they have been given many new tasks in the school field; it must be said that you do not also put new tasks into school. With the reform of primary schools, a new framework has been created which must be provided, for example. more movement is provided, you have to get out of school and invite the school inside etc. There it is important that the municipality, while doing so, does not also invent a whole lot of municipal projects that come on top. It may well be very heavy to seize out there, that there is both a reform of primary school that needs to be implemented, while at the same time perhaps adding even more management tools or projects. This discussion between both economics and tasks takes place in the municipalities, and there are a great many municipalities that are able to balance it, but it is also an important task that the municipalities have to perform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154636	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154637	But what I can now point myself to is that the Minister believes that where there is potential in the Danish primary school there is where there are some municipal inventions I think that was the expression used by the Minister. It is therefore the efficiency potential that is out there in the municipalities when it comes to primary and lower secondary schools. It is therefore that if there are some municipal inventions, you have to scrap them, and then there are efficiency improvements, so there is the possibility to run the Danish primary school with fewer teachers. Is that the opinion of the Minister? Otherwise, I think that the Minister should use his last answer to become a little more specific than using the term municipal inventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154723	I just have to say that the questioner puts words in my mouth. I have not said that this is the only way to focus better on the core task. There are certainly many different ways to do this. There are major differences in how the municipalities prioritise the primary school, how they organise their tasks, how they organise their administrative layers, how they collaborate between schools. There are so many ways to do that. And I cannot judge how best to do this, but I can say that, in relation to all the tasks which the municipalities perform in all sorts of different areas, it is my view as Minister of Education that the school area, the primary school area, must be one of the most important areas in which a service must be provided, which is paid for by citizens and in which there is an obligation to deliver a high quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154814	Then that is the questioner, Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154816	Now I've been in primary school for a lot of years. I've also seen a lot of annual plans. Now it's cut to the bone when the teachers' preparation, teaching and meeting culture are written out at this annual level. So there aren't really, really many hours left. We have a minister who will not be concrete. We understand that this is the core task. There's not much time left for the teachers. So now we're gonna slim down the public sector. The minister says there should be no layoffs. What are some of the tasks that the minister thinks the municipalities should take out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154909	Now the rapporteur is talking about the teacher's working time. Frankly, I'm a little surprised. After all, teachers' working hours were laid down under the authority of the Social Democratic Government and it is there now. That should not be changed. This government doesn't think so. I am not assuming that the Social Democrats think so either. Anyway, the whole primary school area is all about a lot of other things. The entire municipal area is diverse and is about a number of different tasks. The task of performing the core task, the good teaching, is a priority that takes place in the municipalities, and you can see that there are many different ways of delivering it, depending on which municipality you are in, but also what school you are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329154955	Thank you to the Minister for Education and thank you to the author. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon Twenty hereby closed. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 21, addressed to the Minister for the Elderly by Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155011	Thank you. I now read out the question: what is the Minister's position on the new White Paper on enhanced inter-disciplinary work in the field of social education, and in what areas does the Minister believe that the White Paper can contribute positively to improving the performance of people with dementia?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155029	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag for her question. I think it is good and positive that social educators are helping to focus on how we give people with dementia and their relatives the best possible treatment and support. I have also noted that the Social Pedagogics have welcomed the National Dementia Action Plan 2025 very well, both in the Social Pedagogics' response from the autumn and in their White Paper, which has been published after we have agreed on an agreement on dementia among the parties in the Folketing. In the recently published White Paper, social educators stress the need for a holistic approach in which life can still be lived for both the individual and the relatives. This is very much in line with our common value base in the dementia action plan, which is precisely dignity, security, influence on your own life, respect for diversity and life, an individual holistic approach to treatment, care and care based on the human being behind the disease and meaningful activities and good experiences in everyday life. These are values that will serve as a benchmark for dementia efforts in the coming years. That is why I welcome the White Paper of social educators. For the more people who can draw in the same direction, the better chance is for us to get a dementia effort with the focus on the human being behind the disease for the benefit of both people with dementia and their relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155200	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We fully agree on the values. It's a deal we made together. But there is another kind of value at stake here, namely those that are about the municipalities' ability to have some offers, and this is, of course, related to the kind of values that are measured in crowns and ears, and what kind of economy one ensures that the municipalities have to carry out this task. There was a survey from Gallup you could read about it in Jyllands-Posten before Christmas. It shows that there is a yes, how can we say it nicely? a very different level in the municipalities when it comes to having an effort towards citizens who get dementia while they are still resident at home. A simple cut in it I can bring here: e.g. It's only 32%. In the case of municipalities offering social pedagogy support in the home, this study shows. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, in addition to all the right and important talk about having the right values when it comes to security and self-determination, etc., she also has a suggestion as to how we can ensure that no matter what municipality you have, there must be an adequate offer, which we can see that there is not today. And isn't that also related to the value in dollars and cents that the government is willing and willing to give to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155321	With the agreement on the 2016-2019 rate pool, the government and the rate pool parties agreed on a financial framework for the new national dementia action plan of 470 million. kr., and this is the first time that so much money has been set aside for the dementia area at once. That is why I have also noticed that, in their White Paper, for example, the social educators praise us for giving priority to this area, and I am certainly pleased with the funds and agreements and initiatives that have been set aside. In this way, the government and the pool parties have provided the municipalities and the regions with a good basis for boosting their efforts in the area of dementia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155406-2	So what I have to hear the Minister say here is that in addition to these 470 million. I am just as happy with the agreement as the Minister is, there should be no doubt that there will be no need to do any further. Or how am I supposed to hear the minister? In other words, does the Minister expect a boost of its own in the municipalities which today do not have a sufficient response to citizens affected by dementia while still living at home? That is one question. The second question is whether this dementia money does not fall into a much worse place when it comes on the backs of municipal savings, which will of course be the reality if we are to have the low growth in public expenditure which the government is setting up and which, of course, does not follow the trend in the number of elderly people. The Ministry of Finance says that very clearly. So one thing is: isn't it a little lame to point to some improvements in a dementia trade plan that will come on the back of savings in the municipalities? And the other thing is: does the Minister say that, in addition to the dementia trade plan we now have, there is no further need to ensure that all municipalities are included in relation to having a sufficient offer to citizens who are suffering dementia while still living at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155517	Let me just make it clear that caregivers and dementees must, of course, have the help they need in the future too. But then I must also say that I am here today as part of a government which gives priority to the elderly and, as I have said many times before, we will of course follow developments closely and then act accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155543	I think that was neither really a bird nor a fish in relation to what I asked, but I can at least say that the Minister himself has nothing further along the way, either following this Gallup survey or the White Paper from the Socialists. However, I will now stick to that agenda, because I believe that we are facing a reality where we are going to have more and more elderly people who do not feel older but are suffering from dementia and who cannot see themselves in the offers that are currently being made by the municipalities, which are very often at care centres, activity centres or day centres for which the elderly are mainly being searched. Now my time went by without reaching the question, but let me just ask the Minister something that the report also points out: does the Minister have a comment on this with the fact that we are going to have an increasing number of elderly people who feel younger and do not fit in with the traditional care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155641-2	I therefore believe that we should be careful about this by interpreting the demographic trait so that there is a one-to-one relationship between several elderly people and the cost of the elderly. Several older people cannot be mechanically converted into specific expenditures. In other words, the increase in the number of elderly people will not necessarily require a corresponding increase in the cost of the elderly. But I am glad that the municipalities are constantly improving their efforts, for example. through better organisation and with the new welfare technology, and then there has also been increased focus on rehabilitation. We must also say that the health status of the elderly has improved, so that their care needs have been reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155722	Thank you. That concludes Question 21. We shall proceed to Question 22, which is also addressed to the Minister for the Elderly by Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155729	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155732	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister believe that there is sufficient focus today on interdisciplinary care for people with dementia?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155739	Thank you, too, to the author of this question. I would like to start by saying that, for me, interdisciplinaryism is absolutely necessary in order to ensure good and dignified care for people with dementia. We have to learn from each other, and different skills can contribute differently. So I fully agree with the social educators when they say that no profession can solve the tasks in the field of dementia alone. That is why I am also pleased that, with the dementia action plan, among other things. ensure that we have national recommendations for optimal courses across professional and sector sectors, because it is of course important that care is linked and that the different types of professional can work well together. At the same time, with the dementia action plan, we also ensure a greater spread of dementia travel teams, which go out and teach at nursing homes, and here the target group is precisely all the many professional skills that work with people with dementia in their daily lives. One of the elements of the teaching provided by the Dementia Travel Teams is the so-called Resident Conference. Here the various professional skills involved in caring for people with dementia are brought together, for example, to prevent outgoing behaviour. That is why I am pleased that with the dementia action plan we have ensured that even more can benefit from the dementia mission teams.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329155904	Thank you to the Minister for that reply. What is the Minister's position on the issue, which is one of these. The White Paper refers to what is known as 'flatter problems', i.e. the fact that citizens are falling between chairs? They describe how, when dementia strikes at a younger age, i.e. while you are relatively young, you are typically at home with your family, and they describe in the White Paper here how these families do not, as a starting point, need care and care in the traditional health care sense. They need social support to help them to create an overview and structure of their everyday lives and to process the mental and emotional changes in relations that dementia causes. I mean, the fact that it is a disease in which you have different needs, depending on where you are and where you are in your life, poses a danger of being lost between the chairs; between the social system and the more health-care system. But what does the Minister think about the problems of the cuts, which are otherwise so well known from elsewhere in our systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160012	I think it is very important that we see these things, and I also think that there is a focus on out there, that we just need to find out how to ensure that there are no people who fall between the municipal system and the health care in hospitals and are suddenly lost. There will be a focus on that, and I am very, very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160035	But that is not really what I meant, nor is it how I read the White Paper, so that it is at the intersection between the regional hospital system and the investigation and treatment there and then care and care. But it is rather within the municipality, namely the social action in the municipality and the health care effort. So that's where you point to an incision. What is the Minister thinking there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160056	Well, I am confident that the individual managers around the nursing homes understand, of course, what professional employees are required to live up to, that the individual resident with dementia gets the care and care he or she needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160115	But I think the Minister is talking about a completely different target group than the one I'm trying to talk about. These are the ones I described as the elderly who feel a little younger. I think that Steen Hasselbalch, who is the chief physician in dementias, describes the fact that the local authorities' daily offers tend to be pedittoral and located in nursing homes, and that they hit next to this group of elderly people who thus feel younger. I think we're gonna get more of those. So I just want to ask. If the Minister is not dealing with this group at all, even if it is the one I am asking about, is it because the government believes that everything is working very well here, even though a new Gallup study shows that there is a great deal of variation in the offers made by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160153	I am convinced that the individual municipalities will look at what matters, and that is precisely the holistic approach. There we also use the social sciences. The history of life is widespread in so many places where one knows precisely that it is the individual that we have to look into, that is, which life one has lived before and what is significant for that person. And then there are plenty of places where reminiscent is used, so looking back at life that has been lived and what is significant. And you use sensory impressions. I've been out watching it myself. I think that is the focus, and I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160230	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly, and thank you to the author. That concludes the question. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160245	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160300	Social democracy supports both the 24-year rule and the attachment requirement. It is the backbone of Danish foreign policy and the best protection against arranged marriages and for many new residence permits. We have also supported the 28-year rule from the outset, and since the 26-year rule, which allowed some citizens to be exempted from this attachment requirement. All this has worked quite well. We have ensured that the vast majority of foreign dancers have been able to come home with their families if they wanted to, without opening up to the abuse of family reunification rules that I think we saw earlier. Unfortunately, however, we must now recognise that the European Court of Human Rights believes that our rules discriminate against Danish citizens. Against this background, the government has chosen to comply with the judgment and thus administer Danish legislation without this exception, the 26-year rule. It's logical. At the same time, it is logical that the rule should now be abolished in Danish legislation. We support this on the part of the Social Democrats, and we look forward to the legislative process, perhaps not so much of this bill, but more of what will come shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160410	There are no requests for short remarks, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160421	Thank you. In our view, this bill in the Danish People's Party is a blow to Denmark and the Danes because it clearly emphasises that conventions and so-called human rights undermine the nation state. That an international court can prohibit Denmark from taking special account of its own citizens is grotesque and quite unheard of in our view, and the government should take that up when Denmark holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe, that is to say that it is a problem and something one wants to discuss. And the question is, will the government take that up? The Danish People's Party cannot vote in favour of a law and therefore in favour of a human rights judgment which, in our view, is undemocratic and which undermines the Danish people and the Danish people. We can't, and we won't. Our loyalty lies with the Danish people, not with supranational bodies. Our loyalty lies with the Danes who have benefited from the positive discrimination granted to them by Danish legislation, and we therefore reject the verdict and the bill, and we call on the rest of the Danish Parliament to do the same. A case-law has developed which is in every way obscene and unreasonable. The international conventions and the interpretation of these require Denmark to grant positive treatment to refugees when they want to bring their families to Denmark, while at the same time prohibiting Denmark from granting positive treatment to Danes who want to bring their families to Denmark, that is to say to their own country. It is indecent that the government and the rest of the Folketing simply support case law, conventions and legislation which clearly and clearly discriminates against Danes and which grants special rights to foreigners and their families. Denmark is for Danes. Danish legislation must be made for the benefit of Danes. And if conventions forbid us elected representatives to legislate in favour of our own, then these conventions must be rejected, amended or reinterpreted. When human rights are used to deprive the Danes of rights that this Parliament has granted them, which we have granted to our own countrymen, then it should be very seriously considered to take up a fight with so-called human rights. Against this background, I must inform you that the Danish People's Party will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160633	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160637	Sir. Martin Henriksen said that the judgment meant that Danish citizens were not taken into account. - Sir... Martin Henriksen didn't elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160652	The reason why we have had the 26-year rule and basically still have it, although we do not manage after it, is that one wants to take account of Danes who, for example, have been out in the big world, have found love and want to return to Denmark. They have in some cases found it difficult to meet the requirement of affiliation, and the 26-year rule has, after all, exempted them from the requirement of affiliation. It has been in an attempt to accommodate the Danes, who have also been out in the big world, and make it a little easier for them to come back to Denmark with their foreign spouses. There, we in the Danish People's Party believe that if a majority in the Danish Parliament wants to make more relaxed rules for Danes and tighter rules for all sorts of others, we are in our right to do so. We do not think that the European Court of Human Rights should interfere in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160732	Is it, sir? Martin Henriksen believes that these are Danish citizens, because what the verdict does is surely to take account of Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160741	I certainly don't see that the verdict does. In my opinion, the judgment does exactly the opposite. The 26-year rule, which used to be a 28-year rule, is now in fact the 28-year rule that has been overruled; it is not the 26-year rule that was, after all, an attempt to take account of the Danes who have been out and who find it difficult to meet the attachment requirement. That, then, is what we are no longer allowed to do in this Parliament. That is why, following this bill, there is another legislative proposal which, so to speak, seeks to restore some of what the European Court of Human Rights has taken from Danish citizens. We find it deeply unreasonable that the court should interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160816	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next one on the platform is sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160826	I see no reason to recapitulate the bill. But I want to say that I think it is really a pity that we have to implement this bill. After all, it was us who introduced the 28-year rule and later the 26-year rule. It was precisely to give a helping hand to the many foreign dancers who are around the world who would like to move home to Denmark with a spouse. The fact that the government has nevertheless put forward this proposal to repeal the rule is due to the fact that last year the 26-year rule was condemned to be in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. According to the Court, the rule is an expression of discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, and thus the rule is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, says the Court. That judgment has been taken note of by the government, and that is why we are now proposing to abolish the 26-year rule. But then I am glad that the next legislative proposal we are going to deal with is for a scheme that will otherwise try to give a helping hand to foreign dancers who move home. According to the next bill, a foreigner with a job offer included in the positive list or the payment scheme will be able to bring the family to Denmark under the same conditions as today for foreign workers with similar job offers. So, in the light of the following draft law, we are voting for the abolition of the 26-year rule, as described here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160953	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329160957	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like the rapporteur to elaborate on the reasons why the 26-year rule has been abolished, but to maintain the obligation of affiliation and not to do the reverse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161013	As I understand it, it is a direct result of a decision by the Court of Human Rights in a case known as the Biao case, and it is on that basis that we are now abolishing the 26-year rule. It was we who introduced the 26-year rule, so it is not our own idea that we should now abolish it again. This is something we are doing in order to correct the situation with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161037	Yes, I understand that, but it is of course a question of not being equal to all citizens, what to say. And what you could do if you abolished the 26-year rule I agree that it is also a debate on the next proposal that was also to abolish the affiliation rule. And it may well be that we have to take the debate under the next bill... that's quite okay. With me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161058	That's fine, then we'll take it under the next proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161105	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161112	On 24 May 2016, the Danish State was convicted of indirect discrimination on the basis of ethnicity. The judgment was handed down by the European Court of Human Rights in Biao v Denmark. The Biao judgment is an expression of the fact that we in Europe have a well-functioning legal system that monitors the human rights that we ourselves have chosen to sign. Unfortunately, however, it is also a legal system which takes a very long time to support the citizens in cases where there are grounds for criticising the states. The 26-year rule or 28-year rule, which was rejected by the Court, was introduced as far back as 2003. The Land Court ruled in the Biao case in 2007, the Supreme Court in 2010, and then in May 2016 the final decision came from the Strasbourg Court. By that time the case had lost its practical significance for the Danish citizen Mr. Biao. He had long since chosen to establish himself in Sweden, where, according to the information, he is well and where his children have grown up with the Swedish language and are not interested in moving to Denmark. But the judgment will have consequences for many other than the Biao family. If the 26-year rule is indirect discrimination on the basis of discrimination, it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, and Denmark is, of course, obliged to eliminate discrimination. There are several ways to do that. One can abolish the 26-year rule itself, i.e. the rule that one must have been a Danish national for 26 years in order to no longer be subject to the affiliation requirement, or one can abolish the rule from which the 26-year rule constitutes an exception, i.e. the attachment requirement. The government has chosen the first with the consequence that a large group of people who have been Danish citizens since birth are now affected by the requirement of affiliation from which they have otherwise been exempted. It has therefore been decided to eliminate discrimination by making it more difficult for all Danish citizens to be allowed to live here in Denmark with a foreign husband or wife. The starting point in future will be that a Danish citizen who, during a long stay abroad, finds a spouse abroad will be prevented from taking him or her to Denmark to live here, because the total association of the couple will be greatest to the spouse's country of origin. For the Danish citizen has lived in the spouse's country for some time, while the spouse has typically never lived in Denmark. It will hit a lot of people hard. From the hearing from Danes Worldwide, we know that approx. Sixty thousand Danish citizens are permanently abroad outside the EU. Of course, not everyone marries a foreigner, but it is a quite large group of people who may be affected by the tightening that the abolition of the 26-year rule entails. The Enhedslisten believes, of course, that Denmark is obliged to correct the indirect discrimination that the 26-year rule is an expression of, but we believe that this bill is going the wrong way. We have the basic view that the state should not decide who Danish citizens should marry, and today the rules for family reunification are so strict that very many Danish citizens are in practice prevented from marrying a foreigner, at least if they want to live together in Denmark. With this change of law, another trip wire will be tightened out, and even more Danes will be prevented from living in their own country. It's Enhedslisten against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161502	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161512	Thank you. This proposal abolishes the 26-year rule, allowing easier access to family reunification for people who had either been Danish citizens for 26 years or who had been raised in Denmark and had lived here for 26 years. When this derogation is abolished, everyone will, as a rule, have to comply with the attachment requirement, unless special consideration is given to the unity of the family. The background is just as sad as it is known, namely that Denmark has received a verdict against itself at the European Court of Human Rights. It is a pity to close the system, but the judgment will of course have to be taken into account and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161558	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161617	Thank you. We are dealing first with the proposal for a law amending the law on aliens concerning the abolition of the 26-year rule in cases of consensual marriage. And we do so, as we have also heard from the previous rapporteurs who have been on the platform, on the basis that the European Court of Human Rights has stated that it was contrary to equal treatment to give some Danish citizens greater opportunity to live and reside in Denmark and have family reunification. Isolatedly, of course, I think it is very positive that the government is following up the verdict. We are obliged to do so. It is also a good thing that we should finally clarify the legal situation in this area, although I think it is possible to criticise the fact that this has not happened more quickly in that the judgment has had effect from the time it was handed down. In the alternative, however, we would have liked to see the government put an end to discrimination against Danish citizens by completely removing the requirement of affiliation in relation to Danish nationals and not by allowing it to follow up the bill we are about to debate, where a new form of discrimination is introduced against Danish nationals, which is linked to the positive list in relation to education and annual income. This is going to replace this bill, L 162, but of course I will come back to that in my next speech. That is why we are very critical of the way in which the judgment has been dealt with and we will wait until we have been through the committee procedure to adopt a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161809	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329161822	Thank you. In the Radical Left, of course, we are also concerned with following the judgments that come from the European Court of Human Rights, but which really, a great many of the consultation answers to these two legislative proposals we are dealing with today, specifically here L 162 concludes, it could have been hoped that this, with the 26-year rule actually leading to discrimination, would mean removing the basis for that discrimination. The basis for this discrimination is, of course, the attachment requirement, as the many organisations point out. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur drew attention to Danes Worldwide, who in their hearing answers specify how many Danish citizens who were born and raised and lived in Denmark and go out into the world and fall in love, this will hit. Basically, it is and has been the position of the Radical Left that the state should not interfere with who you fall in love with, who you marry. I think that the liberal view of us is quite based on this question. You have to be able to marry whoever you want and live in your own country if you can support yourself without the state interfering. The attachment requirement stands in the way of that. This prevents Danes from marrying whoever they want and living in their own country. There is something fundamentally wrong from our point of view. We are therefore also sorry that the conclusion of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which fell last year on my birthday, is that, no matter how long they have been in Denmark since they were born, everyone must now be discriminated against with an attachment requirement in relation to whom they will marry. In the past, you could at least grow out of it or have the opportunity. That is why we are opposed to the conclusion by the government of the judgment and therefore against the legislative proposal that has been put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162133	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next honourable speaker is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162150	As others have pointed out, this bill is, of course, a consequence of a judgment of the Court of Human Rights and, of course, Denmark must comply with those judgments. It is absolutely essential that we have a human rights system here in Europe and that we also have a court to ensure that the Convention is respected. There has been discrimination, and that is what the government is reacting to. The bill means quite a lot to many people. There are many who today have the opportunity to take their spouse to Denmark because of the 26-year rule and who now no longer have the opportunity and are therefore cut off from it. Many of them will probably settle in Sweden instead, as has happened. Even more will do it. And we are not in favour of this deterioration for those people. We can say that you have reacted by making it all bad for everyone. You could also have reacted in another way, that is, by everyone getting a little less bad. But the government did not want to react to the judgment of the Court of Human Rights. So we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162321	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162327	With the bill, we follow up on the judgment of the Court of Human Rights. The judgment has fallen, and we are, of course, following the conclusion of the court. Having said that, we must also recognise that the previous 28-year rule, which was changed to a 26-year rule, was an excellent rule. I think it's a good idea to get upset about the verdict. The 26-year rule had the clear advantage that we could exempt Danish nationals who wanted family reunification from the requirement of affiliation if the resident spouse had had Danish citizenship for at least 26 years. The judgment is an expression of the general and much greater problem, namely that the European Court of Human Rights tends to confuse politics and law. They're interfering in too much. As can also be seen from the consultation answers, this poses a number of problems for foreign dancers with a foreign spouse. They will have difficulty in bringing together the family in Denmark in the future, and this will cause problems for companies that will find it harder to attract highly qualified foreign dancers. For this reason, it is also good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has tabled L 162 and L 163 together. Overall, it is good that we have the two legislative proposals at the same time. This ensures that strict immigration policies go hand in hand with new opportunities for those who will and can contribute to Denmark. In this context, it offers new opportunities for foreign dancers with certain competences that would like to work in Denmark and bring the family together here. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162515	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162525	Thank you for your contributions. As has already been said, the purpose of the bill is to follow up the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the Biao case of May 2016. The judgment concerns the so-called 28-year rule or what has today been changed to a 26-year rule. That rule is an exception to the attachment requirement normally imposed in cases of spouse reunification. In the judgment, as you know, a majority of the court overruled the 28-year rule. More precisely, the majority considered the rule to be an expression of indirect discrimination on the basis of ethnicity. As a consequence of the judgment, Denmark is legally obliged to remove the discriminatory element. The draft law thus removes the discriminatory element, i.e.: 26-year rule, in the applicable provision of the Aliens Act on the attachment requirement. The proposal to repeal the 26-year rule implies that the requirement of affiliation must then normally be fulfilled in all cases of spouse reunification. This is also the case in cases where the resident spouse or partner has had Danish citizenship for at least 26 years. This means that it is usually a condition for marriage in Denmark that the total association of spouses with Denmark is greater than their total association with another country. However, very specific reasons may result in the obligation not being imposed. The proposed amendment of the law is in line with the interpretation of which the Parliamentary Foreigners, Integrations and Housing Committee was informed by letter of 27 July 2016. This shows, among other things, that: of this letter that, after the Biao judgment, it is now described as uncertain what is the current state of law until new legislation is introduced, but also that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice consider that there is much evidence that the correct solution to have here is to disregard the 26-year rule. This is the interpretation currently administered by the Foreign Affairs Council and, as a little simplified, legalized if the bill is adopted. In some of the consultation responses received, the consultation parties expressed concern about the impact of the bill on the access of foreign Danes to their foreign family to Denmark. And as the draft law also shows, the proposal to repeal the 26-year rule may have consequences for the possibility of family reunification in Denmark, among others. Danish citizens who settle abroad for a longer period and then start a family abroad. When it becomes more difficult for foreign dancers to return home with their families, it will be able to prevent them from choosing Denmark as a working country. The government wants Denmark to be an attractive country of work, but of course this presupposes that workers can easily and flexibly come here with their families. This applies both to foreign workers and to Danes returning home. In order to ensure that it is attractive for highly qualified foreign dancers to take up work, at the same time as the legislative proposal to repeal the 26-year rule, I have put forward a draft law on the new residence scheme for accompanying families of foreign dancers with certain employment qualifications. But we will come back to that in a moment, because this is a legislative proposal which we will have to deal with here afterwards. In the view of the government, the two legislative proposals together constitute a sensible package. We maintain a strict policy in the area of family reunification, while improving opportunities to attract highly qualified foreign dancers to Denmark. Finally, it is only left to thank for the relatively broad support for the draft law here, and then I look forward to further consideration, and not least for the consideration of the next legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162955	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329162959	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party find it very unfortunate that the European Court of Human Rights should come in and interfere in Danish foreign policy in this way. So I would like to ask whether the Minister does not also think that it is a pity not to say vertically wrong that in this way we are going in and dictating Denmark that we should not actually take special account of our own citizens. That is, of course, what has been the intention of the legislation. And I think that the countries themselves must decide whether or not to take special account of their own citizens. That's one part. The second part is that, since Denmark holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe, we will have it later this year, the Danish Government could not take up this issue as a problem and discuss it with the other countries and hear whether they agree with Denmark that it should be the case that each country should of course grant special rights to its own citizens if there is a majority in the parliament of the country which believes that it is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163054	First, on the question of whether I think this is a bad judgment. Well, it was against Denmark, and that was obviously not what we wanted, and that is why we are applauding it too, you might say, with the next bill that we are going to discuss. So, yes, I think it was a pity, and I already made that clear on the day the verdict was published. Then there is the question of whether we should take it up when we now have the Presidency of the Council of Europe. I can say so much that the government is currently discussing with itself exactly how we approach the Presidency and what issues we have to raise. After all, it is a question of raising the right issues and not the number of subjects, because it is really about trying to see how we can get the most out of that Presidency. So I can't say much about that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163156	Of course, it is quite all right for the government to discuss it with itself. In any case, I would like to call for this to be taken as a point. I understand that the government is working on some points which are about how to make things easier, for example. to expel criminal foreigners and tighten up the rules on foreigners against foreigners who wish to enter Denmark and whom we wish to keep out for various reasons. These are quite right points, and there is support from the Danish People's Party to address those points. But I also think it is relevant and it may be based on this case, or it may be a general discussion to look at whether it is not reasonable enough that each Member State, the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, is allowed to adopt rules that benefit their own nationals. That is not an unreasonable view, so I think that there will be sensitivity to it if Denmark gives that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163245	That was good advice from the Danish People's Party, and this kind of advice is always welcome. But just to underline it again, that is to say the judgment here was against Denmark, and that is why it is obviously not a desirable judgment for us, but we have to correct it, that is the way it is. Of course we do, and then it is that the next proposal will patch things up a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163312	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163316	I think you should sign when parties make policy development, and the policy of the Left has for a long time been to attract highly qualified foreigners to Denmark. This has been written down in immensely many contexts. But now I understand that the policy has been developed to attract highly qualified foreign dancers to Denmark, that is to say, where you are particularly welcome in Denmark, if you are highly qualified, and that is to say. well paid in this context, and those who are not highly paid must take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163354	After all, the system of amounts has just been set up. It was, after all, an arrangement which the majority of the Danish Parliament was in favour of setting up. It was bypassing the governing parties, but with votes from the Enhedslisten, so yes, it is perhaps a discussion that Enhedslisten should take more with himself than with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163418	It is not a question of Danes. So, the starting point for me is that all Danes are welcome, that all Danes who are Danish citizens are naturally welcome in their native country. The arrangement to which the Minister refers is about something quite different, but what the Minister is saying is that all Danes who were born in Denmark and have Danish citizenship are not equally welcome in Denmark. Some people are more concerned than others, and that depends on income. We'll deal with that in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163447	That is exactly what I was thinking about a tiny bit here, because it will have consequences in the next legislative proposal, and my advice to the Enhedslisten will only be that you think your policy through. There is no point in one day holding the red flag high and saying that we must now raise the amount system without thinking that it can have consequences elsewhere. So it's Enhedslisten himself who's helped create this situation. So just give us some advice on Enhedslisten: Try to think your policy through a bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163519	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163536	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163554	Thank you. Today's two bills are important and long awaited. Since the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in May 2016, there have been justified doubts about the future of the rules on spouse reunification. Social democracy supports both the 24-year rule and the attachment requirement. It is the backbone of Danish foreign policy and the best protection against arranged marriages and for many new residence permits. We have also always supported the 28-year rule and since the 26-year rule, which allowed some citizens to be exempted from the affiliation requirement. All of this worked very well, but unfortunately we have to acknowledge that the court believes that our rules discriminate against Danish citizens. On this basis, the government has chosen to comply with the judgment and thus administer Danish legislation without this exception, the 26-year rule. I think it has been clear to everyone that it could not go on like this, and we have therefore waited in anticipation of how the government would change the law on foreigners and adapt the Danish rules. Now we can understand that the government has chosen to invent a completely new system of residence permits, a model that, to put it mildly, is an alien hybrid. The bill allows spouses of foreign dancers to be exempted from the attachment requirement if their Danish spouse either has a higher education which is in demand in Denmark, or has a promise on a job for more than DKr 408,000. a year. Social democracy can support the proposal because everything else equal is an improvement in the existing legal situation, but we want to make two comments on the legislative proposal. First of all, this strange residence scheme favours spouses to well-paid and well-trained Danes. It's not durable. How can it be contrary to human rights to discriminate against Danish citizens on the basis of their seniority as Danes, but not on the basis of their education. That's weird. I can read from the draft law that the Ministry believes that there are no legal problems with it in relation to the conventions. I am not so sure about that, and we have therefore asked the lawyers of the Danish Parliament for their opinion. The Social Democratic Party believes that it is wrong to link the requirements for the residence permit in this way to the level of education of the Danes or their earnings; the demands should then be placed on the alien's ability to integrate. Secondly, therefore, the Social Democrats want to make integration requirements for the foreign spouse, and these must be requirements similar to those we normally make for spouses who want to be brought together in Denmark. It is about passing a simple Danish exam within the first 6 months and about having had at least one visa stay in Denmark before moving here. It must also be important that the foreign spouses of foreign dancers have the opportunity to be integrated into Danish society. With these comments, we support the proposal, but stress that we would have preferred the government, rather than making this curious hybrid, which makes a difference between craftsmen and academics, to live up to its own commitment from the government to a global change in the rules of marriage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163849	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The rapporteur has been violated. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329163902	Thank you. On the part of the Danish People's Party, since the situation is as it is, we think it is an OK. proposal. So we are in favour of the Danish People's Party. However, we need to clarify some issues in committee before we finally say that we are pressing the green buttons. We will, among other things. I would like to know how many people can be expected to take advantage of the new rules. We think it is very sensible if we can get an overview of it. We shall also table a number of amendments, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned some amendments. Among other things: We believe that demands should be made on the external spouse, and this can be done, for example. be a Danish requirement, it may also be a requirement that you have been visiting Denmark in the past, and it may also be that you should meet the requirement for guaranteeing that applies in other family reunification cases, and even if that is not what this proposal is all about, it is still a little what it is all about. After all, we have noticed that there are a number of requirements that we no longer have to meet. Today, the maximum limit for when to bring a child to Denmark is 15 years old, and in the proposal it is up to 18 years old. Nor does the 24-year rule apply in these cases, as I mentioned just now, nor does the Danish requirement for those who come from outside apply in these cases. So there are some things that we think one can look at and make some integration-relevant demands that make one have an expectation that the people who have married a Danish citizen and who come to Denmark on this scheme also have some prerequisites for being integrated into and falling to here in Danish society. Then we also want to change the rules for foreigners and their spouses, that is to say those foreigners who avail themselves of the occupational schemes, and this bill is, of course, linked to an occupational scheme which, as such, applies only to foreigners. But now that the bill is linked to that arrangement, we would also like to announce that we believe that there is a need to make demands on foreign spouses, which accompany a foreigner who addresses some of the occupational schemes that exist and that, in our view, these foreigners should also meet with more requirements, and that can be done, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a Danish requirement, and it may also be a requirement for guarantees, but these are some of the things we raise in committee. And that must be the comments from that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164122	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164126	I would just like to ask the Danish People's Party what the position of the Danish People's Party is, that is, that there are people, Danish citizens who retire after having been abroad for a period of time, and who then want to return with their foreign spouse, they may have worked in a Danish company abroad for a shorter or longer period of time and want to return to their grandchildren and return home to their country of birth, which in practice is excluded from returning home. What is the position of the Danish People's Party on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164202	There is no reason to hide the fact that, on the part of the Danish People's Party, we think that this is a boring situation that we are in now, after the European Court of Human Rights has made its decision, that is, the so-called Biaodom. But that's where we stand. The European Convention on Human Rights has been used to slap Denmark in the head, and this has meant that there are some Danes, including Danish pensioners, who are abroad, who are deprived of rights that they would otherwise have, and that is of course regrettable. But that is one of the things that I hope will be able to do, that other parties in this Parliament will consider whether the human rights convention and the practice in this area have not become too rigid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164242	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164244	After all, it is not the Convention on Human Rights that forces us to make legislation that prevents a pensioner who is a Danish citizen born and raised in Denmark from going to school, having taken his education and may have worked and paid taxes in Denmark for many years, after a period of employment in a Danish company abroad, from returning to Denmark with his spouse. This is not something that the European Court of Human Rights has decided. That is something that lies in this bill, and that is why I am asking Mr. President. Martin Henriksen, about Mr. Martin Henriksen wants to take a look at it. Because we can do that completely free.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164328	After all, it is the European Court of Human Rights that makes it necessary to make this amendment of law, and of course also that the Folketing and the government simply choose to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. If you had not done so, you would have retained some special rights for Danish citizens. So it is, of course, the European Court of Human Rights that means that we in this Parliament are prevented from doing what we actually think is reasonable, namely granting special rights to Danish citizens, and I must be the first to regret that. However, I hope that Enhedslisten will use this as an opportunity to reconsider their unconditional support for the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164407	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164418	Denmark is not served by highly educated Danes opting out of Denmark when they end their stay abroad. This is especially true for foreign dancers who want to come home to Denmark and bring the family with them. That is why, as I said before, I think it is really a pity that we have to abolish the 26-year rule, but instead we are now proposing to change the rules so that foreign dancers have better opportunities to bring their families to Denmark. After the 26-year rule was overruled last year, a large group of skilled foreign dancers risk getting caught when they want to return home and bring the family with them, and that is not fair. That is why the government is proposing a new residence scheme, inspired by the system of amounts and the positive list. This is really sensible, because Danes who have lived abroad for some time must of course have the best possible conditions to get home. It's only fair. At the same time, however, I would like to say that I find it a little regrettable that the Social Democrats and the DF have taken the lead in raising the amount of money. Because that means directly that we are increasing social inequality, because only people earn more than a certain amount of money can benefit from this scheme, and I think that is just a pity. However, I would like to say that, overall, I welcome the fact that the government is now going to introduce the new residence scheme. It is certainly a patch on the wound in relation to the abolition of the 26-year rule and a step in the right direction, as we have not been able to get as many people along as we would like. But this is as good as we can do, especially now that the amount system is as it is, and on that basis I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164606	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164609	I also think that Mr. Marcus Knuth has to deal with the very common picture that we will see, that is, that there are people born and raised in Denmark who have taken an education and work in Denmark, who then acquire some qualifications and are posted to a leading position in a foreign company, and they may get married there, retire and then want to return home to their grandchildren and their other families in Denmark, who are, of course, disadvantaged. What is it that makes that group hit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164649	As I remember, the rapporteur himself helped to increase the amount of money in the system, thereby creating a social inequality. The way we wanted it to be was that we could just keep the 26-year rule, which was a really, really nice arrangement. We cannot do that, but by going in and raising the amount in the amount scheme, the rapporteur's party is hitting very, very many Danes who do not get over this amount. So the rapporteur is, of course, asking a question which perhaps the rapporteur should instead ask himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164721	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164722	This has nothing to do with the limit, because pensioners earn nothing. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Marcus Knuth knows. If you are a pensioner, you do not have a salary income. You may have an own pension and you may have 2 million, 3 million, 5 million. or 10 million kr. the account that you are carrying, and that has nothing to do with any limit on the amount, no more than what the Minister said before. So that is why I am asking about the group called pensioners: what about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164756	That has something to do with the limit. Firstly, it is not true that all pensioners do not earn anything. Secondly, by increasing the amount in the system of amounts, a social inequality is created by the fact that only people earn above a certain level, and so it could also be pensioners who earn something to come here. So the rapporteur has helped indirectly to create a social inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164816	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164818	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question I raised in the previous draft law. In other words, you could choose to remove the attachment requirement altogether. Why has it not been chosen? And what is the deeper reasoning behind the fact that citizens who have been here for more than 26 years now also retain the obligation to be associated in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164846	Well, there are two very simple answers to that. In relation to the judgment that was given, it is the case that it does not look at the attachment requirement. But we want there to be an attachment requirement, because if you remove it, you just open the doors wide open, and then everyone can pull a spouse here who has no connection with Denmark in any way. And that would be both harmful to Danish culture, to Denmark and to the entire integration process. We believe that there must be requirements that must be met if you want your spouse to do so. Those demands are so little distorted by the fact that the 26-year rule must be abolished, but what we have here is the best we can do in the light of the judgment that has fallen in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164926	I hear what the rapporteur says and I do not agree, but that is the way it is. I would really like to ask you about pensioners, because as I read the bill, it is the case that you can come back as a foreign dancer if you, by the way, meet these limits and so on. and job content if you are offered a job. And I guess you're not a pensioner, or how is that supposed to be interpreted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329164957-2	No, but as I said, the system with the 26-year rule worked really, really well, and we have to remove that. So if we are not to go in and make the discrimination that the Court of Human Rights thinks we are doing by applying the 26-year rule, then we have to find a system where everyone is just as to say, and the system that is now best suited is to equate Danes with foreigners who come to Denmark to get work. And that is why it is the same system, it is the same rules as the limit and the positive list that already exists for foreigners. It's a one-to-one match compared to the existing system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165033	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165035	Thank you. I thought it was just fat enough that Mr. Marcus Knuth blamed the Danish People's Party and, as such, also other parties in here or credited that an amount limit is now being set in relation to Danes who want to come home. So, what the Danish People's Party and the Left had to vote for, and where the government and the Left did not agree, was a proposal to raise the threshold for foreigners. Now the government is proposing to set an amount limit for Danes. It is the government's proposal that we are discussing today. So I don't think so, sir. Marcus Knuth said right there was perfectly reasonable. If sir... Marcus Knuth acknowledges that this is a patchy solution, and that's why not go against the human rights system that the government is otherwise in favour of? Because the reason why we are here today and are dealing with these proposals is that the system of which the Left is a supporter has required Denmark to do something which is unfavorable for Danish citizens. That's why we're in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165135	I would say that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is aware that it is rare for me to criticise the Danish People's Party when it comes to the area of foreigners. But exactly when it comes to the part of the immigration policy that we want to be able to attract skilled professional foreigners who come to Denmark to contribute, we do not look at it the same way. And, as I said before to Mrs Josephine Fock, we need to have a system that is the same for everyone, because we cannot discriminate. That's why the two systems are the same, and that's why I think it's a shame that when you raise the threshold for foreigners, you also indirectly hit the Danes who are abroad dancers and who, through this system, want to go home to Denmark and bring the family with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165217	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165218	But it is the government that is proposing to introduce a limit for Danes returning home. So it is not the Danish People's Party or other parties in the Danish Parliament that it is the government. Together with the Social Democratic Party, with the Socialist People's Party and with the Enhedslisten, we have proposed and agreed that there is an amount limit for foreigners, not for Danes. So the government is proposing one for Danes. This is a mess, which is why I would just like to know if the Left would not like to reconsider its support for the human rights system that is throwing Denmark into this mess. Why do the Left and the Government support a system which repeatedly makes decisions and imposes different things on Denmark, which goes against the party line and contrary to what the Left believes is in Danish interest? Should we not put Danish interests above an old, outdated system which adopts judgments which are unfavorable to Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165310	Well, I think the Minister replied very well to that earlier when the Minister said that the government said that it would like to look at parts of the conventions and look at what is contemporary and so on, also in relation to what the rapporteur describes here. But as long as we are part of the system we are now part of here, we cannot discriminate. If we could, there was no reason to abolish the 26-year rule. And that is precisely why the system that applies to Danes and what applies to foreigners must be the same, otherwise, as I said, we could only have retained the 26-year rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165346	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165347	Thank you. I would also like to start by arresting it with the fact that the Social Democratic Party and other parties in this Parliament are complicit in the introduction of a limit for Danes. What we have decided outside the government is that the threshold for foreigners should be raised with the aim of avoiding foreigners coming to Denmark and working for too low wages. That is exactly the opposite of what the rapporteur of the Left and, incidentally, the Minister said just now from the platform. So if there are some who follow out there, I would just like to say that it is not the Social Democrats or anyone else who has proposed that an amount limit be introduced for Danes. It's the government that's tabled this bill. But the reason I have taken the floor is because I would like to hear what the Left is thinking about the Social Democrats' proposal to add two additional things to this bill, two requirements for the foreign spouses to be brought together in Denmark. One is that within the first 6 months, as with other marriages, they must meet a Danish requirement, and the other is that they must have had at least one visa stay in Denmark before they are brought together to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165458	I do not think the Social Democrat rapporteur is quite fair now. The rapporteur comes from a former government party and is well aware that we do not have the whole reason for abolishing the 26-year rule and saying: 'All right, we have one system of payments for Danes and another for foreigners. I mean, if we could, it would have been very easy, but we cannot, because we must not discriminate. That's what this whole sentence is about. And that is why it is not right when the Social Democrats say that you have nothing to do with the amount system that will apply to Danes. When you raise it for foreigners in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, then you also hit Danes through the scheme. And I think the rapporteur is well aware of that. As far as the proposals made by the rapporteur are concerned, I would like to look at them during the committee procedure. This is the first time I have heard about them, but as I have said before: when Social Democracy comes up with amendments, we will of course look at them, look at the structure and see what it is about and then take a decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165556	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165557	But I simply have to say that what the rapporteur of the Left is now saying is an exorbitant nonsense, and this is highlighted by this curious hybrid. For the Ministry has now presented a very special arrangement in relation to § 9 m, which is of course about how we can get foreigners with special qualifications to Denmark. A whole new residence scheme has been set up there. That is what is causing confusion in the debate in here and something that I have the impression that the rapporteur of the Left has not quite understood. There is nothing in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that prevents us from having an amount regime for foreigners without having it for Danes, nothing. It's the government that mixes these two residence arrangements together and establishes a completely new, strange hybrid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165650	Thanks to Mattias Tesfaye. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165651	That is precisely not the case. Because there is a judgment that says that you should not discriminate, but then we go in and say that the rules that apply to foreigners who come to Denmark and work and want to have a spouse with can now also apply to Danes, because it is more lenient rules than those that apply now, if a Dane just moves home and wants to have the spouse with him. In other words, it is as simple as that, and I am sure the rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165717	I have some doubts as to whether Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has also asked for a brief comment. Mr. Holger K. Nielsen isn't. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth and move on to Mr. Knuth. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329165734	This proposal is basically about people who make a lot of money... 408,000 kr. a year or more, it must be easier to have family reunion with a husband or a wife they have found abroad than all others. We do not think that is very sympathetic. The reason for the bill is that Denmark has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights, which, I would say to Mr. Marcus Knuth, nothing to do with the EU has absolutely nothing to do with the EU doing for ethnic discrimination. And rather than removing the bad rules, which include people who only later in life have become Danish citizens, the government has chosen to apply the bad rules, namely the attachment requirement, to everyone. As I said in the previous debate, we in the Enhedslist believe that this is a completely wrong response to the judgment of the Court of Human Rights. So this bill is about the attachment requirement not being applicable to everyone anyway. No, as long as people have sufficient income, as long as they make enough money, they may be brought together with a foreign spouse, even if the overall relationship is greater with the country from which the spouse comes than with Denmark. Clearly, the government has taken great care to find a legal loophole in which we can still discriminate. Now all discrimination has to be done is on the basis of how large a figure is on the pay slip. There is no doubt that lawyers have been put on hard work. This bill has only come 10 months after the judgment in the Biao case fell back in May 2016. The bill abolishing the 26-year rule takes nine pages. This discrimination law doesn't take up less than 31 pages. And it is not the decision-making process that has taken time. The draft law was only in consultation for 6 days and 6 days at the beginning of this month, and it is a scandalous short consultation period that does not belong in a proper legislative process. It is now customary in the field of foreigners. As I said, the bill introduces a new form of discrimination. The Court of Human Rights ruled in Biao that Denmark must not discriminate on grounds of ethnicity, as with the 26-year rule. Now discrimination is based on income. There are no problems with this in relation to the European Court of Human Rights, the Ministry writes in the consultation note, for Article 14 of the Convention, which was relevant in the Biao case, prohibits only discrimination based on sex, race, religion or belief. There is nothing about income in Article 14, and that is a good thing. Nevertheless, the Institute for Human Rights finds it doubtful whether the Strasbourg Court will agree with the Ministry, but if this bill is adopted, it will take at least a few years before it is decided, and in that time the Danish state can then discriminate on income and cut off a few thousand married couples from settling in Denmark, married couples, where one spouse is a Danish citizen, who unfortunately is not highly paid enough to find grace for the government. Whatever the court may achieve in the distant future, Enhedslisten finds this proposal deeply unsympathetic because it is made with the sole purpose of hitting Danish nationals in professions that are not highly paid, or hit pensioners who, after a long life abroad, look forward to spending the last years of life in the country of birth where they are nationals, together with a foreign spouse. Few educators or SOSU assistants earn enough to get through the government's class needle eye. Therefore, Enhedslisten maintains the only reasonable solution, namely to remove the attachment requirement and we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170138	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170150	Nowadays, foreigners who can obtain a residence permit in Denmark via the payment system or the positive list can take their family to Denmark bypassing the ordinary family reunification rules. This bill will give foreign dancers the same opportunity if they meet the requirements, the amount scheme or the positive list. At the same time, a transitional arrangement is proposed so that foreign dancers who have already come here will have the same opportunity. The proposal must be seen in the context of the proposal to abolish the 26-year rule, and we find it difficult to see why foreign dancers should be put worse than foreigners. People who meet the criteria on the positive list or in the amount scheme can certainly make a very positive contribution to Danish society. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170241	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170244	I would just like to ask whether it is generally the view of the Liberal Alliance that foreigners living abroad should have the same rights and conditions as Danish nationals living abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170300	The Liberal Alliance would very much like to make a different arrangement for Danish citizens, but unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to do so, since the rules say that we cannot discriminate against Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170316	What are the rules that say that you cannot treat foreigners abroad differently from Danish nationals abroad? What are these rules? I don't know them. Well, what kind of rules are those?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170325	Those are the rules that that judgment includes. is based on which we have just dealt with in L 162, and the rapporteur knows them to a large extent himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170341	Mrs Josephine Fock for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170343	Just for the record, as a follow-up to this, I would say that it is Danish citizens who, according to the judgment that has been handed down, are discriminated against, so we must not discriminate against Danish citizens in relation to setting up a 26-year limit. For then the suspicion has been that some of the Danish citizens who were not born in Denmark will have more difficulty in meeting that attachment requirement. So that is just a comment to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170407	Yeah, I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170411	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170420	Thank you. We need to deal first with draft law L 163, which follows up on what we debated before, which is the abolition of the 26-year rule, and what the government then proposes to replace it. And what you put in place is that you say that foreign dancers, that is to say Danish citizens who want to return to Denmark, now have to comply with the rules applicable to other foreigners, and that means that they must have an annual salary of more than DKK 400,000, and then they must have offered a job that is on what is called the positive list, which is therefore selected subject areas, and these are the ones that we in Denmark consider that we would like to have for Denmark. I would like to start by mentioning the positive, and the positive, of course, is that we are now giving some Danish citizens the opportunity to come home and remember to see the positive. The negative thing for me is, of course, that we are now again choosing to introduce rules which discriminate against Danish citizens, namely those Danish citizens who are not offered a job with an annual salary of more than DKr 400 000 and who are offered a job which is not in the selected subject areas. So that means it's high-paid jobs. It is for foreign dancers, i.e. Danish citizens, who are offered these high-paid jobs, they say: You can get back to Denmark. That is to say, to the Danish citizens we have, who cannot meet these requirements, we say: you cannot go home. What Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also said is that we also say no to pensioners, foreign dancers who have lived perhaps their entire lives abroad but who choose to say: We want our retirement in Denmark. They have earned up to a good pension abroad and take their pension here to Denmark. As far as I can see, they are not covered by the legislative proposal, and that is at least one of the points I would like to raise in committee. I am very pleased that yesterday, at the technical examination, we asked the committee to prove legally whether this is discrimination against Danish citizens, which I find difficult to see should not be, because it makes a distinction between rich and poor and looks at whether a job has been offered. I firmly believe that we should welcome all our Danish citizens. Of course they must have the right to return to Denmark at any time, and of course they must be able to take their spouse with them. So we're in the alternative highly critical of this bill. We actually did not vote for or against, but I think the debate here today makes it clear that there is discrimination against Danish citizens. And it may be that we can resolve some of this by means of an amendment in relation to the equivalence of Danish citizens, and we will have to work on that in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170733	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329170739	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur, we also feel very much in the Radical Left that all tiny steps to welcome Danes, i.e. Danish citizens who have been born and raised in Denmark and who have gone out into the world to experience new, very often to work for Danish or foreign companies and contribute with what they can, and then return home again. It is somehow quite fundamental that they should be able to return home again. At any rate, I find it difficult to explain to anyone outside this house how it can be that Danes cannot live in their own country with their spouses when they support themselves. Basically, it is incredibly difficult for me to explain to any human being why it cannot be done. But this is a small step in that direction. On the other hand, it seems a hugely complicated step to take. Sir. Marcus Knuth began by saying that Denmark is not served by having many people who do not contribute I think it was something like that. I think I might turn it into that Denmark is not served by the fact that Danes who have worked abroad cannot return home and contribute to their own country. It's pretty basic to me. In the consultation answers it is made clear that this is unnecessary or that it is at least very complicated to have to deal with and to advise foreign dancers about when they want to return home to Denmark. Then there is the consultation answer from the Institute for Human Rights, which questions whether it is at all in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights to introduce such a new form of special rule as one might call it here. So basically we find it extremely complicated. Marriage Without Borders has given the discussion a number of alternative constructive suggestions for simplification. They mean, like us and a number of other organisations, among others. Danes Worldwide, basically, that Danish citizens must be able to live in their own country, if they can support themselves, with those they have now married. There are a number of concrete proposals for simplifications, such as using the CPR register, and I hope that in committee we can try to specify some amendments so that this will be about what I heard earlier rapporteurs talk about. We may disagree on how to attract skilled foreign workers and on what conditions, but we should basically not disagree that Danish citizens who have been abroad should be able to return home and that there should be clear and transparent rules for what equates the Danes who come home and contribute, whether they have a high or a less high salary. As far as we know, we need them all in Denmark, and they are at least Danish citizens. I guess we haven't got to where we don't think we need our own citizens. I therefore hope that the Ministry will be sympathetic to the legal complications here, so that we can formulate some amendments which can make it a little easier to understand and so that it can apply to several Danish citizens, preferably all, without going against any fundamentals. We will work for that. We have to take the time we need. This has taken a very long time, as previous rapporteurs have said, and at the same time there have been four working days of consultation with the organisations on this bill. And I would just like to remind you that it is therefore under all criticism to have so little time for consultation when the substance is so complicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171302	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171311	As others have also pointed out, this is a compensation proposal in relation to the removal of the 26-year rule, in other words what we discussed in the previous draft law. In our opinion, this is an exceptionally unsympathetic, unsympathetic compensation proposal. What we are really saying here is that the foreign dancers we want are those who have money, those who have good high-paid jobs, and the others we do not care about. That's what they say. We cannot accept the approach to family reunification rules for Danes who have lived abroad for many years. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye addressed a problem when he said he's asked Parliamentary lawyers to look at the discrimination element in this. The Institute for Human Rights has pointed out that there is a new discrimination. In other words, we are in fact in danger of eliminating some form of discrimination and replacing it with another form of discrimination. That's what you do here. The question then is whether or not it is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights. This is what the Institute of Human Rights suggests may well be the case. In other words, you can get into exactly the same situation as we are in now with the 26-year rule, with this proposal. I think that in itself should give rise to a little more anxiety as to what this could have as a result of consequences in this area. However, as I have said, although one might say that a legal loophole has been found, we find it extremely unspeakable. So we are not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171520	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, and that is why it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171536	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate we have had so far. After all, the government wants it to be attractive for highly qualified people to take up work in Denmark. It is beneficial for Danish companies and thus for growth and prosperity in Denmark. If Denmark is to be an attractive working country, workers must easily and flexibly be able to bring the family with us, otherwise we will be elected from, and this applies regardless of whether they are foreigners or Danes who return home. The 26-year rule made it possible to exempt the attachment requirement in cases of family reunification, and since the 26-year rule no longer applies as a result of the Biao judgment and, of course, it is also proposed that it has become more difficult for foreign dancers to return home with their foreign family. This will prevent foreign dancers from accepting a job offer in Denmark, even when it is a highly paid job. The government will make that right. We therefore propose a completely new residence scheme to ensure that it is attractive for highly qualified foreign dancers to take up work in Denmark. Under the scheme, a foreign dancer with a job offer covered by the positive list or the amount scheme can bring the family to Denmark under the same conditions as today for foreign workers with a similar job offer. The foreigner will thus be able to bring his foreign family if the job is sufficiently sought after or well paid. With these words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate and look forward to the further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171720	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171723	Now the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left tried to put a smokescreen above the upper-class content of this proposal, so I would just like to ask the Minister from the floor of the Danish Parliament to tell us what an international convention or commitment Denmark has undertaken, which forces us to do when we treat Danish citizens in a way, then foreign nationals must be treated in the same way, and vice versa. What kind of international convention or commitment is it that forces us to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171803	It is quite fundamental, as has also been said earlier, that, first of all, the Biao judgment fell and it went against Denmark. Well, you can relate to that differently. We then want to resolve this by giving foreign dancers the opportunity to go home still, and when we do so we must not discriminate. And that's why the rules here are the way they are. The fundamental thing is that you cannot make more relaxed rules for Danes who are going home than for foreigners who are going home. You could just do what Enhedslisten wants. One could just say that there should be no rules at all: let us abolish the attachment requirement and everything else, and then you can just come here. But we don't want that. We want to limit the damage that the Biao judgment has left behind, and that is why it is this: we must not discriminate in this kind of case. That is precisely what the judgment in its entirety was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171907	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171909	The Minister says so quite clearly: you must not. But where does it stand? What kind of convention is this? What is the agreement to which the Minister refers that, because we have a rule that foreign nationals who want to work in Denmark must earn more than a certain amount of money in order to avoid social dumping, we must also demand from Danish nationals abroad that, in order to come home with their spouse, they should have a high salary? What kind of convention is this? What kind of international agreement is this? The minister must know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329171944	But that's a trick question. 'Cause for us, it's about "and that's where we're gonna disagree, I have to say to Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard, and it is fair enough to limit the damage that we believe the Biao judgment leaves behind. If you want to use the system of amounts, as we do, to stop the gap and try to solve this problem, then you must not discriminate. I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows and agrees. But it is true that you could have solved it in other ways. We just think that this is the most appropriate way to solve it, and then we should not discriminate. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172022	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172023	But those who are now discriminated against here are Danish citizens. There will be discrimination against Danish citizens and, as I can see from the observations made by the draft law, the Ministry does not believe that there is discrimination. It is difficult to ask how sure the Minister is that this is correct. However, I would like to ask: what has been the discussion in the Ministry to ensure that we do not now create a new discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172052	It is clear that these are internal affairs within the Ministry, as Mrs Josephine Fock also says. Having said that, however, I can guarantee that it has, of course, been part of our deliberations, because there is little trick in first getting a verdict against us because there is discrimination, in order to get a new legislative proposal that does the same. It's no use, of course. So I can say that it has of course been thoroughly discussed and examined in the Ministry, both in my own and in the Ministry of Justice, which is involved in cases as well as these.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172128	What about pensioners? I believe that, as the draft law is formulated, it says that a job must be offered. But I find it difficult to see that it must also be necessary to cut off pensioners who have made sufficient money to support themselves if they return to Denmark. Have pensioners been discussed in particular in connection with the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172154	No, but I can tell you, this is what you can call a patch solution. You can be honest and say that it is, after the Biao judgment. I am not enthusiastic about the judgment that fell, but I will have to patch it up and avoid the harmful effects. I think this is the best way to do it, and yes, some people will find it difficult to get here, and that is for example. Those who earn below what the limit is now set to, just as I fully recognise that pensioners can also be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172230	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172232	I understand that there have been very thorough considerations about law in this, i.e. whether there is a new form of discrimination. But was there not also the corresponding thorough consideration when the 28-year rule was applied? I guess there has been. Yet you failed. Aren't you a little nervous, a little afraid that the same can happen here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172259	Obviously, I'm leaning on the legal guidance I get at the Ministry. The answer is no. I believe that we have skilled lawyers, both in our own ministry, as well as I think we have it in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172312	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172313	Yes, but so did the minister then, but still they fell in. I think somewhere that if the Institute for Human Rights, which is actually very, very competent on this issue, like the lighting of the warning lights, should not that give rise to a little more thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172340	I have to say that I simply do not recognise the premise that the lawyers of the Institute for Human Rights should be more capable than the lawyers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice put together. I have to say, I do not recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172352	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172410	We need a minister. We don't do that anymore. Welcome to the Minister. The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329172433	This is the most important point today, and it is a wonderful recurring tradition one day a year to meet with you equality people and look at big and small gender challenges, and that we also get a little bit of each other. We have also got a new minister of equality among us, who has even sprung out as a feminist, I understand, and congratulations on that; we can always use another feminist here in the store. What exactly is a feminist? Yes, the dictionary says that a feminist is anyone who is in favour of social, political and economic equality between the sexes. It's not so dangerous at all. It is precisely the quest for equality and liberation for the individual who has helped to make Denmark a modern, prosperous and secure society, so I hope that the Minister for Gender Equality can become a bit of a trendset in the bourgeois camp, because we need many more feminists, including among you in the blue block. American historian Nancy Cott says about feminism that feminism implies the view that the position of women is a social construction, that is, that it is society-created and not natural or God-created, and otherwise change will not be possible. The recognition by Nancy Cott and feminism is a prerequisite for ensuring gender equality. So it is not the Lord who has decided that women should have 17 per cent. less in salary, and it is not the Lord who has decided that father should bear less than 10%. of the total maternity leave. Similarly, there is nothing in science to support the idea that in women's DNA there should be a special need to go home and look after children instead of making a career, just as there is nothing proven in men's biology to show that the man does not have the ability to buy diapers, sucks and baby moss, but can only find out how to spend all the money on booze and tobacco if he gets his hands on the children's check one day. There is no evidence of this. The gender-separated labour market, the biggest gender challenge in the Scandinavian welfare societies, is a huge waste of talent and money, which only sustains men and women in certain roles and it is all man-made. So the same is the pay gap between men and women, and so is the huge maternity gap we have got between father and mother, and the fact that we do not have enough female talents in play at the top of Danish business. In fact, this is good news, because it means that we can actually do something about it, but we have to be aware that these challenges do not solve themselves, at least not immediately. Berlingske has made calculations that show that unless we actively address, for example, the pay gap, we will only solve the equal pay problem in 2126, and by then we will have to assume that there have been some replacements in here if we are to wait so long for it. But then it is fortunate that as feminists we not only recognise that we are able to solve the challenges, but that we also feel morally obliged to do something about it. This brings me to the fact that the Minister for Gender Equality has created a perspective and action plan for 2017. It is good to be able to put all the gender challenges in perspective, but of course the visions need to be followed by action, and here are a few areas from the plan that I would like to comment on. First, on gender equality among minorities: the government will draw up an action plan against honour-related conflicts, which will also have to combat negative social control. Very good! There is support from the Social Democratic Party for this and also to focus on ensuring equality in the minority environments at all. In this context, it is both surprising and worrying that the government is planning to dismantle KVINFO's mentor network in this context. Bertel Haarder, like Mrs Pia Allerslev, and many other sensible people have fought to preserve, who are repeatedly praised and highlighted as best practice in both the OECD, the ILO and the EU, and who have been honoured with the integration prize of the Ministry of Integration, and who have produced great integration results for minority women here at home. It's just not objective to drop this effort. And with the reports that have otherwise been from the Minister, from the rapporteurs of the government parties, one has to note that the attacks which KVINFO is being made here seem to be politically motivated as if KVINFO should now be knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife-knife. May I not urge the government to drop this chasing so that KVINFO can continue their important work on integration and on equality. It will benefit all of us. But there are other things. In relation to the fight against violence in close relations, it is something where the government, together with most of the parties in the Folketing, has broad support for the efforts made and the wagering pool agreement that has been made and the support that is really important, there is also on the socialist side, but we are also prepared to look at whether we can do even better, for example. by reintroducing urgent and free psychological assistance to victims of violence in crisis centres in Denmark. We are prepared to invest in a system that should apply to both women and men who are victims of violence in crisis centres. In relation to equality at management level, the government will have the entire talent pool in the business world and has now become a wholehearted and enthusiastic supporter of the Danish model for women in management. Nice to have you on board. Now all we have to do is make sure that the law works. In the action plan of last year, the government wanted to follow up on this legislation, and that is the plan that is here, and roughly the same words are in the plan for this year. We just have to say that nothing has happened. The Institute for Human Rights has carried out an in-depth evaluation of the legislation. It's publicly available, so it's just dive into it. The conclusion is in short: The law is the right law, it is expected to have a great positive effect if only it was followed. But it is clear that when the law is not followed, you cannot expect the results either. Every other major company doesn't comply with the legislation in this area, so maybe I can save the government a bigger consultancy bill here today.I'd like to do it free of charge by saying: If you're wondering what it takes to get the law to work, then the answer is simple: get companies to live up to the law, because then the law will also work. In terms of equality within the public authorities, I came up with the 2016 perspective plan. On page 19, the initiative is described, where the government has agreed with KL, that they are developing a guide to the municipalities to ensure that both mother and father receive information from the public for everything that concerns their children. Because one might ask: why is it only the mothers who have to be informed? That's not equality. So I got a little optimistic when I read these lines. Then a year passed. The 2017 plan, certainly on page 19, says that it will take the initiative to draw up a guide for the municipalities so that both parents can be informed. So it has been another year, and all that has happened is that we have all aged one year. Guys, it is not enough just to write things down on a piece of paper, it also needs to be put into practice. The 2016 action plan also states that the government will examine the possibility of changing the payment rules for the children's cheque, so that the check is not per month. automatically paid to Mother's account, but that parents can decide for themselves where to pay it. A year passed, and we all got a year older, and what's the status? Indeed, the 2017 plan states that the government has decided to investigate exactly the same thing that it decided to investigate in 2016. Einstein said that the definition of insanity is to repeat the same act over and over again and then expect a new result, that is to say in this case to think that if you do nothing, a lot will happen. One might ask oneself: what is the government waiting for? Is something going to happen in these areas here, or can we just reprint this action plan and then we can use it again next year? These action plans are similar to each other, and one can of course say that at least one is so consistent, and that is always something. The less neat interpretation of it would be that the government has stalled, that it has simply fallen asleep in the field of equality, that the government is snoring bubbles. But don't be sad, because the time hasn't quite run from the government yet, there is still good opportunity and plenty of time to accomplish a lot. I hope, and I predict, that you will meet a very sympathetic Parliament, also a benevolent people, if you take the next step and not just leave it at the talking, but actually use the action plan today to also act and deliver some results in the area of equality. At least I'll say some nice words about you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one short remark from Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173445	Thank you for that, and thank you for an incredibly good speech. In fact, I believe that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff is my Socialist favourite feminist because I agreed with everything, from end to end. So much praise for that. What I'd like to ask is some of what Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff himself also mentions, namely both equal pay and maternity, which may be the two great monsters in the equality debate in Denmark, and then the essential point that in order to change things we have to do something about it. What will the Social Democratic Party do, for example, if the Social Democratic Party is allowed to decide on equal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173533	The favorite rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173534	Thank you. Well, as I also said in my speech, our gender-separated labour market is the biggest challenge, and the two main factors in it are the pay gap between men and women and the maternity gap between men and women. And the two problems are related, that cannot be avoided. It takes it not just to keep talking. In relation to the problem of equal pay, we need to give some tools to bring to light the discrimination which unfortunately is also taking place out there. However, it also requires that at some point we dare to restart the whole talk, whether we can give some better tools to ensure a fairer distribution of parental leave. I don't have the show rocks here and now, but I'm open to talking about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173640	I'm really glad. I am also pleased with the analysis of the context, because I fully agree with it, and also with the fact that it should not go on talking, I fully agree with it. So perhaps I am just calling for an example of a socialist tool. I fully agree that we cannot fix everything on the part of Christiansborg. It should certainly not sound as if I would ask the Social Democrats to tell us how we just fix everything from in here, and then it will be all right, because we have a law that says that we should get equal pay, but yet we do not have it. So just an example of some kind of tool... it doesn't have to be maternity leave, it can also be equal pay... as we could get to grips with from here, so we act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173722-2	After all, it is a matter of extending the tools available to us in relation to gender-based pay statistics. We know that where there are particular challenges with pay gaps, there are small and medium-sized enterprises, and these are precisely the companies from which the government has removed gender-based pay statistics and the access that representatives of the shop stewards, employees' representatives had to actually get to grips with these problems. We have an equal pay law. It wants all companies to live up to. We all have an interest in this, but we must, of course, provide both companies and employees with the right tools. It was a place where it was very easy to intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173805	We thank the Socialist rapporteur and welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329173813	In Denmark we have fought for very, very many years for equality, and it is incredibly important that everyone has equal opportunities. We must safeguard the right of individuals to express themselves and to unfold. Equality means that everyone, regardless of gender, sexuality or gender identity, must have the freedom to be them, they are also when the subject of some is a little too sensitive. This is true, for example. for the massive equality problems we have seen there are for some women with Muslim backgrounds. When we see a program on TV 2 as the mosques behind the veil, we can see that it is massive repression when a woman is told not to work with men or take a job. Many of these women are subject to religious and social control that comes from the religious leaders in the mosques and the environment around them. The fact that they are given advice and guidance that they must not stay for Danish has fatal consequences for many of the young people who live with a split between two sets of rules. This leads to family conflicts and means that many young people have to flee their families. We in Denmark have also had to set up top-secret sites, such as: RED-Safehouse, a self-serving institution that operates two safe and hidden locations for young people fleeing honor-related conflicts, including social control, honor-related violence, forced marriages or threats to them. Imagine, in relation to people of non-Western origin, there are 21 per cent. 17 per cent of young women and 17 per cent of young women. of the young men who experience that their family restricts their choice of boyfriend or spouse. It must not take place in an equal opportunities country such as Denmark. When we became aware of all this in connection with the debate on the Mosques behind the veil, we in the Danish People's Party were also very pleased that we had helped to support the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, because there are very many people who have a non-Western origin who are on public support. And those people are incredibly important to get into work so that they can contribute to society. If integration is possible for most people, I doubt it. But there are massive problems, and this also means that if you are at home on the couch you will certainly not be integrated. You will not be integrated into Danish society if you only make sure to service the family, the men and the children in the family, by cooking their food and washing their clothes, because you do not meet other Danes, and you do not experience Danish culture by being at home. That is why it is so important that we have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, because it provides an incentive to get to work rather than to be at home. This is an incredibly important equality proposal that has come through here, which helps to secure an important group of women, which, after all, has a huge challenge in terms of gender equality problems. If we look at the country's shelters, annual statistics for women and children at shelters for 2014 show that women with a different country of birth than Denmark account for 85%. At the shelters. That's so, even if they're only 12%. of the total number of adult women in Denmark. It's screaming to the sky; there's something raving wrong. Another issue that we must take seriously is the negative social control, which creates massive restrictions in some ethnic minority environments, thereby depriving people of their free choice and opportunities. Under no circumstances should we close our eyes to the fact that there are environments in Denmark, where equality has more or less been put out of service. not free to choose friends, girlfriend, education, spouse. We must not and must not accept this, that is to say, that some people are prevented from living with the freedom and equality that we have achieved in Denmark, because it applies to all of us. Imagine that there are people living here in Denmark who send their children on a reeducation journey or an involuntary stay abroad for example. to get married or engaged. We must by no means accept and contribute to social control, because that is what happens when separate women's teams are set up for roll-down curtains. The argument has been that otherwise women will not come out. Yes, some have even called it integration. I actually think that's crazy. Instead, we should ask questions such as: Why do women not come out and participate on an equal footing with others? Why is it necessary to set up separate swimming teams? And what's really wrong with there being a male lifeguard? It is not integration, and we must not and must not accept it. We should not forget the men either. There are approx. 13,000 men who are exposed annually to physical violence by current or former partners, and most of them do not seek help. Nor do they necessarily make use of the network they have. Women do that to a greater extent. But we have to assume that there's a big darkness in this area. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is a big thing that the man crisis centres that are are really equal to the women crisis centres in relation to funding. If we look at the Services Act, it says in black and white that a municipal council must offer temporary residence to women who have been subjected to violence, threats, etc., but so there is nothing about men. We in the Danish People's Party think this is unfair, and it must of course be changed. At least in the Danish People's Party we have contributed several times to support the men's crisis centres through pools, wagering pools, and we will of course continue to do so. But we need to rewrite the Service Act because there's something here that doesn't work. Something else that we in the Danish People's Party are very concerned about is when you, for example, are. see children of non-Western origin who are to start school and who do not have the basic Danish competences in place for children at that age. Already there, you have turned back to the beginning of your school life, when you have not got the basic skills that can be expected from a 5-year-old or 6-year-old. One thing I also experience is young people, for example. takes a course on general adult education, AVU, which was born and raised in Denmark but which cannot Danish, although they have attended a Danish primary school. There are some young people here who have lived quite a number of years in Denmark, and who, it is to be expected, have been able to speak a rather Danish in relation to being able to behave, but who have not yet got it fully in place, among other things. because at home they do not cultivate what is otherwise natural for all of us, precisely to speak Danish together. It is something that is really important to us in the Danish People's Party that we have a closer look at. When we talk about equality, I cannot help but mention that we have a particular challenge with regard to men. We see, among other things, that men live less time than women; there are more men who commit suicide; and men generally have a worse state of health. It is also something that we in the Danish People's Party are very aware of and that we are working on to improve. At least in this debate we must remember that equality is not just about women. Equality is about both men and women and equal opportunities. Equality goes both ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329174801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329174808	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for spending much of his speaking time talking about the crisis centres. This is an area of action that really deserves much more attention than the one we have given over the past many years and where we could help a great many people with better efforts. We are doing a lot and I think we should be proud of what we have agreed on. However, the question is whether we might be able to do even better than we are doing today. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party thinks it might be exciting to resume the scheme that has been with free and emergency psychological assistance, which we know to work. This helps to free the victims of violence from violence. We could re-establish it at shelters, so it applies at both women's crisis centres and men's crisis centres. It costs 4-5 million. kr. a year. That money's gonna be made home real fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329174905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329174907	I think it is really, really important to give priority to women's crisis centres and that it is important to give priority to men's crisis centres. As a starting point, I feel that no one should come to a shelter and knock on the door and then be rejected. Everyone has to be let in if they need help. I mean, that help can be one of those things. I agree that we must, of course, provide all those who need help and who are in such a terrible situation, for example. are subjected to violence or threats of it, the help they need at all. In the Danish People's Party we say yes, because we think it is a good idea with psychological help. But I have a wallet in front of me today to support Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff? No, I don't. At the same time, however, I also have the expectation that the municipalities of individual women and men will do all they can to give the individual, who is thus in difficulty, an important and proper effort, and this can be done, among other things. be in the form of psychological assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175015	Thank you for your positive reception. In relation to the economy, as I said, it is about 4-5 million. kr., it's about. The Social Democratic Party can provide funding for this. So the economy is really the least problem in this. The main challenge is to find the political majority. The economy is under control. The free psychological assistance thing matters, but what is really the biggest problem is that today there are 8-9 weeks of waiting to come to the psychologist if you are violently affected. That is really what is most important. This is even more important than the economy. Because after that time, the victim of the violence is back in the violent relationship, and that is the pattern we want to break. Maybe you can help us out a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175104	However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is far too long a waiting period, in order to get help in such a situation, at least in the form of psychological assistance. But I am also of the opinion that if you are in a crisis situation and knocking on the door to, for example. A women's crisis center, of course you have an emergency problem. But the acute problem must first of all be to take care of yourself and any children you may have with, to have peace and peace around you and to feel secure. It is the most important need that can be met right there. And there it is important that you also cooperate with the municipality and that the municipality intervenes as soon as possible to ensure that these people have a place to live, which is not the crisis center, but a permanent place where they can feel safe. And, of course, the police also have to go in and ensure that if there is a man who has been violent, he is also told that he should not approach a woman who has been subjected to violence and that it could trigger, for example, a woman who has suffered violence. prison if you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175206	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175210	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your speech, especially because the rapporteur was so obsessed with spending quite a lot of his speaking time addressing the problem of parallel societies, social control, that is, the fact that many women are isolated and have to enter the labour market and participate in society. I don't think anyone disagrees with that, but the question is how to do it. I would like to know whether the rapporteur could perhaps see a problem in the fact that an initiative such as the mentor network under KVINFO actually helps to create networks for these women so that they can just get out and look for work or get some good advice on how to look for work and thus get out of the home and join the community like everyone else. Will the rapporteur try to work against closing the mentor network at KVINFO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175303	Basically, and as a starting point, I do not object to the use of mentors in several places for vulnerable groups. I would like to make that clear; it can be a very, very good idea. We are discussing this in many areas and we know that it can have a positive effect. But in relation to this particular group, I would say that it is also important to say that much more means are needed to ensure that there are more, among other things. women entering the labour market. And I believe that such things as the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have a much more beneficial effect in ensuring that people actually enter the labour market and are not kept in isolation in their own homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175350	Now we do not quite know the effect of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, i.e. whether it actually brings more women into the labour market. But you have a tool that works as intended, i.e. to get more women into the labour market... which DF also wants this mentor network. I myself have been both mentor and mentor and also helped to start it at the time. I have benefited greatly, and I am sure that there are a lot of other women who also think that this is a great way both to create a network and to get out. So I want to know if DF can't see the sense of maintaining a system that actually works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175429	When Mrs Yildiz Akdogan says that she herself has made a lot of money out of this network that she is talking about, I have to admit that I have some doubts about what this mentor network is really being set up for, i.e. whether it is set in the world for resourceful women or for vulnerable women. I must admit that I have some doubts about this, and I think it is quite important to clarify this in relation to whether or not we should support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175457	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175500	Thank you. Like my colleague, I would also like to congratulate him on the fact that the rapporteur's speech contained the very important aspects of social control in the case of immigrants, and also the points about the equality of men, I think are incredibly important. However, this leads me to ask the question of which other equality issues are about ensuring women's equality and emancipation that the Danish People's Party is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175547	I think that is an incredibly exciting question. I think that just confirms that there is still a long way to go in, among other things. Social democracy, in relation to the fact that there is a huge equality problem with Muslim women in this country. In other words, otherwise the rapporteur would not ask me that question. But I just have to take note of the fact that there is still something that can be worked on in the Social Democratic Party in order to realise that there are massive equality problems in the Muslim environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175625	Well, I also think it was an interesting question that I asked, and I think it is relevant here during the gender equality report on the perspective and action plan, so I would like to repeat it: I do not really have much speaking time: which gender issues are the Danish People's Party's concern when it comes to women's equality and emancipation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175653	We are very much, if we are to say this explicitly, particularly focused on the fact that Muslim women in Denmark must achieve equality. We don't think it's okay just to be told to stay home with the meat pots. We don't think that's okay. We do not think it is right for there to be such massive social control, and that is what we want to get rid of, and that is what we are working very hard to ensure that does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175726	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175730	Thank you. In many ways, there are many of the views expressed by the rapporteur, with which I think a great many of us can agree, but I have a question about something that puzzles me very much. Now the Danish People's Party is a support party for the government, and therefore the Danish People's Party has a special opportunity to block decisions in the government. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur how it can be that KVINFO is to be closed down • KVINFO, which has all the objectives of equality, as the rapporteur has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175815	It is quite new to me to get the information that KVINFO should be abolished. I haven't heard anything about that. But it's interesting if that's what it's all about; I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175827	That's a smart way to avoid answering. Because if you take away the essential part of KVINFO's work, namely the research library and the knowledge centre, there is not much left of KVINFO, it is actually something quite different. It is no longer KVINFO; I did not think it was necessary to explain that. That is why I ask: why should KVINFO be abused in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175900	To this I must say that, of course, I think it is quite fair to ask questions about KVINFO in the light of the recent debate. But when it is that Mrs Marianne Jelved is actually asking why KVINFO should be abused and cut to pieces, we just have to remember that there are women and men out in this society who are experiencing every day some problems of equality, including where they are being abused. And I think it is really, really difficult in the light of having to listen to the abuse of KVINFO. I have to admit, I think it's really hard to listen to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175935	The next question is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329175940	Now I have a great deal of respect for the fact that everything cannot be covered in such a rapporteur's speech, because it is a long statement and a comprehensive area to deal with, and so I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks should be done to reduce the pay gap between men and women.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180005	After all, it is a challenge that one might say would be solved if it were to be some more women who took some jobs, which also gave more in the payroll. I believe that this is most often what we see if we look at statistics, namely that there is a difference between men and women, compared to what jobs you take. After all, we have already agreed that equal pay should be paid for equal work, but there may be a difference between the jobs you take and the wages you receive, and that is very, very difficult to change. I support the fact that as many people as possible take those jobs if they can, as they want, because the best thing for everyone is that you have something to deal with that you actually care about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180109	It is quite true that part of the explanation lies in such a gender-separated labour market where wages differ. It could be that the rapporteur had some suggestions. But I should also like to hear that there is also a part of the pay gap that is completely inexplicable, in other words, where you cannot explain it with seniority, different responsibilities or anything, but it is actually a real lack of equal pay despite the fact that we have an equal pay law. What does the Danish People's Party think we can do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180143	Mrs Trine Torp is quite right that there is something that we find difficult to explain. I don't remember exactly how many percent it was, if it was about. 6% or 7%, but there is something that is inexplicable, and it is difficult to do anything about it unless it becomes explanatory. That is why I also support the fact that we are making an effort to examine such matters more closely, because it also means that we are being better dressed here in the Folketing to do something about the absurdities that one might think there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180218	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180220	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Trine Torp raised, because I think it is a rather interesting subject, and it is actually rarely something we hear the Danish People's Party talk about. But what I hear the rapporteur say is that the Danish People's Party agrees that the unequal pay between men and women is a problem and that we must do something about it or what? It is said that women must take more well-paid jobs. I know a lot of women who wish they were paid more, so I think they're asking themselves: I'm on, so where are the jobs? Does the Socialist, I am sorry, rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believe that equal pay is something that is up to the individual or that it is also something that we must act politically in one way or another? And is it just a lack of tools from in here, or is it simply a responsibility to be placed with the individual?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180326	At least it is the DF's rapporteur who is allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180328	Thank you. It just gave rise to a little smile on your lip, so thank you for that. We have established rules here in Denmark that equal pay should be paid for equal work, and that is what we are running for. As I have also mentioned before, some of the explanation is that the average income for women is lower than for men, among other things, that there are more women than men who take jobs that do not give as much in the payroll as other jobs. It's something that's pretty hard to change. We cannot begin to force women to take some higher education, which may give a little more in the payroll or something like that. It's pretty hard to force people to do it. Now I am also the rapporteur for vocational training, and I cannot help raising a small flag so that as many people as possible take vocational training, whether they are men or women, because we need it. Then I am aware that this may not always lead to the jobs where you get the most in the payroll. Indeed, that was my answer to the question put by Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180441	I have to disagree that this was an answer to my question, because what I asked was whether it was something we should do about by Christiansborg, in other words politically, or whether it was, as it were, up to the individual. I can almost trace myself to the fact that the answer was that it is about women having to choose some other training courses and taking another course again it is an exciting way to put it • some more well-paid jobs. I think there are a lot of women waiting to hear how to do it, but it is evident that it is taking up vocational training. So, the pay gap we have in Denmark, we can't only explain with different lengths of education and this because there are big pay differences between the classic male and female jobs. According to the statement that we are discussing today, there is a pay gap of up to 7% which is inexplicable, so I will just try to ask again: Does the Danish People's Party have any suggestions on how to do something about the unequal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180540	You have to have equal pay for equal work. That is our starting point. We cannot and will not force people to take any education that can give more in the payroll. We're not gonna do that. We simply think that this is too much to intervene. I also have to say that it is, of course, good to be able to raise the equality debate on equal pay, but the Danish People's Party has some priorities in relation to among others. the problems of equality for Muslim women. This is something that we give a much higher priority to working with than equal pay, to put the prune on the counter, as it were.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180628	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180632	Thank you. I would like to follow up exactly what the rapporteur says at the end of the debate on the challenges that the rapporteur sees in relation to Muslim women at least. The rapporteur used much of his speech to talk about this. Knowledge of the gender challenges of immigrants and ethnic minorities is one of the things that can be found in the KVINFO library database. Does the rapporteur support the ideas of the Minister for Culture to shut down the KVINFO library database?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180704	As I hear it, it is not shut down, but it is put into another organization. So it's not gonna be shut down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180715	No, what is actually happening is that it has to be transferred to the Royal Library, where you are currently cutting down on the professional consultants. So there will not be the same opportunity for specialist advice at the Royal Library as there is now on KVINFO, because there are fewer resources available. Those are the facts. Does the rapporteur support the premise that we are moving the KVINFO library service to the Royal Library?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180739	I do not see why KVINFO's library service should be exactly with KVINFO. I think it is an excellent proposal that has been made in relation to putting it under the auspices of the Royal Library. We in the Danish People's Party can thus support the fact that it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180756	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329180807	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying something unorthodox to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff that he made an excellent speech. He may have noticed that I was not present in the Chamber, and this was because I had been a little over-optimistic with regard to the Legal Secretariat's assessment, and so I can also recommend that you do not run a mile in suits on Strøget while you have Parliament's TV, so that everyone is informed of what the Social Democratic Party thinks about the equality statement, but it should not cost the Socialist rapporteur anything. After all, he got rid of the question. I think it is important that we debate the state of equality in Denmark every year, and that is also why it is good that we have an equal opportunities statement. I thank the Minister for that, just as the ministers who have come before her are to be thanked for it. I have the view, and the Left also has the view, that we in Denmark are a privileged country, where it looks very good in terms of equality. However, it does not change the fact that there are a large number of areas where we would like things to go even better, and that is why I am also pleased and proud that the government has launched a number of initiatives. I imagine that in the next 10 minutes to 15 minutes we will have a very good debate on whether these initiatives are sufficient, but before we get there, I will, after all, mention a few of them. Of course, the fight for equality is not given, and neither are our privileges. It's something we have to fight for all the time. We must always ensure that men and women and people of transsexual origin have equal opportunities. You must be allowed to be who you are, no matter how you look, what religion you have, how you dress, what sex you choose, etc., and we know that there are a whole range of areas where equality could look better. I think that social control is an important issue. I was part of a hearing myself, as Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and many of the other equal opportunities rapporteurs present also participated in where researchers told us that well over one in four young ethnic boy and girl in Denmark experienced social control. These were the most recent figures one had in relation to how one can dress, who one must be boyfriend with, how one chooses career path, etc. etc. That is why I am also pleased that the government has launched a number of initiatives, i.e. youth summits, information campaigns, a national travel team and various research initiatives. My impression is also that there is relatively broad support for these measures, and I have high expectations that they will produce some sensible results. Another area in which I have personally been involved is revenge porn. We know that the vast majority of people who are exposed to vengeance porn are young girls between the ages of 14 and 17, but there are huge dark numbers in these areas. The joint hearing we held proved skilfully that the police have so far received very few reports. This is changing at the moment, and of course we should not be happy about that, but we should appreciate the opportunity for young boys and girls who are being offended and have their daily lives, confidence and identity destroyed to get some help. This isn't just about punishment. It is about an integrated approach in which we look at digital education, training of teachers, help for victims, more resources for the authorities that have to serve the police business, and also, incidentally, a higher penal framework. It's not a problem that goes away by itself. On the contrary, I believe that behaviour on the Internet and the way in which we move our social activity, our lives, will challenge us to a great extent in the future, and this applies both to sexism, to vengeance porn, to condescending speech, and to all the elements of abuse that you encounter physically. We must also take a position on them, and we must fight them. We must educate our young people to be strong, to have independence, to help each other to say away and dare to go to an adult or authority if there is that they experience that people are out of line with their privacy and personality. I do not think it is particularly fortunate that the so-called leader of the free world has chosen to introduce the global gag rule again, which is why I am also proud that we have decided jointly and with the government in the lead to devote a number of additional funds to helping the world's most vulnerable, poor and women in comfortless regions. The fact that you have the right to choose whether you want to have children, when you want to be pregnant, whether you want to stop your pregnancy, is a human right, and I think it is both excellent and commendable that Denmark takes the lead, and I am pleased that the whole parliament shares that view. At the same time, there are a number of other areas we need to talk about. The first is maternity leave. It is no secret that the Left and the Government do not want to legislate in relation to quotas, and we have had the discussion many times before. My impression was that there were more in the previous government who had the ambition, but that it was not entirely possible to achieve it. We're not gonna talk about that anymore. On the other hand, I believe that in the modern labour market and in the generations that are entering the labour market now, there is a desire to appreciate a stronger balance between work and private life. I believe, moreover, that companies and organisations, including public authorities, which are able to offer men a socially acceptable opportunity and a better opportunity to take maternity leave, will attract the most skilled employees. That is why the government has also taken the lead in bringing together large, small and medium-sized enterprises to launch this cultural struggle and to encourage, demonstrate, document and, moreover, promote the participation of particular men in maternity. I think that as a man you should take all the maternity leave you can possibly get. I think it is a sign of honour for the men who can say that they are almost as much with their baby as their mother has been, but I do not think it is politicians here from the Parliament's platform to decide when a maternity leave is long enough for father or mother. Must be the family. I would like to help to break down the cultural barriers that today mean that in some specific sectors men are largely not going on maternity leave. It's bad for themselves, it's bad for the labour market, and it's bad for the kids they get. Then we'll talk about equal pay. We still have an inexplicable pay gap, and that is a problem, and that is not good enough. The previous speaker and the previous speaker both pointed out that we have very strong equal treatment rules, and we can be proud of them, but we also often have some challenges in terms of people wanting to use them. Do you dare, as a woman or a man who feels offended in an employment situation or in a wage negotiation, draw attention to this and perhaps destroy your career? It's nice when someone does it, and we'd like even more people to do it. Six months ago, we had a meeting with the Institute for Human Rights, where the Equal Opportunities Committee was given the opportunity to ask questions about this. At the same time, I think that training is also, and the experts think so; it is not just something I am making up from the platform that is a pretty important factor in determining how earnings in the payroll are going to be made. Unfortunately, there are some areas traditionally characterised by men and women. Fortunately, however, there is a break-up at the moment. There are several women who go the technical and scientific path, even in terms of vocational training of a more technical nature, and I think that is excellent. On the other hand, fortunately, we also see more men who choose what they used to call soft subjects in a perhaps a little condescending way. I mean, I don't think one can call subjects soft and hard, I think one can call subjects relevant. It is a job you do, you train yourself with a scientific, a technical or some other kind of competence you then use to solve a task, get a salary and create a career. I think immediately that we as a country are privileged, that we have the opportunity to constantly look at what is going on with equality, correct and discuss how we can do better, and also help abroad. That is also why I sometimes get a little sad when the Office for the highest level of information is still standing on the back of the Politiken, if anyone is in doubt • chooses to publish a study that shows that Denmark is rattling down the equality barometers internationally. The body for the highest information had not taken the trouble to open up the report, which is made by the World Bank, and look at which categories and determinants decided the locations. Take e.g. health. Denmark has fallen almost 100 places, and that's because the organisation, which assesses how to swing in relation to health, has set a life expectancy for men and women, and if you look after this life expectancy perfectly, i.e. that women approx. 7 years older than men when they die, you get a score of 100. This means that Russia, where average life expectancy is 20 years shorter than in Denmark, is one of the healthiest societies in the world, whereas in Denmark, where men live a little too long, it is really bad according to this report. All right, we're gonna go down to seat number. 128 or 148, and you can't take that exactly, but I think it is. It is a pity that the debate on equality in the Agency for Higher Education ends up taking the wrong starting point. When I mention it, it is simply because it filled a great deal and, unfortunately, both the opposition, the opinion-formers and others did not feel the reason for fulfilling their responsibilities and point out that this report, which was used to criticise the government, was actually based on, yes, false news, bad determinants and bad information. I do not think that this is a matter of honour to the parliamentary equality rapporteurs, and it does so normally. Because it's a nice selection, it's a nice group, there's plenty of commitment, there's lots of opinions, attitudes and sharp edges. But right in that account, I think we owe it to each other to make it a little better. I sense that the President is about to stand up, so before I am interrupted, I would like to thank him for the floor. I look forward to questions from everyone who belongs to the opposition, and perhaps even our own support party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329181830	There is also a nice little stripe, so there will be an opportunity to answer. The first is sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329181837	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, also to mention a number of very good initiatives by the government in this area. One thing the rapporteur did not mention was that which is on the way around KVINFO, where there are other citizens who have had a greater desire to talk about it. So I just want to know if the rapporteur shares the enthusiasm that Mr. Bertel Haarder, Mrs Pia Allerslev, the Ministry of Integration, the EU, OSCE, OECD, ILO, UNESCO, the Ministry of Gender Equality, McKinsey and all sorts of other sensible organisations and bodies and politicians have for KVINFO's mentor network, or is it all just a huge feminist left-wing plot? Where does the rapporteur stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329181935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329181937	In any case, I am not in any conspiracy, I would like to reassure Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff with. Those who have followed in the debate and also by representatives of both KVINFO and Denmark's Royal Social Democratic Party will know that I have not spoken about that area. I have said one thing, and that is that I think KVINFO is doing an excellent job of providing information, guaranteeing women's rights, among other things. Middle East. I've done democracy down there myself, and I know how demanding it is. I am also sorry that the debate that arose in relation to the criticism of KVINFO is linked to this library transfer. For objectively speaking, it has nothing to do with a criticism of KVINFO. A large number of smaller library collections have been moved to ensure that both quality and access are maintained. Of course, you can choose to see it this way, and it is natural that it is perceived in terms of timing. But such a short, analytical moment, when you look at the facts, will reveal to the vast majority that this is actually not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182044	After all, I think that the rapporteur of the Left is saying some sensible things. I really wish it could spread like waves in the bourgeois camp, that is, some of these words. Because when it came out in relation to the library, I'd say I wasn't out picking it right away. I was thinking, let's see what's happening here. But then it came from the Liberal Alliance that KVINFO was, after all, just left-wing propaganda and that it had to be closed down. And later it didn't have to be closed, but it certainly had to lose all the money. The rapporteur's own minister was out suggesting that support for mentoring networks should be dropped, which, otherwise, everyone else fully agrees is a fantastic gift for integration efforts. So it is not surprising to the rapporteur that things are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182144	No, it certainly doesn't. In fact, I think that was one of the first things I said in the reply I gave just now. I understand that this is the way it is perceived. That is precisely why I believe that neither the Minister for Gender Equality nor myself have actually said anything negative about KVINFO in this debate. In my opinion, there is no financial resort in the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, which sits a civil servant and nods a little compared to KVINFO. Then I've read the books correctly. It also means that, as with everything else, we have a coordinating role. We have an advisory role and we can choose to point out things and things. I have no criticism of the same level of criticism. In my view, this does not qualify for the removal of aid solely because it has an opinion on who is extra feminist or something else. I personally have some orientations in relation to equality, which are not always consistent with KVINFO, but that does not mean that I do not want them to exist or that I cannot speak to representatives of KVINFO. I think that only makes us smarter. Thank you!). And there goes the speaking time again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182242	Yeah, that's right. The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182245	I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his speech. He came widely around, and it was some very relevant things that he traveled. I was particularly pleased with the latter, precisely because the rapporteur actually agrees that KVINFO is doing an excellent job, quoted literally, and that therefore he does not have the same criticism of KVINFO as the rapporteur said. In the light of all the debate that has taken place on the mentoring system, I would like to know whether this is something the rapporteur might be working for, so that the mentoring network under KVINFO is kept precisely because the rapporteur, like the Social Democrats, is very interested in us trying to do a job and an effort in relation to, for example, to combat social control. And here there are a lot of women and men, I know from my work what actually benefits from having a mentor they can talk to, and not least having a network that can also be a clue to getting into the labour market. So is this something the rapporteur wants to fight to preserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182349	In other words, I think it is unrealistic for Mrs Yildiz Akdogan to have me as the Left's equal opportunities rapporteur, moreover, the first man in the post for incredibly many years; not that it makes any difference, but it has been an interesting journey of discovery into the various equality organisations, I would say to promise that I will disagree from the platform with the politics of my own party or, for that matter, the political line of the Minister for Integration. When I say that I do not have the same criticism, it is because I do not have the idea of KVINFO that it is an organisation consisting solely of left-wing combat feminists whose sole purpose is to destroy the government. That is not my personal view; my personal view is that a sensible job is being done in many areas. My view is that if the Minister for Integration has some arguments to shift funds or other things that the Minister for Culture has in the Ministry of Culture, then we must take the discussion there and also take it on the basis of factual, enlightened and transparent conditions. But it has to be the case that we can discuss just to end how to spend state funds on equality. After all, no one is sacred, protected or subject to particularly secure budgetary control discipline for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182503	Now the rapporteur himself says that KVINFO is doing a sensible job, and I interpret that as being because the rapporteur can see that there are some tools, for example. These mentor networks that work. And why actually remove or destroy something that works? That is why I would like to hear: does the rapporteur not see a problem in simply removing one thing on the basis of more ideological reasons and not actually on the basis of whether it works or does not work? The rapporteur must be concerned that it is the ideologist who dominates rather than the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182537	In general terms, I am very pleased that we have a very bourgeois-liberal government. I myself am also very much in favour of a strong liberal position, which I think I recognise strongly in the government framework. I am aware of the work that KVINFO is doing in relation to information in the Middle East. As I said earlier, I've been working a lot with the area myself. I know that you do a good job there. Unfortunately, I am not an expert and I cannot deal with the criticism of the report that many people are talking about, because I have not yet been able to read it. One might have expected that, but as the rapporteur remembers from the last parliamentary term, there is a great deal to be done when you have two or three rapporteurs and run from Herod to Pilate and other religious destinations in search of giving the government positive publicity and avoiding too many unpleasant things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182622	Thank you. It's fine with speaking time. There is ample opportunity, and there are many questionsers, so you can easily get rid of your answers, even within speaking time, I think. That's very nice. Now it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182634	I was fascinated by the fact that the rapporteur is running around in religious places. I would really like to hear more about that point of view of KVINFO, but I really do not think we are getting that much closer. So I would like to delve into some of the things that the rapporteur himself is also addressing: digital sexual abuse, popularly called revenge pornography, which, in my view, I share the concern about and think is such a, if not increasing, then at least a trend which is getting more attention and which is absolutely destructive to those women, in particular, who are being exposed to it, but also to the young boys and men who are being exposed to it. Vengeance porn is probably a bit of a misleading concept, because it covers much more than that. It covers some much more systematic sharing of private images of sexual situations, nude images, intimate images that have not been accepted for sharing, and that have not been accepted for having in a forum where anyone can go in and trade with it. One of the things that is discussed a lot in that debate is how the penal code is involved in this, because today it either falls within the scope of the child porn para graph or for those who are above the age of sexual abuse in private life. I would like to know whether the government, or at least the Left, will be working to obtain a separate provision on digital sexual abuse, which will then also be placed where it belongs, namely in the context of sexual crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182817	We need to be assisted, so it would also be very good if the questioner were to meet the deadline. You even have two options when it has to be so wrong. Next time it has to be a little shorter, I just want to say now. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182828	I guess I'm gonna have to take part in the responsibility for development. That is how the educational, didactic approach that is contagious, including on the opposition, I am afraid. I think it is important for us to have these violations classified and placed in the appropriate place in the penal code. There was a reporter who asked me exactly the same question about a week ago. I imagine that he might be motivated by what Mrs Pernille Skipper just asked me. I have no opinion as to whether it is right or wrong to make a separate paragraph. I am simply not legally competent enough to assess the effect of this in relation to doing or not doing, at least not in my capacity as rapporteur here on the platform. But I am convinced, however, by good advice and arguments, that there should be something more in Danish politics, by the way, I think. Then there is a good argument for doing so, I think we should look at it. On the other hand, I believe that one of the main problems facing the police is that, as far as I understand, you do not have an independent IT column that allows you to record these crimes in a single way, and that is why you cannot give either the police, the social authorities or anyone else a comprehensive overview. That could be an argument to look at the proposal. But to promise this from the platform I don't think I'm due or that I dare today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329182941	It is quite true that part of what is the side effect of it is that the police record only the individual paragraphs of the criminal code. So that's why it's hard to figure out where these cases end up because they end up under a lot of different paragraphs. It is, in my view, not the main issue. The main issue is, of course, that we are being made aware that this is a serious crime and that it is not about violating privacy, but that it is a sex crime and that it is young girls, women, boys and men's gender and sexuality that are being violated, which is a very independent signal to send. So, with all due respect for the fact that we cannot deal with the specific paragraph, can the rapporteur of the Left recognize that we, as equal opportunities rapporteurs, think it is important to address sexual abuse as what they are, in order to be able to get rid of it in any way at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183038	The answer is absolutely yes. I mean, last year I put this at the forefront among other things in my work on equality, and I am actually proud of the proposals we have put forward. And I am proud that it is not just about harsher penalties, but about integrated action. I believe that a great many of the young men and, by the way, others who share these pictures are not even aware that they are in danger of being convicted of child pornography. That is part of the information we are going to provide. And yes, I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that this is a sexual offence. It must be addressed as such, and it must be punished as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183117	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183120	Thank you. Now it is not surprising that the rapporteur will not go into the issue of legislation on maternity and better maternity rights for men. That's what I expected. But I'd like to know if we could still walk a little along the way. Because I really also hear a sincere interest from the rapporteur in reversing this development in some way. One of the points made in the report is that you can make a public campaign with increased information and information for men about maternity. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about that. Could it be considered that this information could also be brought forward to the fathers so that it would be much earlier? The problem is often that they become aware of maternity rights at a time when women may have already informed their workplace that they want to go on maternity leave. So could it be a road we could go together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183221	I would very much like to go with Mrs Trine Torp and others who want to go the same way. I am also actually pleased that we can put the whole legislative debate on the distribution quietly for a moment, and then talk about what we might be able to meet about. I was briefly mentioned in my speech that we have launched an initiative in which, together with the private sector, we are trying to change the culture that exists, both large and medium-sized and small enterprises. Some of the large companies involved include: TDC, Novo Nordisk and others who actually take the lead offer longer maternity leave for men, more economically advantageous conditions, etc. I do not think that an information campaign can stand alone. I think it is an integrated effort to change the culture that exists in the labour market, and there are some places where it is much harder to change culture than others. It is about ensuring that this is something that we men talk to each other about before the woman we are with comes and tells us that we are now so lucky that we have to be fathers, and incidentally also thinking about planning, perhaps even thinking about how our employers and colleagues will react in that situation. And when you have to think about it as a man, it's because it's actually a bit of a taboo sometimes. And I'll answer that in question number two.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183336	Then you will just have another question, because there was something else, I also was a little delighted about • or I am not pleased that the rapporteur is not in favour of better maternity rights for men, but I am pleased that the rapporteur is concerned about this issue of women's reproductive health and the right to their own body. So I just want to hear the rapporteur now have a little better access to the Prime Minister than I do, and I know that the Prime Minister is meeting with the American President: could the rapporteur not send him a small text saying that they should talk about women's right to abortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183417	It is true that your good colleagues in the Radical Left, that is, the cultural radical part of the opposition, have simply spread small notes where tips can be written to the Prime Minister. They've been sent digitally, and now I have to send text messages and stuff. I think that 15-minute conversation with Mr. Knox. Donald Trump will be unusually filled with advice, and we can only be happy about that. To answer quite specifically: I think it is quite awful. I think it is shameful that the world's seemingly only remaining superpower is reintroducing this legislation, putting the weakest women in the world under pressure in some areas where they are having enough already. And I hope the Prime Minister gets a nice mention of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183457	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183500	Thank you. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about KVINFO. So now I am quoting KVINFO when you look up, you get the following message: a Danish national knowledge centre and research library whose task it is to initiate and disseminate research on gender, gender equality and ethnicity. ▪ Now there has been a split because the research library has to be moved to the Royal Library. What should it say now if you look up under KVINFO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183534	Mrs. Marianne Jelved is a good teacher. But unlike some of the others who may have talked a lot about KVINFO, I have actually talked to KVINFO in several rounds before I have chosen to think anything about them. I know what KVINFO is doing. I know what KVINFO is working on. What to say on KVINFO's new introduction page was what was asked about; yes, I think there are more articulate people than I have to decide. Furthermore, I do not think that I should describe in detail what KVINFO, the Danish Road Traffic Authority or, for that matter, others should write in their presentation agencies and media. I was also a little sad that the rapporteur said earlier in her question, 'I think it was to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe', that we wanted to torture or torture KVINFO or close KVINFO, someone also said. At least that's what I took note of. I believe, as I said earlier, that KVINFO is doing a sensible job in the area that I am most familiar with. But just because you get state aid for a few years in some areas does not mean that it lasts forever. It is not therefore an indication that I am going anywhere on the agenda, but merely an indication that we must be able to talk about things without adding unpleasant values and motives to what is being said and done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183653	My question is quite simple, and the rapporteur makes it very complicated, so I shall try again. It could be that there were some viewers who also enjoyed understanding some of this. Therefore I read it again, it is quite common Danish: A Danish national knowledge centre and research library whose task is to initiate and disseminate research on gender, equality and ethnicity. Now the research library is taken out and moved elsewhere, and then the rapporteur as a member of a government party and therefore close to those who take decisions as ministers must have given his curiosity. What does KVINFO become? However, the rapporteur has not considered or asked that question. I am not asking for a completely new quote, but for an ordinary, healthy Danish explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183750	I can feel Mrs. Marianne Jelved's indignation coming up here like a stormy evening at the North Sea, and now I understand what this is all about, so thank you. I do not know if I am such an extra heavy figure here today. You can be a knowledge center without having a research library. There are plenty of examples of this in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183808	The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183812	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to say that I think it is nice to hear that the rapporteur on gender equality has taken the time to meet with KVINFO and is interested in the future of KVINFO. What I would like to ask now, when we have the Left's equal opportunities rapporteur on the platform, is the debate that is in the government's Left on KVINFO: is it a debate that has ended here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183854	I cannot possibly explain what our colleagues in the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance think is finished and finished. After all, we are a three-level government; the Social Democrats themselves have experience of being in it. I've been on the phone with KVINFO several times. We still have the merit of meeting in my office, otherwise I do so with all the organisations that want to see the rapporteur not too impressed by my activity, where I cannot follow it up with action. But allow me to spend the remaining 37 seconds making a comment. I understand that we disagree with this debate on KVINFO, but may I not also point out that this is an equal opportunities report for the whole country. These are young ethnic women who are being held to social control, they are women and men who are being beaten up, they are a lack of equal pay, they are maternity rules, they are about our identity and culture, and what the opposition can deal with in their question to the governing party is so much the issue of KVINFO. Well, come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329183953	The next question is... sorry, here you go, Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184000	I had asked to follow up. I did not ask about the position of the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance. I asked about the position of the Left Party, and what I was asking was whether it was a debate that was concluded and then I had hoped that the rapporteur would say: no, it is such an ongoing debate that we have. So now I just ask quite frankly: is it not an ongoing debate that is being held in the Left Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184031	Yes, of course it is, and I must also apologise if I exposed the microphones to a little extra volume, and apologise in particular to Mrs Pernille Skipper, who looked a little surprised for a moment. It wasn't meant as unkind as it might sound. My past in the king's clothing and defense may have shone through for a moment. The debate is not finished. I mean, we talk about this all the time. I think you can sense that too, if you follow the various media. I've been talking about this for a while. It has been in Politiken, where I said some nice things about the work of KVINFO that I knew about, and also argued, as Mrs Marianne Jelved said before, that I do not believe that the relocation of the research library can be used to identify such a moral and political attack on KVINFO at least by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184115	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184119	Thank you. We must, of course, answer the questions put to us; that must be the premise of being the rapporteur on the platform in this Chamber. That is a very specific question I have. I have some doubts about this, because I think that the rapporteur is wetting a little bit in relation to this with the funds that the Ministry of Integration has given KVINFO in relation to the integration task, that is, the mentor network. So I would just like to ask quite specifically: is official Left policy that these funds should be removed, or is it not official Left policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184155	Well, I am sorry, but I am simply not talking to the Minister for Integration about her area of responsibility when I am not the rapporteur in this area. We don't have a crown granted on this resort. I am sorry to have to reply in this way, but I am not aware of how this mentor network has worked and I do not know the background to the allocation and the budget. I would like to look into this and I would like to be wiser, but I am sorry to have to say that today I have prepared for the equality statement that is on the agenda that we are going to talk about. I understand that the only thing that is relevant to large parts of the opposition now I have to be careful not to include everyone, I'm sorry to ask only about this area. I understand that, but we must also accept it, and now I have said it three times that unfortunately I am not familiar with that area. When the Minister for Integration considers this to be relevant, it is of course the policy of the Left. You do not get me to say for the third time that what our Minister of Integration thinks is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184247	Well, fine, then we have to ask a minister question, because it is a little wonder that, as a part of the Left, one is not aware of whether one of one's own party colleagues, who is a minister, has withdrawn an official policy or not, on the basis of one's own party. But leave it there, we ask it as a ministerial question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184307	Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Then we could also use the agenda item to perhaps talk about all the issues we have actually worked on and prepared ourselves for this debate. I replied very clearly: of course the Minister for Integration draws up the policy of the Left. I really think I had said that twice in the debate, and perhaps that is why I was a little surprised that Mrs Magdalene Maier could ask that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184326	Then we were able to thank the rapporteur (Jakob Engel-Schmidt It has been a pleasure). And then we move on to Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329184340	Thank you so much. I would like to start by commending some elements of the Minister's statement, which I think are ideologically correct, very important and which are not very concrete, but are fundamental, on which it is quite satisfactory to know that we agree. One is that we have come a long way but have not achieved our goal. It is really important that we agree on this, especially the last one, i.e. that we are not in the end. It also says that something must be done if we are to achieve it. We can't just sit down and wait for equality. It is also ideologically very important that we agree on this. Then it also says that it is about equal opportunities for everyone, understood, I assume, not just equal rights, but that there may be a lack of equality in our opportunities, even if we have equal rights on paper. These are three important elements that the government has included in its statement on equality, because we do not have equality in Denmark. In fact, equal pay is progressing, but it is just going so extremely slowly that more than 100 years will pass before we get equal pay if we do not actively do something about it. In the field of maternity, men take an infinitely small share of the wolf. I guess that's only about 7-8 percent. In the case of the total maternity leave, which means not only that there are a lot of men who have a worse and worse relationship with their children than they could otherwise have, but it also spills over on the chance of men being given custody when there are disputes about it. It also rubs off on our gender stereotype roles in the home and on the pay gap between men and women. It is also still the case that it costs approx. 10% the income from life, i.e. Both pay, pensions and everything, for a woman to have a child. And that's per. child! It is therefore a really expensive pleasure for women when they make it up in crowns and ears. At the same time, such things as family relationships and, frankly, who does the dishes at home mean something for women's opportunities to advance in business and for the enormous imbalance that is still at the top of the Danish economy. In other words, both among board members, which is often what we are discussing, but also between top managers and middle managers, there is a very big distortion. Because it's just easier to reconcile such an arrogant career with the expectations and responsibilities that society and the outside world attach to such a classic male role than with the classical role of women. And then I understand that many women are provoked when they are told that they have to count their eggs, because basically they are probably a little more concerned with counting what they get in wages and pensions. That is how the labour market challenges are. Fortunately, many other rapporteurs have mentioned this, and this is also mentioned in the government's statement in many different ways. This also applies outside Denmark, and I have noticed that the Minister is very active in relation to the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and girls, that is. the right to abortion and sex education and contraception. This is so important, not least at a time when the so-called leader of the free world is actively losing women and girls the world over precisely those rights and that access. Then it is the question of whether digital sexual abuse of young people, especially young girls and young women, is an expression not only of the fact that there is something wrong in our legal system and our police, but also of the fact that there are cultural problems. It is basically a problem with Danish culture that there are people who can justify that in this way they violate another person's sex, sexuality, privacy, the right to control their own body, because they have allowed themselves to have a sexuality and share an image, without necessarily implying that the whole world should see it. I think it is important that we also address it, especially because it is something that we often devote a great deal to and speak as a special Danish value, but also because it is something that we still have as a special Danish problem in relation to Danish culture. Then we can sign integration contracts and everything else on that Denmark has equality, but I would venture the claim that when it still happens to girls and women that they are exhibited in this way and are systematically bullied, made approximations by foreign men on that basis, well then it doesn't matter what you sign, then it's not real. Everyday sexism, sexual harassment at work, is also still something that you experience both such a humorous sense of humor, but also being caught on in an ordinary discoteksbar in the nightlife in Denmark happens, and we are not able to do enough about it. Social control among religious minorities in Denmark is also a huge problem that we are able to talk about incredibly much in the Danish Parliament, but in reality it is not possible to do as much about, at least not as much as we could. In particular, prevention, that is to say, helping families where there are generational gaps and world understandings and world perceptions where you do not meet each other until it develops into a crisis situation and where a young person has to leave his family or is forced to make the choice between parents and some other things you want in life, there is a need for us to put in; it is not about hitting people on top of the head. Then I have not even talked about the violence in the family that is still taking place in Denmark, where many thousands, especially women and of course also men, but especially women, are subjected to both physical and psychological coercion and violence and can still experience that there is no place in, for example. Emergency shelters. For example: they will also experience, if they do not have a job and are on cash assistance when they leave a man and go to the shelter, that they are still subjected to the so-called spouse dependency in the cash aid, which means that they cannot get any money but are financially dependent on the violent husband they have just left. It's old. But fortunately, because I like to make such a sandwich of good, bad, well then feminism has also become very trendy, so now even the Left Minister for Gender Equality has come along and has become a feminist, and I think we should just bring them over here in the last corner of the hall. Then we all agree that it is good that we define ourselves as those who will fight for equal rights and equal opportunities, regardless of gender, sexuality, gender identity, colour, etc., and that this is something that we should be proud to define ourselves as. And feminism is also for men, as many other rapporteurs have pointed out from up here, it is also something that involves men. It's not women against men, it's women and men together. Because, of course, there are also gender equality problems for men, and many have already mentioned them. Finally, I would like to say that there is not a finger to put on either the excellent conferences and the actions and everything else that is listed in the statement on equal opportunities. It is all positive and good, and praise for it, and it applies both to what has been put into effect and to what is intended to be put into effect. And I also very much agree that what the Minister writes about creating space for the debate is an important thing. But at some point we also have to take ourselves, each other, and not least the Minister, seriously and say: what will happen to all the fine words? Because if we agree that it is not just about equal rights, but also about equal opportunities, and we agree that we are not in the end, and we agree that something needs to be done to achieve it, just as the government has written in the statement, then perhaps something more needs to be done before it really really does. There is a slight tendency for these discussion debates to end up in a little bit in hats and glasses, and then we do not get much further. So I would just like to ask the Minister two very specific questions, and I have six seconds to do that: what will the Minister do to reduce unequal pay? What will the Minister do to get more fathers to take some more maternity leave? Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185351	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185411	Thank you. Equality is both a value and a quality for Denmark. This is important for us as individuals and as a society. That leaves us free, but sometimes we can be in doubt about what equality is; at least it is an area in which there are major political discussions. For the Liberal Alliance, the word says it all, it's about equal status. We must be faced with the law and, as a society, we must recognise the equal value of people. This means that you should not be stamped because of gender, colour, sexuality, religion or other things, but for who you are and for the actions you take. As we could also hear in the Minister's speech, we have fortunately come very far in Denmark, Denmark is one of the most equal countries in the world. Of course, there are still areas where we can improve, there are still some real equality challenges in Denmark. For the Liberal Alliance, it is the negative social control that we see in particularly Muslim environments; it is the institutional challenges that we as a father face in divorce cases in the State Administration in matters of parental authority and association; it is the military service that does not include women; and in the end it is the challenges that we as a society and a system have in providing room for diversity and minorities, among other things. in relation to LGBT persons. These are challenges for which we, as politicians, can help change the framework and for which we, as a society, should take seriously and do something about it. As far as we are concerned, the biggest challenges are not in terms of equality between women and men, but two of the biggest challenges are really about equality between men and women. It is important that we do not cling to an outdated approach to equality. We believe that KVINFO has had this, and that is why we are calling for KVINFO not to have State aid in the future. The other side of the coin is that equality should not become a starting point for offsetting different preferences. This applies to the newly established family, where parents must be able to choose for themselves how the barsel should proceed. Action must also be given priority in relation to the real challenges. It should not be about hairdresser prices or discoteks entry or holidays due to menstrual pain, nor should it be a platform to talk women or others down. It is serious when a recurring discussion becomes about whether there should be women's quotas on boards. The new generation of women generally train more and with higher grades than their contemporaries. Women are not a weak sex that must be helped by the state through positive rights. That is not the self-understanding we will pass on to the next generation of women. No, you young girls and we a little older women can do it themselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185742	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few questioners, and the first is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185747	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. I did not really understand the rapporteur's definition of what KVINFO's task is. There is nothing in KVINFO, so it has little to do with women. In fact, gender research is more broadly driven when we talk about the library, but let it be. What I just want to hear is: does the rapporteur agree with Mrs Lindahl that KVINFO stands for state feminism and political propaganda?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185823	I agree that KVINFO does not merely convey objective knowledge. KVINFO also has a subjective political agenda, and we in the Liberal Alliance do not think that we should spend taxpayers' money on that, nor do we think that, for example, we should not spend money on it. CEPOS or other think tanks or interested organisations which have a political agenda must be supported by state crowns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185852	Then I would like to know what specific examples are there of KVINFO running with a certain political propaganda.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185904	Something like that, for example. Women's quotas are, after all, a specific political agenda. It is not an objective dissemination of knowledge. It is an agenda, it is a message and it is a policy. We want women's quotas in Denmark, says KVINFO. The Liberal Alliance does not want that, and many women do not want it. A lot of people don't want to be hired because they're women. They want to be hired because they're the best at the job. When you convey another message, that is to say that we should have women's quotas in Denmark, we do not believe that we represent the general population, and we do not believe that tax dollars should be used to convey such messages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185950	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329185951	I am a little curious to hear about the relationship of the Liberal Alliance with the law we have in Denmark, which is to ensure that the whole talent stock is in play. So what we call the Danish model for women in management. Where does the Liberal Alliance stand? After all, it is no secret that the Liberal Alliance was not the most cheerful when the former government implemented the law. But now the Liberal Alliance is in government and is responsible for the administration and also for the fact that this law is actually going to work. So where does the Liberal Alliance stand when it comes to that law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190037	Liberal Alliance would like to see many more women in leading positions in Danish companies. It is something that can benefit the Danish economy, and it can benefit the companies. There are studies that actually show that it is not only if you take in more women, but if you generally have a very versatile composition, then can benefit the bottom line of companies and benefit Denmark's GDP. So we really want more women to come in, but we are not in favour of legislation on this. We believe that it is the best qualified person to get the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190117	Let me get this straight. After all, we agree on the content part, that is, the fact that the potential is enormous. Is it my understanding that the Liberal Alliance government party supports government policy in this area, which means supporting the Danish model for women in leadership, or is the Liberal Alliance, within the government, working against this policy and trying, through its government participation, to have this legislation removed? How is that supposed to be? Are you for the law for which the government is for, or are you against the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190158-2	The Liberal Alliance does not oppose the government in any areas and we do not want to remove any legislation that the government stands for. We are part of the government and we support the overall government work. We do not intend to remove any law or have any new legislation on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190224	The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190227	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentioned the fact that the Liberal Alliance is very interested in more women in senior positions, because it benefits the economy, and it is good for democracy, but it is also important that the best qualified person is accepted for the job. I would like to ask a question following on from that with qualifications and democracy, and that in general it is good with diversity because it affects the bottom line positively. I must admit that when I look at the composition of some of the government's most powerful committees, I do not actually see a single woman, and it is neither in the government's coordination committee, the government's economic committee, the government's security committee, the government's appointment committee or the government's EU implementation committee. What does the rapporteur think about the fact that not a single woman is qualified enough to sit on any of these committees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190328	Well, I think it would be nice to see some more women in these committees, so I can only encourage women to sign up to try to get into these committees. There is no legislation or anything else that forbids it. So it's up to women to say they want to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190348	But it is not the case that the women themselves should join forces; it is actually something that the government, the management, has to deal with. I just want to know if it doesn't surprise the Liberal Alliance... a party that is in government and that cares a lot about qualifications and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190416	I don't know if that's surprising. In other words, if women are not particularly keen to apply for these posts and apply to those committees, then I must not decide that they should. It is up to women to say that they want to do this and then take the education, get the qualifications and show the interests that are needed. The women in question are women who sit in Parliament and are so weak that they only get into a committee if the government comes up and says: "Little woman, please join us here." I think that is simply degrading to women. It must be up to women to take an initiative if they want something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190503	The next question is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190504	Thank you. I look forward to the Minister for Gender Equality joining the government's Economics Committee in a moment. I just want to say that I support it. I think that the Minister should give this serious thought. Apparently, you can just sign up on the field, and then you sit there. I think that's really exciting. It's gonna be really good tomorrow! I would like to ask about this with which organisations are to receive public support. Because it seems that the position of the Liberal Alliance is such a special principle. I believe that what was the criterion was whether one had a political position; then one should not have public support. And there I come to think of all the parties, for example, which receive public support and have strong political views; the scouts, which I believe have an attitude towards nature, and there will certainly be some, perhaps sustainable agriculture, who will think that is just enough politically, that the scouts have a position on it; football clubs, which have a political attitude to sport, that is to say, sport policy; the Acting League. So there are just so many organisations, and all the youth parties are receiving public support. So I am just thinking straight away: does the Liberal Alliance also believe that all those organisations should be deprived of their public support and that that is what they are working for? Or is it just KVINFO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190631-2	All the examples that Mrs Pernille Skipper has given us now are parties or associations that work across political attitudes that support young people and children in their sport, who are in charge of doing some socially supportive work across political positions. It has nothing to do with politics; they do not pursue politics. And with regard to the political parties, I would say: yes, they are pursuing politics. And, as far as I know, there is uniform support. For each mandate you have, each party gets support that is totally equally distributed, regardless of the political direction you take. So I cannot compare that in any way with KVINFO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190730	I don't understand. In fact, I do not understand, because now the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur clearly says that it is those organisations which do not have a political attitude that were the first criteria and which work across political positions. Well, it's for philanthropic nature policy if you, as a scouting organization, have a political attitude towards nature. That's politics too, isn't it? If this is not an honest answer for KVINFO, it is not a party political organisation, it operates all kinds of knowledge sharing, etc. in relation to gender • that the Liberal Alliance just doesn't like KVINFO's views, but that they are okay with the Scouts' attitudes and the football clubs' attitudes and all the other attitudes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190819	If that were the case, I would make a suggestion that the CEPOS received public support, because the CEPOS has positions that we agree with far along the way. So if it were a question of whether or not one liked an organisation in terms of obtaining public support, we would suggest that the CEPOS should also be supported. We don't. So it has nothing to do with whether we like KVINFO or not. This has to do with the fact that they have a political agenda, and we should not use tax dollars for that. However, if it were finally to start looking at their own organization, it would suit KVINFO. They have 22 employees, and 20 of them are women and two are men. What is the point if you want to stand up for equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190910	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329190914	Thank you. For once, a rapporteur managed to shake me through my entire nervous system. It's really an experience. KVINFO is a research institution and research is free in Denmark. It is in universities as well as anywhere else where public funds are researched, and no matter what the results are, an institution that receives state funds, but is a research institution that does not come along, it should not be sorted out by the politicians in the Folketing, because then we are completely out in hemp. KVINFO is a research institution and is therefore allowed to have research which argues for quotas or shows how quotas work elsewhere in the world. A very close neighbouring country of ours actually has quotas by law on the percentage of women on boards, and that is Norway. So it's not completely crazy to raise that theme. There are members of the Radical Left who are in favour of quotas and some who do not. This is a political discussion. This can be explained by a research institution which would like to have an opinion, otherwise it would appear. So I would just like to ask whether it was not a mistake for the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to make it sound as if it were a political assessment that it is what comes from the institution that makes it whether they should be supported or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191049	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191051	I hope that I can put some peace in Mrs Marianne Jelved's nervous system again by saying that there are two parts of this. One, as the rapporteur says, is research, and no one is talking about stopping that research. It is moved to the Royal Library, where the Minister of Culture has estimated it to be best. No one says that research should be done less. It is not, of course, a downgrade. You've chosen to move it to where you think it's best. It's one thing. The second point is that you bring some results from research on an objective basis. That is super fine, we all need it, and they must do so on the basis of the research that they must continue to do in the library. But when you go out and advocate women's quotas, it is a subjective assessment and a subjective desire and a political desire, and it is true that Norway has introduced it. After all, it is a political decision and, as the rapporteur himself said, it is a political debate. Yeah, that's right. It is a political discussion, and that is why Norway has had a political majority in favour of that fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191215	It is perfectly legal for KVINFO, for example. examine how it has worked with quotas for women on board boards and have it clarified so that we can also get a knowledge of it here in the country and elsewhere in the world, and then we can discuss it on that basis. Because it's worked in Norway. In fact, they have a very high proportion of women on their corporate boards, and that is why it is legal to put forward, and that certainly should not be called, even though the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance has expressed himself in such a way that state support for institutions is given following a political assessment of what they are saying. Then it makes no sense anymore, so it is not a free democracy in which we live. Then it is politically governed from in here, and neither is it with the contribution of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191310	It is quite true that it is good that some people are checking whether quotas are working, and it is good that KVINFO has checked whether quotas are working. They have examined many other things that we have enjoyed very much, and the results have been a great pleasure, and they must continue to investigate such things. It is also perfectly legal, as the rapporteur says, if you have a result of research and if that research shows that quotas work, then it is perfectly legal to put it forward. But KVINFO does not stop there. KVINFO continues to fight for the introduction of women's quotas in Denmark, and that is where the dividing line is. That is where the difference is between producing objective results and then pursuing policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191400	Thank you. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191403	Thank you. I just have to ask the equality rapporteur to ask the Minister for Education and also the Minister for the Elderly if they would not want to come into one of the committees dealing with the economic policy of the government. Having said that, I would like to go back to the political point of view, because the Gadejuristen also has opinions on issues that we are discussing in the Folketing. How, then, is the rapporteur's argument to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191446	Excuse me, could you repeat that? I simply did not hear the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191448	We need to remember the charges. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191455	I repeat it. It is in relation to this issue that we are also dealing with in the Danish Parliament and in the parliamentary committees, and here I am thinking in particular of the Gadejuristen, which is also examining issues that we think are important and relevant. I understand that this is a problem, so what I am asking is a deepening of how it can be a problem, for example, that. The Gadejuristen has political views on issues on which we also have political views.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191542	I do not think it is possible to compare the Gadejurist with, for example. KVINFO. The Gadejuristen supports and helps some of the most vulnerable in our society; they are so far out in everything and need so much help. And if you want to equate women in general with the social group that the Gadejuristen is helping, I can say that I will certainly not do that; the Liberal Alliance will not do that. I mean, I think it's crazy to compare the two groups with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191629	Thank you. I was just wondering if I got a second question. Is it true that the Gadejurist believes that we should decriminalize drugs? And then a supplementary question, because we just heard that the rapporteur of the Left had met with KVINFO. Has the Liberal Alliance's gender equality rapporteur also met with KVINFO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191657	No, I haven't met with KVINFO. And yes, the Gadejurist wants to decriminalize drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191703	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329191714	Thank you to the Minister for Equal Opportunities Statement. I would also like to start with the positive. There are, in fact, elements in this statement which have been positive and which we very much agree with in the alternative, so I would like to acknowledge the good elements of the statement. One of the good elements is the recognition that there are a large number of problems in the field of equal opportunities in Denmark, which we have a political obligation to address. It is also recognised that it is not just about gender in isolation, but about norms and identity understandings that help to limit equal opportunities on many different parameters in society such as education, the labour market, family and street, etc. Here I must add the comment that I very much hope that the Minister will support some of the motions for resolutions which the alternative will put forward. Some of them are with Enhedslisten, SF and Radical Left, and they act among others. to recognise men who have had a change of sex as a father, that is to say that men who have been born women can be described as a father in a relationship with a woman rather than being named a co-mother, as the law of the Children's Law actually says today. It was just an example and we will have three motions for resolutions on this subject, but they will be tabled next week. It is also recognised in this equality statement that knowledge about gender equality and the challenges we have in Denmark in the field of gender equality is a key component in addressing gender equality in Denmark and that we need more knowledge to solve these issues. In fact, in this statement, I think that the Minister completely points out the myth that equality is a left-wing project, which is one of the things we have heard from the Liberal Alliance over the past few days. And I would very, very much like to sign for that to the Minister, because equality is a joint democratic project in Denmark. Of course, there are also some elements that we are a little bit critical of. We agree that there is a lack of knowledge in the field of equal opportunities in Denmark. If we compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries, we can see that we in Denmark do not have much research on gender equality. We are low in relation to the funds allocated to research into gender equality. This is something we can do better, and when we discuss KVINFO, it is also interesting to note that, on the one hand, the statement addresses the lack of knowledge and the desire to give priority to knowledge and, on the other hand, to cut some of the research which KVINFO had as its starting-up objective, i.e. more knowledge and more research on equality in Denmark. Then it may be that you put it into the Royal Library, but there are some resources in that exercise that you shouldn't be completely blind to, and we think that is really a shame. Something that is not directly addressed here in the gender statement, and which we in the Alternative think is really important and also about the knowledge perspective here, is that at political level in Denmark we tend to use our own personal experience as arguments, or we use stories or feelings from our own life or someone we know. For example, you have... have no problem not going on maternity leave and feel that the conditions are fine enough for them. So we use personal experience, and I have often heard women politicians say: Well I am a woman and have been elected to the Folketing, and that has not been a problem for me. If I can do it, anyone else can do it. These are arguments based on personal attitudes and personal experience. What if we did it in the tax or financial field, that is to say, on the basis of our own household economy, we argued why we think the national economy should move in one direction or another. So in Denmark we really need the arguments for why we want to move equality in a particular direction to be based on knowledge and research rather than being based on personal stories. This is a task that I think we are all facing, and that is why we need to have more research in the field of equality in Denmark, and that is why we need to be better at using that research when we argue about equality. Something we also lack in the report are some slightly more action-oriented and active objectives of what can be done to better address the issues we have addressed. And with all due respect to the Minister, for whom I have very great sympathy, there is little too much hot air or too many loose declarations of intent in the statement, in other words in relation to what might actually be, if we really wanted to raise this level of ambition. For then there could have been some things that had some slightly more action-based elements in them, and I can give you an example. There are, of course, a lot of elements in this equality statement, and there are mention of initiatives that you want to take. You want to inform about rights and equality in ethnic minority communities, and you want to launch a study, and you want to step up your efforts to combat digital sexual abuse. It would also like to examine young people's perceptions of body, gender and sexuality and make nationwide campaigns on violence in close relationships as well as studies on mutual partner violence. But will also make a campaign to get men to take more maternity leave and give support and support to attract Eurogames and WorldPride to Copenhagen, and I could continue. There are many more things that you would like to examine, support and strength. It's fine and it's really good. It's just not enough. We must also act. I fully agree that, in order to act on something, one must of course also have knowledge of it. But there are a great many elements that we already know about. We already know that there is a major problem among young people in the form of digital sexual abuse. We know the extent that has been studied that every other young person has seen nude images of comrades being sent around, and one in five has experienced on their own body sharing private pictures. We know that it is there, and what is then done is a very fine initiative by the government, but it is not something that is binding. If you really want to achieve objectives that are binding, then you have to say that all young Danes must be taught digital ethics. They need to be taught how it can feel to be subjected to such a digital sex abuse. However, voluntary information material is being made available to schools, and it is a very, very fine material. But it doesn't oblige. So we just want something more commitment. As an example, I would like to mention that on page 6 of the statement on equal opportunities it says about day-care institutions and day-care services: equal opportunities must be considered from children are very small, and day-care provision and the education system must challenge everyone so that they become as talented as possible and all talents come into play. It is a fine statement of intent, but one could also consider moving on some words in such a statement of intent, so one could for example. wrote that everyone who works with children and young people should know about and relate to equality in their professional activities and how children are gendered. Because if we wrote it instead, we would require that knowledge to be implemented by the people who work with our children and young people. This is what we want from the next equality report, so that next year there may be much more active objectives for how we can solve these problems, because we all know that they are there. It's kind of the same as with the barsel: a campaign is fine, but campaigns don't work very well when it comes to behavior controlling. We have seen this many times before, so I would like to bet some kind of dinner or something else that the campaign you want to launch to get men to take more maternity leave will not work. When we, as politicians, are able to recognise the problems that exist, we are also obliged to formulate some political objectives which can actually touch on the problems. We may not agree on the tools, and that's okay. In the alternative, we would like to see a maternity model in which we reserve three months for father. We'd like that. We may not agree on the tools, but let us agree to have more action-oriented objectives. And perhaps we could also agree to dare a little more and try some new things off, where we may not necessarily know that it is just what needs to be done, but which may be able to set things in motion so that they do not become an end in themselves, but tools to push on a development that we would like to have. So let's be more brave when it comes to trying out new things. The Minister writes that it is the Minister's aim to create room for debate. I would like to acknowledge and thank you for that, and I would also like to say from the point of view of the Alternative that we would very much like to go into that room. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192650	There's a single questioner. It's sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192654	Thank you. Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier and I have the pleasure of meeting here for a debate on both equality and also education and research. In this way I have become accustomed to listening to often also very good and inspiring speeches. In fact, I got answers to several of my questions. I wondered whether we were in favour of quotas and for the division of the bass and something like that. But I understood that if there were a majority in the Folketing, you might be ready to make an agreement. In fact, I was interested to hear the alternative's position on the initiative we have launched, in which we are trying to mobilise private companies, in other words, to try to get them to take the lead in motivating men to stay longer at home, to take more maternity leave, to take more responsibility and, moreover, to embrace it as a value recognised at work and as a quality which one really thinks it is sensible to provide when hiring. Instead of cutting family time, could we not strengthen such efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192754	First, we recognise all the initiatives that are trying to push. It is not that we do not recognise them. We just don't believe that's enough. It is the framing that is also interesting, i.e. what we do if, for example, we do. Says that we have a maternity model in which we reserve three months for father, as well as there are already a few months reserved for mother. It's not about taking anything from women, but we just give father the same right, or the other parent, whatever it is for a gender. That's what this is all about. So in this way we recognise all initiatives in relation to the private labour market. However, one could also try to see why it is always the private labour market for which we must make such objectives and campaigns. Why couldn't we tell a government agency that now we're trying a model of yours? It is as much the public labour market as we hope will have to improve the development that we would like to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192842-2	Now Things must not hang me up on the exact figures, but when you look at the public sector, both municipal, regional and state, I remember that it actually looks quite reasonable when it comes to the development of the number of female bosses, managers and other things. Unfortunately, I do not think that we in this Chamber will agree today to take a board and make it a guinea pig for various quotas and other things, but I would like to sign for creativity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192917	Thank you. But I can tell you on this occasion that we have actually made a proposal. This is not something we have tabled a motion for a resolution on, but we have had the Minister of Employment in consultation with regard to making an attempt on a government board. It's not about maternity. It was then about the anonymisation of applications, because it turns out that ethnic and non-ethnic Danes experience an enormous amount of discrimination in relation to who is called for an interview. So it's actually an experimental approach to it, and we think it's needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192944	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329192951	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying to the Minister for Gender Equality that I am not asking the Minister for Equal Opportunities questions, that is to say that she is considering with herself and her government what the task of KVINFO should be, or whether it may be the same task, what the rapporteur of the Left almost said it could be. I think it is important to have an independent institution such as KVINFO, which can bring in new knowledge that we have not sought because we may not think about it. It's just a call. So for the statement itself, which I think is excellent. Very far along the way, it is virtually all parties that are behind the areas of effort that I think they are for most of them financed by the rate pool, and that also means that there are a lot of parties behind it. That's why there's a lot to recognize, and there's a lot of good intentions, and it's built up really well. To the viewers or listeners who may see or hear the debate here, I must say that there are a large number of areas of action which are also concerned with a subject which I will address separately: violence in close relations, where a new national unit, etc., is being set up, to work on it. Information and knowledge about violence in close relationships as a field of action have also been strengthened. Both are excellent! There is also a fact list of what we really know and what the world looks like, and now I take a few examples of violence: It is estimated that approx. 33,000 women and 13,000 men each year are subjected to physical partner violence. Approx. 300 men and 1,800 women contact an emergency room each year as a result of having been subjected to violence from a partner. In 2015, approx. 2,000 women and 2,000 children a stay at a women's crisis center. And now I'm gonna jump into it a little bit: 74 percent. of the perpetrators of violence who have been treated by Dialogue Against Violence have grown up in homes with violence. 88% Danes surveyed believe that domestic violence against women and men is always unacceptable and should be punished. It is a large number of facts that illustrate what Denmark looks like right now. That is what we use as a starting point when we give priority to gender equality rapporteurs and together with the Minister for Gender Equality and the Government, and we hope that we can take the right path. What I am then a little upset about in these days is that I remember that some years ago, and I cannot say whether it was 5 or 7 years ago, or when it was, but at least after the year 2000 it was 29 000 women who were subjected to domestic violence and 10,000 men who were subjected to domestic violence. So it has increased by 4,000 and 3,000 respectively during the time when we have worked intently to solve this problem of violence and to reduce it. That is why I have to ask: are we doing this in the right way? Should we really try to look at things differently? Could it be imagined that in the Chamber we are broadly party-wide and set specific objectives which indicate that we want to rid ourselves of violence in close relationships? Could we set ourselves as an objective that every year we should reduce the number of cases of violence in close relations with some number or otherwise indicate a direction of what we would like, which also in some way obliges us to follow it up in a way that may be more concrete than we have been used to? I do not think we should do this in all areas, but I think we should try somewhere. And that's where I think the violence is one of the most brutal. And I am a little sad that there is no statistics on how many children are experiencing violence in their homes between their mother and father and perhaps also against themselves. We could try to give priority to action that works, because there are also areas where we know what works. We know that dialogue against violence actually works against perpetrators of violence, but it is a figure of millions that we have set aside for it. Perhaps we should set different priorities and set even more off for that task. When we know that a great many of the people who commit violence have grown up in families with violence, it has no end unless we try to find out in some way what works and prioritise it in a different way than we do today, where we almost sometimes symbolically set off one-digit millions and where we could develop more people to work with Dialogue against Violence, which actually works. I'm just taking it as an example. But you could have a whole series of examples of what actually works and then try to say: we are prioritising this for a number of years to see if we can manage to reduce the number of cases of violence in close relationships. So it is, you might say, a hand-out or an attempt to try to take a step more than we seem to be doing in the real world here in the way we prioritise. When 88%. The fact is that the citizens find domestic violence unacceptable and believe that violence must be punished also provides food for thought. Actually, I think you could be punished for domestic violence. I haven't looked into this, but if you can and this is really an experiment of thought, you could say that the perpetrator in the home who gets a penalty can choose to have that penalty replaced by a course of dialogue against violence, because it actually turns out that you can get, for example. men who practice violence in the home, to refrain from doing so once they have been through the task of Dialogue against Violence. In short, should we not try to set targets for change so that it succeeds and so that we get what we all want, namely a better society for the people who live here? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329193623	Then we thank the radical rapporteur and then it is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329193631	In the SF we can agree with the visions in the gender statement: No one should be discriminated against or have unequal opportunities because of their gender, sexuality or gender identity in Denmark. In fact, we also think that there are many fine initiatives in the report. We fully support the finding that equality is a fundamental freedom in our society and that Denmark is among the most equal countries in the world, but also that there is room for improvement. I would say that when I look at the statement Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff also mentioned it a little • I think there's a little bit of copy-paste about it. I'm kind of with it from 2016 and the one from 2017 here, and if you turn around on the next pages, you can see that they are very similar to each other. Continuity is fine when you do such a job here, but there should also be some progression in it. And there, on the other hand, I think that the statement is more of a yes, a statement than a real action plan with prospects and future visions of how we can achieve some improvements. At any rate, I am going to think whether the government actually has some concrete ambitions and objectives for what can be improved and how. A little in line with what Mrs Marianne Jelved said, I lack some success criteria. What does it take for us to think that we are actually in the goal or that there is a progression in it? Or what kind of bar the government wants to lift? Because the statement says that the government wants to lift the bar. But we cannot really know where that bar is to be lifted if we have not set a target for it. I do not think that the equality report provides any significant answers to these questions. This applies to a wide range of issues where we in the SF believe that the government still lacks clear visions and answers to the major challenges of gender equality in Denmark. The first is about equal pay. In Denmark today there is still no equal pay for work of equal value. And how do we ensure that the large pay gap between men and women in the labour market is reduced? Another major issue is the importance of a gender-based labour market, where clearly most women work in the public sector and clearly most men work in the private sector. What will the government do to prevent women from being hit harder by the savings that the government itself has imposed on the public sector, especially in view of the fact that wages in the public sector are also lagging far behind the private labour market? A third question to which I believe the government lacks answers is the gender impact of the measures that the government itself has put into the world. The ceiling on cash benefits is one example which particularly affects single parents, three of whom are women. The same applies to the 225-hour rule, where we know that violence-stricken women and women living in highly controlled environments find it difficult to meet the requirements. It is not beneficial to equality in any way. A fourth area is trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings, as stated in the statement, is a gross violation of human rights, and it includes, in particular, women who have been involved in prostitution. It therefore requires Denmark to be a strong international player in the global equal opportunities effort if we are to achieve it. It also requires that we address the problem, namely that there are men who think it is quite okay to buy themselves for sexual services in women. When we are discussing equality today, there is one last very topical issue that I, like many others today, cannot fail to touch on. The minister writes in his introduction to the statement that we have come a long way and this is a quote: "We have come a long way with equality in Denmark. But what we have fought for for so many years must not be taken for granted because it has certainly not come on its own. I very much agree with that, because it has taken many years of struggle and it has never come on its own. It has come from people who took an initiative to change social standards and structures, both in government offices and, above all, in the population. One of the people was Nynne Koch, who in 1964 began to collect and systematize women's relevant literature in a research overview. She wanted a significant change in society. Women were to be treated in the same way as men, and in this respect information, knowledge and research were essential. The foundation stones she laid were formalized in 1982 in an independent institution with the support of the government. It is now known to most people, KVINFO. The government, as most of us probably know, is indulging in KVINFO with the Royal Library or perhaps completely closing the institution. A rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, a government-led party, has stated that KVINFO stands for state feministism and conducts political propaganda and that the aim is to remove all state aid from KVINFO. I and the SF do not think that there is much equality in that perspective. In the SF we believe that KVINFO has had a crucial role to play in the work on gender equality in Denmark. As an independent knowledge and development centre, which has been gathering, producing and disseminating knowledge of equality for more than 30 years, KVINFO has been a driving force and a voice in the field of equality that we could never have been without. Therefore, it is also interesting to clarify here when the Minister for Gender Equality is to round off whether the Minister shares the view: whether the Minister for Gender Equality recognises that KVINFO has had an impact on equality in Denmark, or whether it is also the view of the Minister for Gender Equality that KVINFO is an expression of state feminism and political propaganda.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194307	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194310	Thank you for your comments and your speech. I was particularly concerned that Mrs Trine Torp, like Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, remarked that the equality statement in the structure slightly resembles it from last year. I would just like to note that we have at least been good enough to buy some new pictures to put in. After all, not everyone has found the opportunity to do so. Prank aside, it's about to stay at the end of the debate. SF was one of the parties that prior to their coming into government it was not because we have to go back along the boulevards of the past, but nevertheless had some very clear views on both quotas, composition of the boards and also like to see cash legislation. I actually have respect for that. I respect that they say: we believe that this is working and we want to report it ideologically. I did not quite sense the speech, and it is possible that I did not listen to whether you have the same values and attitude and such things and have a desire to impose them on some of the areas where you do not think things are going fast enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194418	I am very pleased to have that question, because in the SF we have the clear view that equality does not come about by itself and that we have to try some things out. We have to try to see if we can push it further forward by earmarking some of the maternity leave for men. We also need to find out whether there are some places where it actually makes sense to make quotas for composition. But the questioner is quite right that there were things that we fought very hard for before we came into government that we could not get through with in the government. Unfortunately, we could not get through with earmarked maternity leave, but that does not change our attitude that this is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194504-2	My last question will probably not be the big surprise. It is just that I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the same thing that I asked the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, about: the fact that the government has launched a broader initiative, because we want to change culture. We have a number of companies, large and small and medium-sized, with whom more and more are constantly coming. I myself believe that this is a good way both to nudge in order to use a modern language but also to change culture and make it socially acceptable. Does the rapporteur see any potential in this? And if so, how much potential?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194538	I think it is very good to take such steps. I just think that there is a difference between the level of ambition of the questioner and mine, or I might call it patience. I guess I don't have that patience to wait for things to go just as quietly and slowly out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194600	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194603	I would also like to thank Mrs Trine Torp for her speech. What I'd like to ask you is this fight, which, among other things, is... The Socialist People's Party is fighting to ensure that some more women enter senior positions. What I am hearing is that it seems to me that there are simply too few women in positions of leadership. So far, so good. Here I come, for example. Even from a municipality, Helsingør Municipality, where we have a female mayor and a board of four people, four directors, three of whom are women and one is man, that is, he is outnumbered. Is that a problem, too? Or is it only true when women are outnumbered? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194647	After all, it is not a problem in each small institution or company what the composition is like, that is, that it should be fifty-fifty. What we are talking about is that there is a broad trend in society which shows that women are under-represented in powerful positions, and I think that is a problem. I really think that is a problem. I'm not buying this premise that women can join themselves. The positions we are talking about are therefore not some where you simply join or seek a position. It is often about positions where there is an internal recruitment. There are some extremely strong networks between men that they have been able to build, but which are unfortunately very self-sufficient. If I had to set goals, it is not for the individual small municipality or the individual small board of directors that it is in fact broadly speaking. I want to see this pattern change, and I can't see that. I do not even see it here in the Danish Parliament, where there are steps backwards every time new members of parliament are elected or a new government comes in. Then it goes back with the representation of women in the most powerful bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194805	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to ask another question, and it concerns Muslim environments here in Denmark, where, unfortunately, there is social control in quite a few places. There are, among other things: women who are oppressed. I would like to know if SF thinks there is a big problem here and what SF thinks there is a need to do to solve the huge problem there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194838	I do not think it has ignored the rapporteur's attention that this is actually an issue of great concern to the SF, because we are concerned about equality, regardless of the environment in which people grow up, including ethnic minority communities and Muslim environments. Of course, we must combat all kinds of oppression, including in these environments, and I believe that the greatest strength lies in civil society. Many of the initiatives that have been taken around Denmark, where district meetings are held, help to undertake some of these tasks of bringing forward some of their young people, including their young women, and it can be said that KVINFO's mentor network is also an initiative which should have this purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194938	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. As I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, we are actually going to the Minister, and that is the Minister for Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329194952	That's right. Thank you for that, President. Let me start by thanking you for a very good debate. Allow me to say that I do not really feel that equality is about freedom and freedoms for everyone, and that it is about freedom to simply be who you are and to live the life you want to live. We must safeguard that, and we must defend it. Everyone must have the freedom to express themselves, to unfold regardless of gender, sexual orientation and gender identity. Yes, we have come a long way with equality in Denmark, and I am glad that several of the rapporteurs also emphasise this. And yes, I am also pleased that many rapporteurs note that I am also saying that we are not in the end. We must not just stand by because then I myself am concerned that we risk replacing progress with stalemate and perhaps even decline. The recent session of the United Nations Women's Commission in New York, where several of the rapporteurs also participated, really reminds us very clearly that equality is absolutely not something to be taken for granted. This is something that we must constantly promote. We have to do that at home, and that's what we're going to do in the big world. For too many places around the world, women's rights have been put out of effect. This applies to the right to decide over one's own body, and it also applies to the fact that a lot of people live a life of violence. We cannot ignore that and, fortunately, this is something I find out that we are in agreement on a cross-party basis. We stand firm on women's rights even when the subject becomes sensitive to the old-fashioned thinking. My view is that we should also remember to be as consistent with the problems of equality at home as we are when we come together on the gender agenda in the wider world. For in Denmark there are also places of work, and fortunately several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned this, where equality has actually been abolished, where there are women who, as such, do not have the right to decide over their own bodies and do not have the right to decide over their own lives, but where there are simply outdated standards, traditions, family patterns, etc., which means that many girls and women from ethnic minorities are simply not allowed to benefit from the opportunities that we have in Denmark. Of course, this does not apply to all girls and women from ethnic minorities. Fortunately, there are many who take an active part in the debate, who are taking courses that work and who experience in general being allowed to live a life of freedom, but that does not change the fact that there are too many who continue to experience that their lives are limited by social control and honorary concepts, which just do not belong in Danish society. We cannot accept it, and we should not accept it, and that is why it is a very central and highly topical issue for me in Denmark. We must be able to talk about this, and we must also be able to act on it. We must not stand by and avoid the debates in such a somewhat misunderstood consideration or anxieties. I understand that these are difficult debates, no doubt, but if we do not dare take them, I also believe that we are abandoning these girls and these women. For in all its simplicity, it is a question of guaranteeing the individual's right to express himself, to be free to control his own body and to be able to control his own life. It is simply about the right to freely unfold and participate on an equal footing with others in our society. Denmark is among the countries in the world with the highest employment rate for women, and we as a society benefit from this. It benefits our growth, it benefits our well-being, but so there is still a great difference between men and women's choice of field of work, and there is not enough movement between the female-dominated public sector and the male-dominated private sector. Then it is also true that it is still very much the men who sit in top positions, both in public and in private companies, even in the government. The discussion on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and on the coordination committee was a curious intermezzo. I can tell the rapporteurs that I have spent at least two or three hours in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs today, so it is not the case that the women ministers do not participate in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or the Committee on Coordination. I'm not a permanent member, but I may have to write an application. Nevertheless, we note that we must get the talents in play everywhere. It is both about the individual having the opportunity to exploit his talent and also the right to be able to play his resources. It is also about the fact that, generally speaking, as a society, we cannot afford to miss out on skilled labour and cannot afford not to spend all the talent we spend so much money on ensuring that we have a good education. One of the things we need to focus on in relation to the gender-based labour market is the distribution of maternity leave and leave. And yes, in Denmark we have an imbalance in the distribution of parental leave, and this is about both men and women. For it is therefore important that fathers have the opportunity to take part in the lives of their children, and the fathers demand it. A fairer distribution of parental leave is not only for the benefit of fathers, children and families; I therefore also believe that it will contribute to more attractive jobs and, in general, to promoting equality in Denmark. But, of course, each family has to decide for itself how to give priority to the bar and distribute it is not a legislative task. I know that we disagree. Many parties would like to use the legislative tool, but I am not in favour of it. For too long, the debate has been about for and against earmarking, and it does little to say that we may fall into each of our trenches and not have the dialogue and debates in the families, but also in the workplace, among our friends and also politically. It may be that for some rapporteurs here, when you read the statement on equality, it is frustrating that it is not the legislative tool that I insist on using, but I think that conversations and information are pushing something forward. I think there are other ways to go, because it is very much about culture and traditions. That is also why I have announced that I will be launching with the Minister for Business this year this great campaign in collaboration with both companies and the professional organisations which are intended to promote the use of leave by fathers, among others. by providing good examples, by providing information on opportunities and rights and, of course, also by trying to focus on the effects. Because we see that there are gains to be made, even for mothers, when men make greater use than they do today of the already good opportunities they have in order to be able to take leave with their children if they are allowed to do so by their wives, because the question of how to share the bars is also a discussion one must take at home. So it is for me to see a lot about enlightenment; it is about reaching out to the industries where we today see that men take very little leave. There is no doubt that the imbalance we are currently seeing in the labour market is also the result of gender-separated educational choices. Today there are many ingrained conscious and unconscious norms about gender that characterize both young people themselves, but also teachers, educators and indeed parents throughout their approach to children and young people. These are ideas and expectations of girls and boys, as one place or another, I think, will stand in the way of the individual child's free choice and opportunities for development. In the labour market of the future, yes, in today's labour market, there is therefore a need for flexibility and skilled employees, among other things. IT specialists too, which is one of the things we are talking about, so somewhere there has to be a focus on getting more people to help break the patterns and precisely opening up opportunities for everyone in the education system and in the labour market to be aware of perhaps gender stereotypes that can give rise to certain choices. We must strengthen young people in their free choice of education so that they are not limited by stereotypes of what boys and girls should, can or should. I would like to say a few words about digital sexual abuse, revenge pornography, which has also been debated. Of course, the right and the ability to decide on their own are a feature of many facets of today's youth life, and I agree with what many rapporteurs have said and which is also reflected in the report, namely that we need to look more closely at the constant development of youth culture in general. It is my experience that in the last few years we have witnessed a slip of standards, for example. sharing intimate images of others has become an accepted part of the culture. There we see that young women, especially young women, are at risk of being offended by others sharing their nude images on social media, without being allowed to do so. Children and young people's social intercourse on the Internet is important for their association and their relationship between each other; it is important for their well-being, their self-image, their thinking about their own body. And there is such a tendency towards a culture of perfection that I believe involves a risk in relation to the well-being of young people and belief in their own abilities. A bad self - image can really have major consequences. If, for example, you're gonna have to... is dissatisfied with your own appearance, it is almost something that contributes to poor well-being, bad grades, lower expectations of your career and your own abilities. That is why one of the initiatives is a study of young people's perceptions of gender, body and sexuality and a study of how digitalisation affects their perception, because I believe that we need more knowledge about it and, of course, more debate. Equality is a struggle for rights and freedom. It is global, and it is in Denmark. We must safeguard equality and we must continue to work to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities to fulfil their potentials and exploit their freedom to choose the life they want to live. And with this 2017 perspective and action plan, we are then laying the trails for the gender equality work of the coming year, but it is not the government alone, and I believe that everyone agrees with that, which can or must lift the gender equality agenda. We have a joint responsibility to push on equality and to stick to the debate and dialogue. It is my ambition to create room for those debates because they are crucial. It is only by continuing to focus strongly on the challenges that remain for equality that we can change the standards underlying them. I see I have plenty of time left. That is a good thing, because then I can go in and comment on some of the many speeches that have been made by the rapporteurs. Let me start with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, and thank you for recognising my comment in Politiken, where I write: Okay, if that's what it means to be a feminist, I guess I am. I even got a T-shirt that says Feminism. And what does that really mean? It is absolutely true that it is when you fight for equal opportunities. That is why my title in English is not Minister of Gender Equality, but Minister of Equal Opportunity. I think this is crucially important for us to remember. Then it is perfectly understandable that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff again highlights the whole initiative on violence in close relationships, and I am fully aware of the desire about the psychological system. It's kind of reflected in the deal we've made broadly about these network initiatives with associated psychologists. I understand that's not the one that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff himself wanted it, but that was the outcome of the negotiations, and I expect a great deal of that. Well, then it's not just Mr. Knox. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, but several of the rapporteurs who are a little trying to make this joke that it's copy-paste, and has anything happened at all? I'm almost quite upset, so not seriously, but I have spent a lot of time with good people in the ministry on this statement and on the fact that we are actually looking forward and have been very focused on what has actually happened. When Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, for example, says that you are impatient with this information for both parents, i.e. digital mail to both parents, something has actually happened, because the Digitalization Authority has developed this technical solution so that both parents can receive digital mail about their children, and the municipalities are informed of how to do it. So little has happened in that direction. It is true that we still have to discuss what we do with child benefit. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, was very clear about the problem that I fully share, namely that the biggest equality problem we have in Denmark is the lack of equality for women in ethnic minority communities. I think there are many concrete measures here, and one of them I really expect is the whole analysis of men's perceptions in the ethnic minority environments. That, I believe, is the key to achieving equality also for women in ethnic minority communities. In fact, I would say that the men and the boys are also very much active players and must be active players to make this work. Then Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, was ready on equal pay and maternity leave. Equal pay, yes, it is always something to be careful about, someone has said to me when an equal opportunities minister is talking about equal pay, but we have equal pay in the legislation, and why is there this gap? On International Women's Day on 8 March, I had a very interesting discussion meeting at 3F, where, as such, several of the players entered the historical perspective of women's access to the labour market, and what kind of jobs and types of training were they, and what are historical conditions? If you then lift things up as a percentage, yes, of course it is for that reason that everything else can be seen to be a kind of bias. Is that an inequality? What is meant by equal pay for equal work? I think that we often get off on the wrong foot, because I see that you should not, just because you have three years of education, per year. definition say: You have 3 years of education and you have 3 years of education, ergo you must get the same in salary. Well, it must be equal pay for equal work, and what's equal work then? That's what we usually discuss. Barsel, yes, there I have explained to you the whole Action Father's Orlov, which to me is the most important tool in pushing this. I would like to take the liberty of skipping it a little, and I will come back to the other rapporteurs. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of the alternative is not here at the moment, but nevertheless I think that the rapporteur of the alternative had a very, very important message that we should generally be careful to argue with emotion, this saying that I myself once experienced, and I am trying, and I am. It is true that it is very often characteristic when we discuss gender equality issues. This is very often the case when we negotiate in the social field and so on, but it often becomes very emotional and perhaps less rational and factual. And I think that is an approach that we should learn from. In fact, I think it was an important message that we should be careful just to argue with emotion. Then the SF's rapporteur says in one of the questions: remember that there is no d in KVINFO. I think that is a good point, because what exactly does KVINFO stand for? KVINFO stands for gender, i.e. K for gender, V for knowledge, IN for information, and FO for research. It is then a clever name that associates much to women or women, but KVINFO: Gender, knowledge, information and research. I think that's a good thing to make that clear. Then the SF's rapporteur also referred a little to this frustration that there are no concrete actions like this in a statement like this, a concrete action plan, and that the statement was a little too much copy-paste as to how much we really measure the different things. I do not entirely agree with that. I think there are concrete actions. The Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, also mentioned violence in close relations, for example. Where are the objectives? In relation to the call I received from Mrs Marianne Jelved about the objective of violence in close relations, I would like to point out my old resort, that of the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs today, with the ten objectives of social mobility, where Objective 1 is concerned. 5 is precisely about violence in close relationships. So there are objectives and ambitions, as well as being able to follow developments. It is clear that when you set yourself as a target, that something must go in a positive and improved direction, then you must also be able to measure it. But what about equality? Is equality only equality if it's fifty-fifty, man-woman? For some it may be: We have only achieved equality in the Folketing when there is a composition of 50 per cent. women and 50%. men who reflect the population. It is not in my optics, I would like to make that quite clear. Equal opportunities are, for me, equal opportunities. I will not fall into anecdotes about being elected to parliament or being appointed as a minister, but for me it is important that we safeguard the communities of opportunity, that we are very, very consistent in knowing what responsibilities we each bear as elected representatives, as ministers, as local politicians etc., as active citizens in general, a common responsibility to push on equality and to stick to the debate and in dialogue, and to have a sharp focus on the challenges that still remain for equality, because that is the way to change standards, that is the way to change cultures and entrenched perceptions. So in those words: thank you for a very good debate. I look forward to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329200919	We've just got a stripe of those. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329200927	The minister mentions it about communication. I also mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech, i.e. the digital communication to both parents. I understand from the Minister that something crucial has happened. What I was reacting to was that it says that an initiative will be taken to produce comprehensive guidance for the relevant authorities so that they can comply with the applicable rules on information for both parents. Am I supposed to understand that this guidance has been made? And if it is, can't we see it? I think it might be quite exciting to see it. If it hasn't been made, i.e. if something has happened and it hasn't been done, then it's the one I'm waiting for, and that maybe many others are waiting for. When can we expect it to be made so that we don't get started, and that's what I allowed myself to be a little witty about next year and talk about how soon something will happen. It's not something that needs to take all the time to do. I'd be able to come over to the ministry and do it in an afternoon with you guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201055	I can understand impatience in relation to when that counsel comes out. No, it's not finished yet, that is, the counsel itself. However, a very, very important element of that guidance was exactly the technical solution, in terms of how, in municipal terms, when sending digital mail to families, including parents at two addresses, you have the digital solution that needs to be done. It is for me to see a crucial element in the guidance, in terms of how to act when both parents need to have information. Then there's the part about sitting in the writing process. At any rate, I can guarantee so much that, of course, the Committee on Gender Equality will receive that guidance, and I will also come back with a precise timetable for it. But I share the ambition that we should have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201145	Yeah, get it fixed soon, and I'm gonna say something nice about you guys. Then there was the other thing in relation to the payment rules for child and youth benefits. This is something that various tax ministers and different governments have dealt with, and what has been the signal every time, both from the then Left Government and now from the wider government, has been that one shares the intention to let the parents decide for themselves, rather than that we in this Parliament should decide that it should be the one parent who gets this money paid out. When can we expect something to happen, and where is the matter? In other words, will the parents be allowed to decide for themselves in the future, or do we just keep on being a little old-fashioned about the fact that the issue of child pay is something that is about the mothers, because that has always been the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201244	Here, too, I do not disagree with the impatience of the solution, but it is just much more complicated than a digital guide on how to send digital mail to both parents. It is because it has been linked up to a child's population register address, i.e. where the child has a population register address and how it is connected to the cpr number. And this splitting it up isn't super simple. I can say that our good tax minister really wants to find a solution to this, but I think I can say that right now and here I have not been the one who has beaten him the most with tasks. I see that our tax minister has plenty to do with other, perhaps more important, socio-economic issues. I think we can also agree that there are therefore some tasks that are higher on the agenda of the Minister of Taxation. That doesn't mean he neglects it and says he doesn't care about the solution. The solution just isn't right. I know there are people in the Treasury trying to figure out the technique of this. But we are not there yet, and let me just say: I should like to ask about the status at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201354	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201357	Thank you to the Minister for recognising the major problem we are dealing with in integrating Muslim women, in particular, into Danish society and creating equal opportunities for them as well. Some of what I think is missing in the report is something about the employment effort. We have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and there is no doubt that this will of course have an impact. But there will, of course, continue to be a group of immigrant women, whether or not we have introduced this, I think, hiding behind various diagnoses. They take care of their activation, but funny enough, they rarely get to work anyway. There I would just like us to try to talk much more about it and that the government also came up with some initiatives. I'd love to be of assistance. And there I just want to know whether the Minister for Gender Equality would also contribute to such a dialogue on how to ensure that more immigrant women enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201508	Well, it's a clear case for the government under one, that is. each of us in the government and also in the previous government. It was our entire election project that was about how it should pay off to work. And we really think it is crucial that much more people in Danish society are an active part of the labour market. This is the prerequisite for our having a well-functioning welfare system. And a well-functioning welfare system is a lot of things, but just when it comes to people who are sick, who may be struggling with mental illness or who are struggling with other health problems, I think it is important that help is targeted at those people who have those problems. That is why we should perhaps be quite careful just to generalise and say that now everyone has to go into the labour market. We should not do so if we are too sick to be on the labour market. Then perhaps you really should have looked at your case again and assessed whether you should be on sickness benefit instead. So all of this turning the pile, which is in the hands of the Minister for Employment, has been a very, very important political priority here in the context of the wage-pool negotiations. It is a work which has just begun and which I expect a great deal from, in fact, the initiatives to give what I would almost call a loving boost towards being able to be an active part of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201636	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201637	I fully share the view expressed here by the Minister for Equal Opportunities. I think it has also been an eye-opener for a lot of people to see, for example. such a thing as the TV 2 programmes... the mosques behind the veil... where it was quite clear that there are women who live under social control and are kept in the home. However, although we have taken these initiatives to reverse the pile in relation to the rate pool, etc. It is not necessarily the turnaround of the pile that brings all the immigrant women living under social control into the labour market. And if they are in the employment system and are connected to the job center, we may have some opportunities to do even more to ensure that they are freed from those kitchens in which they are otherwise maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201735	After all, this is a major debate on the major problem of equality that we have in Denmark, namely when women and girls, primarily in the ethnic minority environments, live under social control. And that is what I really have been trying to address, both in the speech, but also in the whole action plan for what we are doing here, what we are doing here, how we are finding ways of actually bringing about change and precisely creating opportunities for us as citizens of this country to make use of the freedoms that generations before us have also fought for. So just a small comment: I'd be careful with the meat pots... understand me right... in this respect... that I still believe in free choice. I mean, you can agree with a family on this and now I'm not talking about what ethnic background you have to choose to be the one who primarily takes care of unpaid work at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201836	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329201839	Yes, imagine that we have not talked at all about the distribution of unpaid work today. We've been here almost three hours, haven't we? But it just shows how big an area this is. I would like to address what the Minister said about equal pay, because I actually agree with a very important point and note how many times I commend the Minister today, namely that equality is not that we are fifty-fifty in all areas. Equality is not that we should have equal numbers of men and women in all groups and positions, not at all. Equal opportunities are equal opportunities. And the problem, you might say, today is that those opportunities are still pretty in many areas. There are some things that particularly affect men. This is particularly in the field of health, etc. But there are also a great many things that affect women in particular, and that is, for example. the imbalance in the distribution of wages in our society. I agree with what the Minister says that equal pay for equal work is what we must strive for. However, does the Minister not also agree that there is an imbalance in value in our society of the work most often done by women, that is to say. Health, SOSU work It is often within the care work and what is called man-jobs, so that it is simply valued at odds with pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202004	I think that is an interesting point and probably the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right. Allow me to use the formation of government as an example of perhaps a bit of the same, and I think that in general terms and broadly in the debate we should be very careful in assigning different tasks to such a gender-based nature. I remember when the three-clover government stepped in. There was an outcry about the fact that there were no women ministers in the heavy posts, and so it is just that I say: excuse me, is not being Minister for Health or Minister for Gender Equality or Minister for Children and Social Affairs heavy posts? Yeah, I'm just asking. And isn't being a teacher or a nurse or a mechanic valuable jobs? Isn't that important jobs? I think so, and I have great respect for people who get up every day and go to work and make all the important efforts in the world for this society to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202107	I am very much in agreement with that, and it shows that there are some things that we value differently in our society and that it often coincides with the fact that these are perhaps some of the tasks that women take care of. But being an educator or a nurse, which is what we can call women's jobs, which are dominated by women, I think we do not appreciate enough, so central it is in our society, at least not if you let it reflect in pay, I think. You can do that, for example. It is also important to note that there is a lower wage, even though the length of training may be the same as for some other men's jobs in particular. What are we doing about the pay gap that is then inexplicable and that is what the Minister himself writes in his statement? Does the government have any initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202203	I think there are several handles to turn on in this discussion, and one of the most important is precisely the distribution of maternity leave. Sometimes you might want to say, "Oh, my gosh, how victorious you have done..., that is not to say, in some way, in relation to the things you may have been in the social partners' eyes being very focused on achieving rights. This applies to maternity leave and sick days, etc. At any rate, I am delighted to note that many of the collective agreements that have now been concluded are very much about the family, in other words parental leave and precisely the possibility for men and women to share maternity leave. And I think that can be a major factor in pushing the pay distribution we are seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202302	The next question is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202308	Thank you. I am a little disappointed by the Minister's comment on my proposal to focus more on eliminating violence in close relationships. I am just thinking that we are used to having action plans in many areas in Denmark. Cancer Action Plans are a very good example of this, and there is experience that they create a great deal of attention about cancer and hence also about the symptoms that you can discover and do something about earlier than we might otherwise have done. That is why I also imagined that if an action plan was drawn up against violence in close relations, it might also be possible to create a greater awareness, which meant that we talked more about it, including between the neighbours, who hear what is happening on the other side of the wall and so on. It is to try to create a movement, a community that this is just not acceptable and that we can do something about it. Because if we know that there is something that works, then we also have a duty to use what works in order to have a better society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202419	I do not like to disappoint Mrs Marianne Jelved, because I generally think that there are good proposals that are more than just well-intentioned and that are with a sincere desire to push for development. In relation to violence in close relations, I believe that we have actually done something quite sensible by making a political agreement on a national unity against violence in close relations. The entire dissemination of knowledge and also the handling of places in women's crisis centres where there is a vacancy in the men's places is, for me, a fairly important and significant element in this direction. It's in supply right now, and that's why it's probably gonna be soon that we're gonna see who's gonna bid to be this national entity, which, to me, is gonna be an important player in terms of both the debate-making, but, in fact, also the change-making. We have gone further, but no, we are not in the end, in the sense that it is a taboo to be subjected to violence in its close relationship, in relation to putting foot down and insisting precisely on seeing what it is for efforts and actions that can be done to be helped out of the violence. I very much agree that initiatives such as Dialogue Against Violence, which actually focus on the perpetrators of violence, are quite effective. So these are some of the things we have learned, among others. by using the wager pool funds to test different, hopefully effective bets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202600	In fact, I agree with everything that the Minister has just described, and that is also evident from the statement. What I just wanted was a more comprehensive picture of it in order to communicate in a different way and create a greater awareness around us in society as such, and I had almost said on the streets and straits and in families. Because I think there are a lot of people who close their eyes to something that they well suspect or know about, and that is almost even worse. So it's just as much to hear if we can build it up in some other way, which means that it might get bigger punches, because more people somehow spot it, and it becomes legal to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202647	It is, of course, generally an enormously important task to be focused on this kind of awareness-raising effort in order to actually push for development. There are some actors who do a lot about violence. The latest campaign, which has just taken place, has been about violence, i.e. lovers' violence, and the entire organisation Bryd Silentness, together with the Minister for Gender Equality and the Crime Prevention Council, has had a competition among young people in educational establishments. And I should like to say that there is a commitment among those who say that they want to be involved in this type of campaign. One of the participants in the campaign we had to make a very special award for. There was a message about stopping violence, stopping the lovers' violence, which we are now going to do as a printing case, as posters to educational establishments, both the oldest classes of primary and secondary schools. So I think that movement is very much in progress and that it is important that it is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202753	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202756	Thank you. I was very pleased when the Minister said that the fight for equality and the equal opportunities being given to all of us are also a fight that is taking place at home. The minister also mentioned that in some areas there was a little trench debate. However, I would like to take up some of the points on which we agree, namely in relation to equality in management and where the government now supports the Danish model for women in management. As the Minister also knows, the Institute for Human Rights has made an evaluation of this law, which came into being under Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, and that law is very fine and very right, is the conclusion. The only problem is that it is not being adequately followed. Every other major Danish company does not comply with the legislation in this area. Is it something in which the Minister thinks that we should simply continue to work on this part?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329202912	It should not be a secret that the Danish model invented under the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government was not something we as such cheered over, but frankly it was the best of two, because the alternative was quotas on boards and in managements, and the government in no way supports that. That is why we are leaving it behind and evaluating how things are going. I do not agree with the idea that companies do not comply with the law in terms of making policies on how to actually work with the under-represented sex, but I should like to come back to that in relation to the claim that you are not complying with the law, because I believe that the legislation is actually being made in order to comply with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203002	Yes, it may well be that it is better for us in committee to have a discussion on the evaluation report produced by the Institute for Human Rights and their conclusions. Because we fully agree with the aim of the legislation, that is, that it must be kept and complied with, and if we do so, we will also be able to bring about change in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203033	At least I am relatively satisfied with the fact that somewhere with those statements you might move away from that quota image. Several highlighted the Norwegian model with a requirement for a 40-percent distribution compared to the under-represented sex, etc. And I would strongly warn against going that way. I know that there have also been several voices in the European Union that dream about it. And to me, it is important that we then find out what we have for a legal complex and how we do it in a way, so that frankly it doesn't overload companies in terms of target numbers, etc. Because we actually find that companies are quite focused on ensuring the best composition. Well, which leader isn't concerned with putting in the best team? Which board isn't concerned with setting up the best team? At least I don't know anybody.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203135	We stay in the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203137	Thank you. In his speech, the Minister for Gender Equality said that equality is something we must promote and not take for granted. At the same time, however, the Minister also added that equality can bring out some feelings, and that is why we need to be very fact-based. I fully agree with the Minister. I would like to ask: when you look at the level of ambition of the Minister in terms of promoting equality and then at the signal sent by the government with these very important committees, coordination committees, economic committees, security committees, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203232	I can simply not smile over this debate. It is incredible how important it has been whether there is now a female minister on the coordination committee or a female minister on the economic committee. I have just told you that I have spent two and a half hours today in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, so that is not because there are no women ministers in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. One gets such a picture that it is a closed club where there are the male ministers, and otherwise it is closed. That is not how the government works, I just have to say. Then one can say: Wow, now they are rustling down the curve in terms of equality, because there are slightly fewer women ministers in the current government than there were in the Left Government. Is that a problem? Well, I hope and believe that the Prime Minister puts the best team and distributes the tasks in terms of competences and fields of interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203328	I don't want the minister to think this is just a joke. It is actually a fact-based thing, and I am dealing with the facts. When you look at the facts, there are five important, heavy committees, and there is not a single woman in them. In this debate there is even one of the government parties who has not been in the Chamber at all. I am surprised. If you have this ambition on the part of the Minister, that is, that equality is not something we should take for granted, that is something we should work for every day, then I think there is something called walk the talk, that is to say, that you are also sending a signal and showing the desire you have. So I would really like to hear whether the Minister will follow the call of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to report on the field or how? What do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203416	Let me give you some facts and I think it is quite sensible to base the discussion on facts. Paragraph 1: In fact, no application is made to the Coordination Committee or to the Economic Affairs Committee. And point 2: Women Ministers take part in Economic Committee meetings and coordination committee meetings. It is therefore in an Economics Committee as well as in a Coordination Committee that the two main government committees are at all • that every trade minister carries in his case and is considering it in committee with the speaker So, it is not the case that you put it outside the door and run away and then hope that a man comes in a suit and looks at it. So these are the facts. That is why I welcome the fact that I have spent many hours in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs today. I will also be using it again tomorrow, and I can guarantee that this will also happen next week, including in the coordination committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203512	Thank you. Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203515	Thank you. I am actually very pleased that the Minister will also clarify what KVINFO stands for, because it is very illustrative when you get it divided up in this way. That is why I would also like to hear from the Minister: could the Minister describe what KVINFO's tasks are? Because one might get the impression, when one hears the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, that the only thing they do is to propagandise quotas on board boards. But could the Minister describe what it is to work in Kvinfo?
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203559	Thank you. I can start by saying that KVINFO falls within the remit of the Minister for Culture. KVINFO is an independent institution. Then I have explained what the letters stand for, i.e. for both information and knowledge and research, and then I do not really think to elaborate on it further than what I have said here, because the entire grant in relation to the research library is, as I said, within the cultural minister's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203637	Yes, but that applies to many of the things we have talked about today. When you are Minister for Gender Equality, it is precisely because you go across all ministries and therefore have to relate to what is going on in other ministries. Well, well, well. Then I would just like to ask the question, which I also raised in my rapporteur's speech, whether the Minister agrees with the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Laura Lindahl, that KVINFO stands for state feministism and that they are conducting political propaganda.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203710	In any case, I would like to say so much that I probably would not have put it that way myself. And as Minister for Gender Equality, I find that KVINFO is a self-serving institution. It is not a political party, even though it has sometimes been understood. In fact, I believe that KVINFO has become a political party in this Chamber because everyone from the red bloc here in the debate on equality wears KVINFO badges, where it says: keep KVINFO. So maybe it's gone off and become a political party. I don't really know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203746	We are therefore grateful to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and that is why the debate has ended here after quite many hours and a very thorough discussion of the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170329203802	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 30 March 2017, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
