ParlaMint-DK_20171024130049	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Mattia Tesfaye (S) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 19 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution not to issue tax cards to illegal immigrants). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Question No. F 7 (What can the government say about the government's plans to address the negative consequences of the free movement of labour within the EU, and what considerations does the government have regarding the forthcoming accession of the countries of the Western Balkans to the EU in relation to the issue of free movement?). Titles on the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130123	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democratic Party... if he's here. He's not. Then we move on to Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130159	Thank you for that, President. Today we are dealing with L 56, which I could imagine in popular terms will be called L-Iceberg, because it is no secret that this change of law was born out of an unhappy case about the dog A-Iceberg. It came to Denmark with its Italian owner. The owner did not know about the Danish ban list and came here with all papers in order where the dog's race was also enlightened. He was not confronted with the ban at the airport and has therefore ended up in a situation which has now been completely settled, because the rules today do not allow for exemption from killing. This is the situation we are now trying to solve with L 56. L 56 remedy a situation that is not reasonable, but in the perfect world, this situation had never arisen. If in Denmark we had 100 per cent. control of all passports including. Animal passports, A-Iceberg had never been allowed into Denmark. Of course, DF supports L 56, but at the same time I would like to stress that we should work to avoid a fire and not to put it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130317	Thank you. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130321	Thank you very much. I very much agree with the rapporteur that it is a deeply unhappy matter that has triggered this change of law. Unfortunately, however, the dog law is the basis for many, many unhappy cases in Denmark with Danish dog owners and Danish dogs. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130342	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130344	I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. It is an unfortunate situation to be faced with a dog to be killed, but the rules are such in Denmark that there are 13 breeds that are banned in Denmark, and if it is the case that you make yourself criminal by acquiring a dog of these breeds, then there is really no alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130410	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130413	But now we're the ones who make the rules. We're the ones who decided these dog breeds are illegal. It's the Folketing, not the Enhedslisten. Isn't this a good opportunity to change the dog law and remove these banned breeds of dogs that were put on the list in 2010 so that the unfortunate situation doesn't arise where dogs that have never done anything should be killed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130441	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130443	I would say that in the past in Denmark we have experienced a great many ugly cases of serious bites. It was against this background that we had the ban list drawn up. We can see that it has helped. So in the Danish People's Party we see no reason to change the ban list. There are so few dogs left in Denmark of those breeds, so we see no reason to change it. We don't want to go back to the conditions that were then.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130511	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130522	Thank you. The bill, which we are discussing, deals with a minor adjustment of the dog law, and the aim of the adjustment is to make the rules a little more flexible. The amendment of the law means that dogs of prohibited breeds do not necessarily have to be killed if they are introduced into Denmark. It can, for example, be done. be in cases where a foreign tourist is not aware that a particular breed of dogs is prohibited in Denmark. As the applicable rules are designed, the dog must be killed even if the owner was not aware of the Danish rules. It's a very violent procedure to kill a dog, and that's why it makes sense, of course, for us to look at and adjust these rules. The bill is not a watering down of the existing legislation banning a number of breeds of dogs. It is only in special cases that the police may choose not to kill a dog of illegal race, and it is provided that the owner is unaware that the dog is illegal in Denmark, and it is also a condition that the dog is not introduced into Denmark for professional purposes. At the same time, the bill empowers the police to place a dog of illegal race in retirement until it is then carried out by Denmark again. In addition, the police may also require the owner to keep the dog on a leash or to carry a muzzle, and the costs incurred in the event of the dog being retired may be claimed by the police to the owner. The amendment of the law makes the legislation less square, so foreigners due to lack of knowledge of the Danish dog law do not get caught. Against this background, the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130712	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130716	Does the rapporteur agree with me that the evaluation of the dog law showed that the law has had no effect whatsoever on the number of bite injuries in Denmark and that we therefore have a law which, in relation to solving a problem of stool and bite injuries, has had no effect at all, but in return has resulted in hundreds of unhappy cases of killing Danish dogs that have never done anything to anyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130742	Sir. Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130743	There was an evaluation of approx. Two years back, as I remember. It was made on the basis of the changes that were made earlier, and the evaluation has then landed the rules that we have now. Then this little change of law is being put in place, and no other changes have been put in place in this area. We shall see if there is no broad support for that, I hope there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130806	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130809	But now we are discussing the dog law today, and that is why I ask what effect this law has had in Denmark. Because now we're making a really good exception for foreign dogs, but that doesn't change the fact that Danes still have to live with these rules. I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the evaluation of the dog law showed that it had had no effect on bite damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130831	Here you go, sir. Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130833	When we look back at the bad shambles that were, with children and so on, there was a good reason why years ago you picked up the dog law and then tightened up these things. A list of bans came out of that. As far as I remember, there was also an observation list, where a number of different breeds of dogs were kept under extra review. Then we had the evaluation here for approx. Two years ago, and there we had the watch list removed. Now we are running with the banning list, which is on these 13 races, and we in the Left are completely behind this legislation, just as we are behind this bill which is under discussion now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130912	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024130920	Thank you. I would like to start by commending the Minister for the Environment for presenting this bill, because the bill will ensure that foreign citizens who, without knowing it, have brought a dog of an illegal dog breed into Denmark can be allowed to take the dog back out again. The bill therefore ensures that foreign dogs of a race prohibited in Denmark should not be killed, one can be allowed to go home. The change of law comes in response to a very specific case in which an Italian citizen had brought his dog, A-Iceberg, into Denmark. After all, the dog traveled on a valid dog passport, the breed was clearly indicated in the passport, and no one informed the owner that the dog he brought with him and brought into Denmark via Copenhagen Airport is actually illegal in Denmark. The dog was later confiscated by the police, and the case focused on the horrible Danish dog law. The result of the adoption of the law we are discussing today means that Guiseppe can finally get his dog home to Italy. We very much welcome this in the Enhedslisten. However, I think it is so unfortunate that we do not use the chance to fundamentally amend the Danish dog law and once and for all remove the race ban that was introduced in 2010 because the result of the dog law is that healthy and good dogs are killed, even if they have never shown aggressive behaviour. The Dog Law costs innocent dogs their lives without removing the reason for the existence of aggressive dogs. In addition, there are elements in the dog law that are simply not worthy of a legal society, for example. the reverse burden of proof, which means that a dog owner may be required to prove that the dog does not This means that dogs are sitting in Denmark on shelters separated from their owners, only because they look wrong. Being able to be with your dog is too many people associated with great quality of life. Sitting in a shelter for many, many months separate from its owner is not decent animal welfare. When the race ban was imposed, it was well known that it would have no effect on the number of aggressive dogs or on the suffocation, because experts said it clearly, namely that an increased risk of suffocation cannot be linked to certain breeds of dogs. This was confirmed in the evaluation of the Dog Law in 2013 when the University of Copenhagen, which was responsible for the evaluation, found that the race ban had not had an effect in relation to the number and extent of shame. I think that the race ban in the dog law is a magnificent example of foolish legislation that hits the wrong ones and does not solve any problems at all. So in addition to giving foreigners the opportunity to take their dogs out of Denmark, we should do a more fundamental review of the dog law, removing the race ban and replacing it with a model that goes for the irresponsible dog owners, because, according to experts, the danger is not linked to race, but rather to the dog's upbringing, upbringing and dog owner's behavior. There is no doubt that dangerous dogs must be killed, but they must be killed because the specific dog is dangerous, not because we just think it looks wrong. With these words, I would say that Enhedslisten supports the bill and we very soon hope to be able to deal with a bill that guarantees Danes the same rights that we are giving foreigners today, namely an opportunity to be with their dog. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131334	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131341	Thank you. I think I will try to stay a little more rigorous on what the specific legislative proposal we are dealing with is about at least a little more rigorous than the previous rapporteur. The reason why we are standing here discussing the possibility for the police to carry out rather than to kill dogs of certain races that have come into the country is, as has been said before, today, the case of the A-Iceberg dog, which became the focus of a minor diplomatic crisis here in the early summer. The dog had entered Denmark, albeit with its Italian owner, but without being aware of the illegal nature of the relationship. When the police then became aware that the dog belonged to one of the 13 breeds of dogs or crosses, which by law in Denmark were certainly not allowed to be native to Denmark, it was decided that the dog should be killed. This happened despite the fact that dog and owner were not aware of this ban and that they had also made it through customs control at Kastrup Airport without any problems. This is the direct and very tangible consequence of this ban that was adopted here in the 2010 Parliamentary Chamber, by the way, without the votes of the Liberal Alliance. Generally speaking, the Liberal Alliance supports proposals put forward in this Chamber, which will make rigid rules more flexible. The example of A-Iceberg shows that the prohibition of certain breeds of dogs is far too inflexible. That is why, of course, I and the Liberal Alliance also welcome the fact that we are now giving the police the opportunity to assess individual situations when they arise, rather than following rigid rules, although that is clearly not fair. That is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131605	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131610	Thank you. Now, of course, I know that the Liberal Alliance has been against this racial ban, as long as Enhedslisten has been, so I just wanted to know if removing the race list that was introduced in 2010 is something that the Liberal Alliance is using as a government party. When I hear the rapporteur say that the Liberal Alliance would like to vote in favour of proposals that make rigid rules less inflexible, I think it was the choice of words... I would like to hear if the Liberal Alliance would support an amendment from the Enhedslisten to this law which removes the race ban that was introduced in 2010.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131651	Yes, from rigid rules to more flexible rules. The Liberal Alliance, and especially now that we are in intergovernmental cooperation, is always working away from bans, and we are doing so within the government, also on the specific issue, and we therefore immediately welcomed the fact that this matter came up in government circles, so that we could change some rigid rules and make them more flexible. So working for less prohibition policy, at least when we talk about intergovernmental cooperation, is certainly something that the Liberal Alliance does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131732	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131735	So the Liberal Alliance will take a positive view of an amendment by the Enhedslisten, which removes the race ban from 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131741	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131743	The Liberal Alliance is always in favour of discussing and debating all proposals, including those from the Enhedslisten, and it is quite correct, as I said in my speech, that this ban has not been adopted by the votes of the Liberal Alliance. And in the cooperation we have in the government, the Liberal Alliance is very keen to clean up rigid rules, such as the United States. the dog legislation referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131809	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131817	Thank you. I am not going to explain the whole matter again, it has already been done. I can only mention that the alternative expects to vote in favour of this proposal, so that dogs that have ended up in Denmark, for various reasons, can be allowed to return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131839	Thank you. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024131848	Since the adoption of the dog law, Radical Left has been sceptical about this paragraph, where the police may be allowed or have the opportunity to kill a dog if the police consider that the dog is of a particular race. There is a great deal of debate out there in society about exactly that paragraph because there are many who experience that they are at least afraid that a dog can be killed, even if it has done nothing wrong, and even if it is a peaceful dog that the owner is happy about. This bill then makes an exception to that paragraph in relation to foreign dogs. There has been this case, which has filled a lot, with the dog A-Iceberg, which belongs to an Italian who traveled to Denmark and had his dog with and thus did not know the Danish rules and therefore did not know that the dog was illegal in Denmark and could actually be killed. Now the law is being changed so that the dog should not be killed, and so that in some cases foreigners do not get their dog killed if they visit Denmark. We in the Radical Left think this is quite logical, but we would also like to see a slightly deeper discussion of whether it might be possible to extend that flexibility to dogs in general, because in our view there may also be situations where dogs that are not dangerous or have done nothing wrong may end up being killed, and we think that will be a pity for those who own the dog and, of course, for the dog itself. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132024	Thank you to the Radical Left. The next is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132032	Well, there aren't many dogs who get the honor of bringing about legal changes in this thing, but that's kind of what's happened today. Basically, we in the SF are sceptical about the racial ban that is in the dog law. It has not been shown that it has worked as intended and no one can say whether more or less dog bites have come into effect after it came into force. Instead, it has created sad stories like this case of the Italian A-Iceberg, which is why we have a legislative proposal on the table today at all. Perhaps we should instead face the fact that it is wrong to go after the dogs when it is really about the ability of the owners to have dogs in a way that is accountable to other dogs and people who come near the dogs. So we support the bill to exempt the killing of dogs carried by private individuals from abroad without knowing that the breed of dogs was on a ban list, but we really believe that this is only a patchy solution to a law that does not work as intended. We need to be safe with the dogs we meet on the street, and dangerous dogs need to be killed. But if we are to eliminate dangerous dog behavior, we must make demands on the dog owners and give the police the opportunity to intervene before the damage occurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132157	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132204	Thank you. This is an adjustment of the dog law, which is based on the history of the Italian dog. It might as well have been any other country it had come from. This adjustment means that a dog owner who has inadvertently entered Denmark with a breed which is one of the 13 breeds banned in Denmark will have the opportunity to bring his dog back to his country of origin under the understanding that it is for private purposes, which is what we are dealing with with with this bill. The present law does not allow it, which meant that the dog in question should be put to death. At least in Denmark it gave attention to this matter and made some people have to take action on it. And it is probably quite reasonable that the owner in question should be given the opportunity to get the dog back once he has come in with the dog without knowing the rules in Denmark. One might ask oneself how much one can go to Denmark without knowing the rules, but that is how this is interpreted. And in the Conservative People's Party, we agree with that and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132332	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132339	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the speeches they have made here from the platform. The aim of the draft law, as several have also mentioned, is to introduce the possibility that, in exceptional cases, the police may decide that a dog of an illegal race or a cross-breed should not be killed, but instead carried out from Denmark when the dog originates in another country and the dog's possessor has not been aware that the dog is prohibited in Denmark. Today, the Dog Law prohibits the possession and breeding of 13 breeds of dogs, as well as the crossbreeds in which the breeds of dogs are included, and according to the law, dogs kept or introduced into Denmark, contrary to the ban, are to be killed by the police's measure. The ban also applies to dogs of foreign origin and the applicable law does not provide for the possibility to derogate from the prohibition regime of the law, including the requirement to kill. In the light of a specific case concerning the Italian dog A-Iceberg, it appears that the law is inappropriate on the point that in some cases there is no possibility of returning an illegal foreign dog to the country of origin where the dog is not prohibited. It can, for example, be done. be relevant when foreign tourists or other foreigners inadvertently and without knowledge of the Danish rules on prohibited dogs, have brought a prohibited dog to Denmark. The draft law therefore proposes that, in special cases, the police may decide that a dog of foreign origin is exported from Denmark rather than killed. A decision on the export of the dog is conditional upon the dog's possessor being unaware that the dog is illegal in Denmark when the dog was introduced into the country. It is also a condition that the dog is not introduced as part of a professional activity. This provision will be applicable in specific cases, e.g.: in cases where foreigners who are unaware of the Danish prohibition scheme have brought a dog of an illegal breed into the country in connection with a temporary stay and have only stayed in the country for a shorter period. It is also assumed that the dog and its owner have an association with the country to which the dog is carried out, so that it can be probable that the dog is not brought back to Denmark. The draft law also proposes that the police may decide to place the dog in retirement until a decision has been taken on the export of the dog from Denmark and that the dog should remain in retirement until it is carried out by the country. It is also proposed that the police be given the opportunity to claim pension costs reimbursed by the dog's possessor before the dog is handed over to the possessor for export. In the absence of a decision to place a pension, it is proposed that the police should be able to instruct the possessor that, when the dog is out, the dog should be kept on a leash or be fitted with a muzzle or both. Finally, I should like to stress that it is not intended to compromise the existing ban regime in the dog law. The aim of the prohibition scheme is to phase out certain breeds of dogs and their crossbreeds so that the banned dogs are avoided in the street picture in Denmark. Therefore, if a prohibited dog of foreign origin can be returned to its home country without there being a real risk of re-entry into Denmark, it is considered not to compromise the purpose of the prohibition scheme. In those words, I shall look forward to the committee reading of the draft law, and I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132642	Thank you. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132646	Thank you. With this bill, the government guarantees foreign dogs and aliens' rights, and I think that's only fine, but what about the Danes? Do not their rights and their ability to be with their dog lie at all in the minds of the government? I would actually like to ask the Minister to confirm three things: that there are innocent dogs that have been killed as a result of the dog breeds law, which was introduced in 2010, i.e. dogs that have never done anything that alone looks wrong; that it can be virtually impossible to lift the burden of proof imposed by the police on the dog owners; and that the dog law has had no effect in relation to the shame bite.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132734	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132736	Thank you for that and thank you for the questions. So, it is very important to the government that Danes too have the opportunity to have a good relationship with their dogs, and this law does not in any way stand in the way of that. In addition, it is important as a Dane to know about the legislation. It is also for foreigners who come here, but it may be few cases like what we have seen this summer, which make it possible to unwittingly come to it. Now I find it difficult to talk about innocent dogs because it is usually people you talk about as guilty or innocent because you have an awareness that what you do is wrong. Nor do I recognise the fact that it can be difficult to lift the burden of proof, and finally I believe that the revision of the dog law back a few years ago is a little more nuanced than Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132826	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132828	With innocent dogs, I mean dogs that haven't done anything to anyone... the minister can relate to that. Have dogs that have not done anything to anyone been killed as a result of the race ban under the dog law? Effect: The minister must then give his interpretation of the effect that has been if my interpretation is wrong, and then the Minister may elaborate on how to carry out this burden of proof that the dog does not contain a prohibited breed of dogs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132855	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132857	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I would like to send a summary to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, where the rapporteur can see on what grounds dogs have been killed in Denmark, to the extent that we can provide that information so that it is as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132914	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more comments or questions. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132934	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024132956	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to bring together all safety regulation of offshore oil and gas activities in one place. Therefore, it is proposed to move the regulation of safety zones around offshore installations from the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate to the offshore safety law, which is the Ministry of Employment. As this law already lays down safety and health conditions in relation to these activities, I certainly think it makes sense. This also means that in future the Labour Inspectorate will be responsible for administering the regulations, controls and various things, and we Social Democrats are very confident about that. In addition, individual provisions will be made more precise and the level of penalties will follow the offshore security law. And if we do not comply with the rules on safety zones and serious accidents occur, it will also follow the penalties and penalties laid down in that law. We think that is common sense too. It is not a question of imposing new material requirements on business, but only of clarifying the rules in force, which we can also read in the consultation answers. So, on the whole, we support the proposal and think it is very sensible. Having said that, I just have to point out one thing. It is that the bill we have here will impose more work on the Labour Inspectorate. This will also be the case in the next legislation that we have, and that is why I have to say again from the platform to the government and also to the Danish People's Party, which is involved in the financial negotiations: don't impose more tasks on the Labour Inspectorate and at the same time save on them. I have said this several times, including in consultation with the Minister for Employment. I do not think that is okay, and that is why I hope that you listen to this and drop the savings you intend to make with the Labour Inspectorate. This is, of course, something quite different, but I just have to say it here, because more tasks will be assigned to them in the next legislation, which is why it is important to say in this legislative procedure. But in addition to that, we support the bill and think it is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133206	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133216	Thank you for that, President. The bill actually seems very simple and simple, even though a great deal is hidden in it. It is, of course, about moving the Resort from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister for Employment on offshore oil and gas activities. This also applies to the safety zones that are moved from the continental shelf law to the offshore security law. It is also quite fine to bring it together there, and of course everything else equal we can support such legislation. Because it's best to have it all together in one place. I can only agree with what Leif Lahn Jensen said, namely that we must, of course, also ensure that moving it does not have any negative consequences for the Labour Inspectorate. I do not have an overview of how much work it gives to the Labour Inspectorate when it is moved from one Ministry to another, but it may be that the Minister, when the Minister comes to the Chair at some point, can say a little about the impact it will have on the work of the Labour Inspectorate. But as such we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133344	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133352	Thank you. In the Left, we are very concerned that there is good safety in Danish workplaces and that neither employees nor the environment are exposed to a safety risk in connection with the work. This applies regardless of whether the workplace is on land or offshore, and in order to enforce safety in the most appropriate way, there needs to be clear legislation. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the aim of the bill is to bring together all safety regulation of offshore oil and gas activities, and it is proposed to move the area from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister for Employment. It is therefore proposed to shift the regulation of safety zones from the continental shelf law to the offshore safety law, which already regulates safety and health conditions in offshore oil and gas activities. It makes sense because in this way we are bringing together all safety regulations in this area. The rules on safety zones in the continental shelf law have a safety purpose and should therefore be applied by the Labour Inspectorate together with the other safety requirements for offshore oil and gas activities. The Labour Inspectorate, with its bill, will have a single authority over safety in this area. The draft law also responds to the need for individual provisions to be made more flexible, clarified and clarified. This applies, among other things, to: the scope and definitions of the offshore security law, linguistically consistent approaches and individual directive provisions. And in this way, the proposal supports clearer legislation in favour of the environment and employees offshore. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133547	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024133554	Thank you. We have heard what the purpose of this is, namely to move the supervision of offshore activities to the Minister for Employment, which is why it is important to consider how this can be done so that it is safe from the point of view of safety and health and that the tasks are solved. It also says that there is a need for individual provisions to be made more flexible, and then I feel that when it comes to EU legislation too, attention should be paid, which is why it is rather important for the Minister to explain what it is that needs to be more flexible, because it is not clear from the papers that we have been sent out. In Norway, a special committee examined a number of serious accidents in this sector, and they concluded in the report entitled 'Helse, work environment and safety in the petroleum company' that it is important that functional rules exist, that there should be accountability of the actors and that there should be risk-based and dialogue-based monitoring follow-up. They point out that there is a high level of health, health and safety in the Norwegian petroleum industry, even though there have been serious challenges in recent years. There had been some serious accidents and that was why they had made the report. They say that the follow-up, which is well-functioning, should be continued, but also that companies should follow up their responsibilities and further develop the level of safety in line with technological developments. I would really like a message from the Minister about whether we in Denmark in the industry are fully in line with Norwegian considerations and conclusions now that they have taken the trouble to do this study. We think it is positive that environmental considerations are now included with the same weight throughout the legislation as safety and health, and we agree that safety zones should be extended to connected infrastructure and that connected infrastructure should be treated as part of the facilities. With regard to moving the regulations on offshore installations, the safety zone of installations, from continental shelf law to offshore law, we need answers to some questions before we can take a position on the bill. First of all, we want to know what the justification is for moving this area. Has it been unsatisfactory to have it over in another ministry or what? Have there been any problems communicating between the two ministries? Secondly, we would like to know what the consequences are for the work of the Labour Inspectorate. After all, we have seen in the Finance Bill that the Minister will cut the Labour Inspectorate once again in 2018 with 24 years' work. How the hell is it connected, that is to say, you cut the Factory Inspectorate and give them new jobs? We don't understand. In this bill, no money has been transferred from the former ministry to the current ministry to carry out the task, and how can it be done, and where does that money come from if anyone comes? Are they yet again to be burdened with new tasks by the Labour Inspectorate and at the same time reduced to 24 years' work? It is a needy labour inspectorate that we have at the moment, because there is a lack of resources to be able to carry out the current tasks, and how are they going to carry out the new tasks, Mr President? Minister? I would like an explanation for that. If they are not given new resources, I find it hard to see how they are going to take on the new task. The statement also states that there are no administrative consequences for the state, county or municipalities, either positive or negative, nor economic consequences. That can't be right! It cannot be that it costs no extra for the Ministry of Employment to take over these tasks unless less time is spent on it than was done in the previous ministry. That's why, sir. Minister, I would like us to get a proper briefing on what the purpose is and how the Ministry will do these tasks that I have pointed out. I would also like to know whether we have the experience of Norway involved in Danish practice and legislation, and whether we might be able to include the experience of the review in Norway, so that we might even be able to do the work better in the future than we have done so far. Indeed, it turns out that the industry has pointed out that minor accidents are actually at an unacceptable high level in the Danish offshore industry. The major accidents they seem to be in control of, but the minor accidents are still away a significant observation point for the industry in Denmark, and we might as well discuss this with you as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134036	Thank you to the rapporteur. In all mildness, I would like to say that there is also something called cheat gangs that you should be careful about. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134047	Thank you. This bill will bring the offshore safety legislation into the offshore security law of the Ministry of Employment, and we find it very difficult to have any political objections to that and the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal. I also think, of course, that it will be exciting to follow some of the elements mentioned by the previous rapporteurs in the forthcoming committee work, where we will then be a little more aware of the actual implementation. However, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134117	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134123	Thank you very much. After all, the draft law has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs, and we are very much in agreement that it can make good sense to bring together the security regulation, so it is in the same law and under the same ministry. However, we also have concerns about whether the Labour Inspectorate will be entrusted with more tasks, as other rapporteurs have also said, without having more resources, and perhaps, as has been mentioned, they will be reduced to 24 years' work, but will still have more work to do. So basically, in the alternative, we support the intention behind the proposal, but in the committee work we want to follow whether something is being done in relation to the resources of the Factory Inspectorate on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134222	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134235	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is the rapporteur on this bill, but on behalf of her and on behalf of the Radical Left, I shall give the rapporteur's speech here at first reading. With the bill, all regulations on safety on offshore activities are transferred from the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate to the Ministry of Employment, so it will be the Danish Labour Inspectorate that is responsible for the supervision. We in the Radical Left think this is a good idea and we believe that it will upgrade both security and supervision. That is why we support the bill. However, we would also like to say, as a side remark here at first reading, that we are very concerned about the proposal and wonder whether the Factory Inspectorate has sufficient resources to carry out this and other tasks. As I have said, we are concerned about whether they can, and we would like to negotiate this with the government in relation to the Finance Act or anything else where we would like to support an increase in resources for the Labour Inspectorate. As I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134335	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134343	It makes great sense to move tasks to a ministry that already has expertise in this area. Therefore, SF can support the bill, which hopefully will also lead to a boost in the working environment at sea. On the other hand, it is pointless for us to keep moving tasks over to the Factory Inspectorate and impose on them new areas that they need to take care of without keeping up with the money. So with one remark, I can say that the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134418	Thanks to the SF. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134429	We agree with what the other rapporteurs have said, and we can also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134449	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have been on the floor for the positive comments that have been made about the draft law here today. In the field of health and safety there is a long and good tradition that the social partners play a central role in relation to the working environment offshore. I am also pleased that the social partners in the Offshore Safety Council have been actively involved in the drafting of this bill, and this is also evident from the material we are discussing today. The Government considers that it is important for the working environment offshore that the safety regulation be brought together and exercised by a single safety authority, namely the Factory Inspectorate. High safety and good working environment will also reduce the risk of pollution by offshore and oil/gas activities. The Government therefore proposes to move the regulation of safety zones around offshore installations from the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate to the Ministry of Employment. In addition, the Government considers that there is a need to clarify the offshore security law, including: in relation to the offshore safety directive. And that is what the committee procedure is going to be about. A large number of questions have been asked here at first reading. I would like to return to some of them in writing, but the whole question of economic and administrative consequences is, in fact, very well described in the draft law on page 13. What is rather important, perhaps also to keep in mind, is that if you look at what history has been like, then it was the case that the responsibility for the offshore security law and its related tasks was transferred to the Ministry of Employment per year. 1 January 2015. So many activities have already moved to the Ministry of Employment, and this happened under the former SR government, where they were moved from the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate to the Danish Labour Inspectorate. So this is a slightly smaller part, which is why I would also like to have the opportunity to clarify that this is not in any way something that is going to undermine the Labour Inspectorate's finances by no means. I have noted that several people have shown interest in this, and I will then of course return to it in writing. In relation to the Norwegian experience that Christian Juhl mentions, I also think I will come back with answers to that question in written form. At any rate, I am not in a position today to give a full answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134718	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134723	Thank you. I just think that if one ministry transfers tasks to another ministry, isn't there a tradition of moving the economy over too? Or should you save that money in the Ministry of Energy when you no longer have to do that task? And why has the Minister not ensured that such things are in place in a legislative proposal, instead of writing that it is without administrative or financial consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134749	Now it's the case that you can't just play free in a bill, sir. Christian Juhl. So what is announced in a legislative proposal is the economic consequences. So when it stands as it does, it is because it is estimated to have no economic consequences. And there, Christian Juhl asks for a proof of truth for it. It will be difficult to give a proof of truth to Christian Juhl, all experience tells me, but I would like to go deeper and then explain to Christian Juhl why it is in this way that it has no financial consequences for the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134818	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134820	Well, sir. Christian Juhl does not need proof of truth at all, but for a certain probability that it does not burden a labour inspectorate which is so much burdened at the moment, as the Minister himself has pointed out on this platform and in the committee several times. In fact, we have a very, very tense situation in the Factory Inspectorate, and we have to do something even before the Committee of Experts has finished looking at the working environment. That's why I'm asking. It is the Minister's own nervousness about the state of the Labour Inspectorate that makes me ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134851	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134852	I would like to thank you for the care shown to me as Minister. I would therefore also like to give a written answer to Christian Juhl as to why it should not in any way be feared that this will starve the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134906	Thank you. Sir. Then there are no more brief comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134922	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024134942	For the Social Democrats, as for many others, it is crucial that you go to work happy and you go home happy again. You only do that if things are in order at work, if you have a good working environment and you feel you have a healthy and safe job. That is why, of course, we would like to recognise the companies that are making an effort and the companies that ensure good conditions for their employees, and that is why we have also been involved in the introduction of the certification system and the kronsmiley. It is clear that when we do things like this and make agreements, we also expect the system to work and produce good results. Unfortunately, it happened a year ago that the case in Aalborg with Siemens and Vestas showed that there are apparently gaps in the system that, even if you are a certified company, you can produce one job injury after another. As a conciliation party, of course, we have to take this seriously, which is why we made the agreement that is now being implemented today back in November 2016. With the agreement we get 500 visits from the Factory Inspectorate to certified companies over a 3-year period to ensure that everything is as it should be. If this proves not to be the case, the body, i.e. the certification body, will be involved unless it is serious and an injunction will be given. In case there are problems, companies will lose their crown smiley until things are right again. In order to improve the quality of control of the working environment in companies, we will give the certification bodies more time in the company and develop and establish training that is targeted at the people who enter the companies. Finally, we also want to make sure that companies inform this body about accidents at work and occupational diseases known to the company so that they can react in good time. With this agreement and this way, I have no doubt that we are strengthening this scheme, that we are ensuring a better working environment in companies, and that we are ensuring that the rules we are making and the system we are building up also work better. It is also very important for me that the social partners, who are just sitting on the Working Conditions Council, support the proposal and have helped to identify some of these solutions themselves. So, with these words, we support the proposal, but we will of course be very vigilant as to whether these new measures are working and, of course, we will also keep a constant eye on it in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135206	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135211	In the political agreement, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and the Social Democratic Party have been involved in working with the government, says that the Danish Labour Inspectorate must treat certified companies like all other companies. That is in paragraph 7 of that agreement. Is it going to happen with this change that you treat all companies the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135235	It's gonna happen that we make these extra 500 visits over 3 years to make sure you can't tuck in even if you're certified. In the past, if you were certified and had a crown smiley, you didn't get those extra visits that you can have. Now you can't get laid anymore. Now they actually come out and make these extra visits, and in that way you can also risk losing the crown smiley if you don't have things in order. It was precisely because of what we saw that happened in Aalborg. That is why I believe, along with the other things, that you should also tell about the diseases and occupational injuries that are happening, and then we can much better control the companies that have this certification.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135317	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135319	This means that the Factory Inspectorate does not treat certified companies like all other companies in the future. They get some visits, but they do not get a command on the things that the Factory Inspectorate sees, like all other companies do. This means that there is a special scheme for a group of companies which we thought were elite companies, but which we know today has an average lower standard than those which do not have certification. How does that work, sir? Leif Lahn Jensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135346	That is not quite how I understand this agreement, but now others and the Minister must finally say if it is not correct. What I understand is that with this agreement, when the Labour Inspectorate comes out and makes these extra 500 visits, they will tell this certification body if it turns out that there are any problems. If they see that there are serious problems and that there is real danger, then the injunctions will come and they will also come when they are out there. So that means that if there is something really serious, the Factory Inspectorate will respond. That's what it says. I'm gonna have to say that to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. It is in the agreement, and I believe that it is also in the draft law, and the Minister can then confirm that. But we must at least be clear about that. When we do it that way, it is much safer that the Labour Inspectorate comes out there and can give those instructions if it is serious, and if there are problems, we have to have the certification body on, and then they lose the crown smiley until they get things straightened out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135454	Thank you for that, President. This bill is based on the agreement that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has just mentioned the improvement of the crown millenium and the health and safety certificate on the basis of some cases that have been before, among others. With Siemens, I think it was, with chemicals. We must, of course, be sure that the conditions are in order with those who have a health and safety certificate, and this is done here by changing the rules on it, and when the Factory Inspectorate comes out, they must of course look at what is going on at the companies they are going to report to the certification bodies. They come out and visit 500 companies over three years of age, and I will not rule out the possibility of more companies being involved. I think that depends a little on what kind of impression the Factory Inspectorate gets from the 500 companies selected for special visits. In addition, the Factory Inspectorate also comes out and looks at it if there is reporting and notification of a company. Because it shouldn't be the case that just because you have a health and safety certificate, you can get out of it and think that the sacred grave is well-preserved. Of course it's not. The Factory Inspectorate checks where it is needed, and if there is a notification that something is happening on the company it may be an accident, or if the employees report the company for something that is not in order then of course you also send the Factory Inspectorate out and control the efforts on the company. We believe, of course, that this will help to improve the working environment for companies, because I believe that the companies with a health and safety certificate will, of course, ensure that conditions are in order. Because it also matters to their partners, so that when they have to sell their products, there are many who put emphasis on it and ask: Is the working environment okay before we trade with you? It also has something to do with the quality of the products. If the working environment is in order, the products are also often better. In any case, more care has been taken to ensure that it is good quality if you have good working conditions, and we must, of course, ensure that. It is not for nothing that companies want a health and safety certificate. It's not just to get no visitors. In the Danish People's Party we certainly do not believe that it is with the background that companies apply for a health and safety certificate. We assume, of course, that it is because they want to have a good working environment and ensure that it is one hundred percent in order for employees and the company. But what we need to be aware of is that there has been a criticism from the occupational physicians that they do not believe that the Factory Inspectorate can do the work they should do. After all, occupational physicians have helped to draw up a legislative proposal and the work to be done to those who are ill. This morning I was contacted by DR News, where the occupational physicians raised criticism of the bill. I would, of course, ask the Minister for Employment to get in touch with the occupational physicians before we do the third reading so that we can hear what that criticism is about. Are there any justified and relevant criticisms from the occupational physicians that we must take into account here in the context of legislation? 'Cause then, of course, we're gonna have to hear what they're saying. They are not, of course, entitled to be consulted as such, but I understood from the Minister that they have helped to shape everything up to the legislation on the action. And if there is any relevant criticism from them, I think it is appropriate to examine what it is really about. I would therefore ask the Minister to contact the occupational physicians and to hear what this is all about. Is there anything in the legislation that needs to be corrected before the third reading? Because we certainly need to be sure of that so that we do not do anything wrong. I cannot say whether the criticism is justified or what it is, but I do not assume that they raise a criticism if they do not think that there is something to be looked at. So, with this call to the Minister of Employment, we in the Danish People's Party, of course, expect to support the bill when it is put in place. However, if there is some justified criticism and something that needs to be corrected, then I think it should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024135955	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140001	Thank you. Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, says that the companies that are certified will certainly make a great effort to ensure that the working environment is safe in terms of safety and health. Now we have had this certification scheme for a number of years and we have had the crown millenium for a number of years, but it has turned out that the environmental standard in the certified companies is on average lower than in those companies that have no certification. How on earth can the rapporteur think that these companies will do better in the future, just because they now have to be controlled by an enterprise to which they themselves pay, by 5%? extra time?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140040	We are, of course, doing so because we have changed the law and tightened up with companies. I guess, and I expect the companies will take this seriously, that if they do not comply, they will lose their crown smiley and they will lose their health and safety certificate. And I believe in at least until proven otherwise that companies will do what they can to meet the requirements we have in the health and safety certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140109	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140113	Thank you. Well, we've been saying that for many years now, we believe that until proven otherwise. It's proven now. The Factory Inspectorate has examined it and the National Audit Office has informed us that we will think about it. And then you come with this, which is 5 percent. More control time is not granted by the Labour Inspectorate, for they are only allowed to make inspection visits to 500 of the 3,000 companies, and they are not allowed to make general instructions when they come out. How is it going to change the behavior of these companies in the real world when you don't make any changes to legislation other than these little comma changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140151	Well, there's a reason we're changing the health and safety legislation, because I agree with you. Christian Juhl in that there has been something that has not worked in the past. Now the legislation is being changed here. And Mr. Christian Juhl says that the Danish Labour Inspectorate is not allowed to impose obligations, but I am sure that the moment they report, the company will be ordered by the certification bodies, and in this connection the Danish Labour Inspectorate is also required to cooperate there and they will be told: This is not acceptable, it needs to be corrected. If the Factory Inspectorate then comes out and finds conditions that give a yellow or a red smiley, then you will be deprived of the health and safety certificate that at least can no longer be seen on the website. And, of course, the Danish Labour Inspectorate is also in favour of checking the state of affairs in the company. It is not the case that the company can just run freewheels.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140243	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140254	Thank you. A good and safe working environment is crucial for the Left. That is why, as you know, the previous government, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left reached an agreement last year to strengthen health and safety certification in order to restore confidence in the health and safety certification and the Kronsmiley scheme. That, then, is the piece of legislation we are dealing with today. The previous rapporteurs have examined specific parts of the bill, so I would just like to say that the Left is concerned that employees in Denmark are working in healthy and safe conditions. Although the number of serious accidents at work on the Danish labour market is generally decreasing, unfortunately it is going the wrong way in the construction industry. We are seriously and worried about this, and that is why the government, with the Minister for Employment, has taken the lead, among other things. the introduction of a new method of supervision, which will lead to more unannounced visits to construction sites by the Factory Inspectorate. Because we have to react when we see this worrying development. We owe this to the many workers in the construction industry who are stepping hard every day on the pedals of society. That is why we also welcome this implementation of the agreement on the smiley system and the certification system. Because, as we have seen in specific cases, there is a need to strengthen supervision of the working environment in relation to companies with smiley systems. Basically, the Left believes that a recognised health and safety certificate is a good tool in the company's health and safety efforts, and therefore it is also crucial that we ensure a high quality in the system of a recognised health and safety certificate. In the Left, we believe that there is a need to strengthen the system and thus also the system for companies with a health and safety certificate to have a crown smiley on the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website. Because if we are going to have good working conditions in Danish workplaces and that is what we have to do, it is absolutely crucial that we have confidence in health and safety certification, because it is precisely an acknowledgement that the company is actually working seriously with the working environment. We must all be able to rely on this, employees as politicians, and that is why we must take it seriously when confidence in the system is broken. We must restore that trust. We must have healthy and safe working conditions in Danish workplaces. Against this background, the Left would like to support these proposals for amendments. We see these proposals as a strengthening of the Kronsmiley and certification schemes in general, and on this basis the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140612	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140616	Thank you. In the political agreement, like the Left Government, the Social Democratic Party and others, among others. The Danish People's Party, concluded in paragraph 7, states that the Danish Labour Inspectorate must treat certified companies like all other companies. That was also what the rapporteur and I agreed on when we visited Siemens in Aalborg. Everything about the crown smiley can seem like a blue in the eyes, like something that doesn't fit the real world at all. How are they treated? It says that the 500 companies can have an inspection visit, where general orders must not be imposed only if there is imminent danger, because, of course, action must be taken. However, general instructions must not be given by the Labour Inspectorate during this inspection visit to the 500 companies. The 2,500 companies get no visits at all. How can it be in line with point 7 that the Factory Inspectorate should treat certified companies like all other companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140715	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140718	I think we should welcome the fact that there are companies who are concerned about the working environment and who work so seriously with the working environment in their company that they will be covered by a certification scheme and can have a kronamiley. This means that local work at the individual workplace every day is seriously and continuously working to improve the working environment. And then I think it is a good thing that we have now put together a system in such a way that we take responsibility for the working environment together with the certification institutes which have to approve that the working environment meets the requirements of the working environment. I think that is in line with the intention and objective, Mr President. Christian Juhl read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140819	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140822	We should welcome the fact that some companies are working seriously with the working environment. I fully agree with that. However, in the course of the last two years we have found out that the companies with a certificate have a worse working environment than the companies that do not have a certificate. Why, then, should we believe that this will change in the future by volunteering, by making some small comma changes, and by telling the Labour Inspectorate that they are not allowed to give instructions in these companies when they come on an investigation visit? However, it should be the case that the companies with the lowest standard were looking more closely at the nails rather than just going through some survey visits to 500 companies. That is why I cannot understand why the rapporteur says that the Factory Inspectorate must treat certified companies like all other companies. You don't do that in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024140910-2	It will be a bit of a repetition, but I think we should welcome the fact that companies in Denmark are going in and saying: we want to work seriously and continuously to improve the working environment, and we are also concerned about getting a crown smiley for it. Then it is all about supporting it, and then we cannot live with the fact that there is doubt as to whether that crown smiley is also a real expression of a good working environment at the individual workplace. We are tightening this up with this bill, and I am delighted about it. And then we must continue to work to ensure that when there are serious overruns, the conditions are exactly the same, whether you are covered by the smiley scheme or you are not covered by the smiley scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141003	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Next, sir. Christian Juhl, and this is Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141024	Thank you. The aim of this draft law is to create the possibility of collecting knowledge about the supervision of certification bodies, to require certification bodies to strengthen control and to introduce increased requirements for inspection and certification bodies in relation to the mental health and safety environment, and to require companies with a recognised health and safety certificate to inform the inspection and certification body of reported accidents at work and known occupational diseases. It says "can" all the way. I thought we were gonna try to practice getting more strict legislation and say "Should." I would have preferred that. But if this is the answer, I would say that the question that has been asked has been exceptionally stupid. This is certainly not the question that we have asked on top of the Siemens scandals about the kron smiley, where the Danish Labour Inspectorate passed the company every time and the 3,000 other companies that have kronsmiley. As the Factory Inspectorate then investigates it, it turns out that those companies have an average lower working environment than those that have no certification. This means that they do not work more systematically with their working environment than other companies. This means that they should have abolished the special scheme, that the Factory Inspectorate runs past them when they are out on regular supervision and on risk-based supervision. I thought that was what we had agreed with the Minister on. I also thought that the parties that have entered into this settlement agreed with us that we must put all companies on an equal footing; everyone must risk risk-based supervision and other supervision by the Labour Inspectorate on an equal footing and get orders on an equal footing. You don't get that with this bill. The Kronesmiley will not be replaced by a red and green smiley, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said. It's wrong. The Kronesmiley will be removed, and then it will come back. There are no signs that the working environment in this company is good or bad. The 500 companies must have an inspection visit, but the Factory Inspectorate must only deal with matters where prohibition or immediate injunctions are required. The Factory Inspectorate does not have to impose general obligations on these companies. They have to do that in other companies. So here they are not treated as equals. It's wrong to write it. If that is what the conciliation parties think they have agreed with the minister, then they should read through the bill properly, because that is not what it says. When the Factory Inspectorate then sees some things, they have to notify the authority or body which has made the certification and which, moreover, has been paid by the employer so I do not know how much system there is in it. Then they have to try to convince the company of it, and that gives some ambiguity. It is described in e.g. the contributions made to the draft law during the consultation phase. Here it will be possible to lose your crown smiley. But there is no signal to the outside world that it is wrong here, as in other companies, where, if it is a really bad business, you get a red smiley, and if it is a mediocre bad business, you get a yellow smiley. It just doesn't say anything. Why this particular concern for a group of companies that we thought were elite companies but which then turn out to be inferior to the other companies we have in the labour market? I don't understand. It would be very good to hear the conciliation circle and, in this case, the Minister, why such things are being done here. The certification body needs 5%. more time on control. Does the Minister think that this would have prevented the scandals that we have had in Aalborg at Siemens and the other scandals? It will cost 7.1 million. kr. to implement this over three years, but you can't explain where that money is going to be spent. Is it the Factory Inspectorate they're gonna be used for? There is no indication of this, for they will have to be pruned next year. Is it business that needs extra money? It is not quite clear either. All we need is 7.1 million. kr. For the next three years. I would like to ask the Minister how many additional annual work the Labour Inspectorate will need to make these 500 visits. Is extra money available for the 500 visits? And where is that money taken from? The draft law seems to have to be seen as a contribution to preventive work, but no savings have been made for either the public or the business sector as a consequence of the amendment of the law, for example. in the form of fewer accidents, fewer pensions, fewer sickness benefits. In other words, it is not expected that this will benefit the working environment and reduce the number of accidents and occupational diseases. I think it is important that we work on things that can change something and do not move commas into legislation and then say that we have indeed tightened up the legislation. The legislation on certification has been tightened up, but if you do not believe in certification and kronsmiley, there is a very, very limited improvement in this. I am voting in favour of the slightest improvement, but I am not in favour of providing false security to people, and we are in favour of this proposal. This will help to continue to believe that kron smileys and for that matter certified companies are elite companies, and that is notoriously wrong. The Labour Inspectorate and the Minister themselves have proved this in our committee meetings, and that is what we must start from. For this reason,
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141616	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141620	Thank you. Well, now you're listening to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl seems to think this is the most awful change of law. He uses the word false security and many other things. I just have to say here, too, that the Working Conditions Council, where the social partners sit both the employers, but also the employees, has been involved in this and has agreed to it here. Does that mean a lack of confidence, as I can hear Mr. Christian Juhl now states, too, that Mr. Christian Juhl has a lack of confidence in the social partners, and therefore also in the employees, when they have approved this in the way they have done? Is that what I'm hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141659	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141700	I've always learned that trust is good and control is better. That's why I'm trying to read the text here and see what it says. When the Social Democrat rapporteur reveals that he has not got into the text and believes that all companies are treated equally, and when the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says that during these survey visits companies may risk getting a red or a yellow smiley and that is wrong in relation to the text, then I think it is a good idea to always read the text and then make his own assessment of it. Of course, the social partners had to do the same before they gave their opinion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141736	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has another comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141738	But I didn't get the answer to the question at all. It is fine that the rapporteur does not agree with me and the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. But the question was about the social partners: does it also mean that the social partners have no control at all, that the social partners have not read the law at all, or that the social partners do not understand what is happening around their ears? That is what I hear the rapporteur say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141801	If the social partners, like the Social Democratic Party, believe that this minimal tightening changes the scandalous conditions we have in terms of certification and crown smiles, then they are not their job, either in employers' circles or in trade union circles. Because then you have not seen how serious the problem is, but you think that with some small changes you can change things. So the rapporteur is absolutely right that this is how I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141832	Thank you. There are no more comments or questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141842	The proposal here makes increased requirements for certification bodies and their control of companies with a health and safety certificate. The background is, of course, among other things. This analysis, which in fact could not find a better working environment in the workplaces which have a health and safety certificate. And, of course, it is problematic when the whole reason why you can get rid of risk-based supervision is that you have to make a special effort in this area. And that is why we also support this bill, which then takes the step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141915	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, has a comment for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141920	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of whether the rapporteur believes that a certification and a crown millenium scheme can provide a better working environment, since we now have an experience from the last two years that shows that those companies have a worse working environment than those companies that do not work with certification. What makes you think that it is elite companies and that the others are companies that are not so good? It's the opposite of what reality is. Why, then, should special attention be paid to those companies that have the worst working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024141953	I fully agree with the rapporteur that the figures that came out in this analysis were surprising, and I think that it is deeply problematic when you make a certification scheme where employees and generally citizens in Denmark have a belief that they are doing better when it turns out that they did not. That is why I think it is a good step that is being taken, but we also have to say that I have a fundamental belief that companies themselves have an interest in creating a good working environment. Whether it is a certification scheme that does so alone, I do not know, but I have a belief that companies themselves have an interest in it. At least they should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142033	Speak for it. One more comment. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142036	Thank you for that realization. There are still 2,500 companies that will not be visited by the Danish Labour Inspectorate for the next 3 years. There are 500 of the 3,000 who have a certificate that will have a so-called inspection visit. Why should the Factory Inspectorate, when they are in the company anyway, not give instructions on all the things that they see are contrary to the law? Why should any of these things just have to be pushed to the corner, and they say, "You have to try to discuss this with your certification organisation?" Why should the special considerations be taken into account when the conciliation parties in the political agreement have decided that in future all companies should be treated equally. They're not gonna be like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142114	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142116	No, but it can be said that this is step one, and we are all fully aware of this area, and we are all interested in companies lifting up in this area. So I don't think it's like we're doing this now, and then we're gonna sit back and think that everything's fixed now, because it's not. But this is just a step in the right direction, which is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142141	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142147	Thank you very much. This bill has also been thoroughly examined by rapporteurs from all angles, and I would like to say that we actually think that there is an improvement in the smiley system in the draft law, but at the same time we also believe that Mr. Christian Juhl has a point: the Smiley Scheme has not worked as intended. That is why, in fact, we think that the most important thing when we look forward is that some improvements are now being made to the smiley scheme. However, if, after that period, it still turns out that the smiley scheme does not work, we very much hope that other parties will be aware that we will then have to get some other action under way. So we support the proposal because we think it is an improvement, but we hope that there will be proper attention to the fact that there could be other measures that worked better than the kronamiley scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142252	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142253	What is the reason why a certified company that is visited by the Labour Inspectorate and where it turns out that there is a violation of the law should not have a red or yellow smiley like the other companies, so that there is a danger signal when you go in and look at the Labour Inspectorate's website? For then there is no possibility for customers and others to see that there is a company here that does not live up to its crown smiley and that it is a little serious or very serious. Why should they not have this message on the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website for certified companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142330	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142332	Well, we're quite in agreement with sir. Christian Juhl in that it should be the case that the agreement that has been made also puts the companies in the same position, so we do not think this is the best solution. But it's still a Mr. Christian Juhl has also said minimal improvement of the existing system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142355	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142357	Could the rapporteur elaborate on what he thinks might be more appropriate in order to make some real changes in the field of health and safety? To be honest, we have had an experience over two years, which means that not many people believe that the crown smiley and the certification system are the way into the working environment sky. It is actually the case that those companies that do not have certification seem to work equally systematically with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142424	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142425	Basically, in the alternative, we believe that risk-based supervision is the right approach and that this is the way in which supervision should be carried out. If there is currently no majority for a purely risk-based approach, we believe that the kron smiley is another option, but that it is not optimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142451	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142459	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is going to be the rapporteur on this draft law in committee and I am going to give our rapporteur's speech here at first reading on behalf of her and on behalf of the Radical Left. In the OSH area, we are currently working on a number of improvements to the legislation. The bill here is one of them. The agreement was actually concluded a year ago, but it is now that the agreement is being implemented in new legislation. It is a tightening up of the health and safety certification system, the so-called smiley system, which Mr. Morten Østergaard is the author. It works, but there has been too easy association with it and too many cases that have shown sloppyness. This is being tightened up with more supervision and a better framework for supervision. In particular, the Radical Left has worked to strengthen the competences of supervision within the psychological working environment, so that it is more involved. That is clear from the agreement; we are very pleased with that. We will follow the work closely and also pay particular attention, as I also mentioned in the previous speech on another bill, to whether the Labour Inspectorate has the resources to carry out the task. We may be concerned about that, and we will keep the Minister and the government up to it. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142622	Thank you. A brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142627	I understand that the Radical Left has focused primarily on the psychological working environment. However, it is not also important that we do not build a new illusion about the crown millenium and stick to the objective set out in the political agreement, namely that the Factory Inspectorate should treat certified companies like all other companies. In this case, they will have 3 years without visits for the 2,500 companies, and then 500 companies will have a cautious visit called a survey visit, which does not have to be ordered, just as we have to do with ordinary things. Of course, you have to stop the company when someone is about to be killed and when an immediate injunction is needed, that is, by very, very serious violations. Why this particular consideration for a group of companies that have to work quite hard to reach the average of Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142719	As I said in the rapporteur's speech, we in the Radical Left agree with the Enhedslisten that there has been some sloppiness. We believe that, among other things, there is a need for a common approach. With this bill and the deal you've made, it's gonna fix it. The very specific questions about those who have been given the elite smiley, please, Mr President. Christian Juhl to go with our rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who is certainly more interested in it. Basically, I can say that both my position and that of the party is that if somebody has committed some serious violations, then of course you have to take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142753	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142755	Thank you. The political agreement, paragraph 8, also states that there must be transparency in relation to complaints about certification bodies. The legal documents that we have been given state that it can be done Is it the case that the Radical Left will ultimately require the Minister to ensure that there is transparency in complaints about certification bodies and transparency in general with regard to certified companies, so that a trade union can actually gain access to what is happening behind the facade of a certified company?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142832	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142833	I think that is a relevant criticism from Mr. Christian Juhl. If there is a discrepancy between the agreement that has been made and the legislative proposal here, then of course we will take it up in committee and ensure that the agreement is respected. We all have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142848	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024142856	We must be able to rely on the assessments made by companies, even when it comes to the working environment. This has not always been the case, but it is high time that the area of certified companies was cleaned up. A year ago we saw the consequences of certified companies playing hide-and-seek with the Factory Inspectorate. With this bill, the companies with the so-called kronsmiley will also be sought by the Factory Inspectorate. Of course, the companies shouldn't just be able to sit back against the crown smiley. Of course, such a shoulder flap as it is must be removed. The Labour Inspectorate should not advertise companies that do not comply with the rules. There is not necessarily much elite about the award of a crown smiley. This bill isn't gonna change the whole thing. In some areas the opportunity should have been taken to go further. But it's a bit more than jumping on the spot. Overall, it will give a small turn in the right direction, and therefore we are in SF positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143020	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143025	The SF's rapporteur said that companies must now be able to tolerate visits by the Labour Inspectorate. Is the rapporteur aware that only 500 of the 3 000 companies are visited, that the 2,500 are still totally exempt from the Labour Inspectorate's visit, and that this is not a real labour inspection visit, but only a so-called inspection visit?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143048	Yes, I am aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143050	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143055	What consequence does the rapporteur think it will have for these companies, in other words that they still have a special scheme during the transitional period?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143104	This will lead to the fact that for some of them something will actually be corrected. I don't think it's ideal, I don't think that's how we should do it, but it's 500 companies that get visitors, but it's better than 0. It is also true that if these thinking people who come before the Labour Inspectorate come up against something they cannot immediately impose on, then they can probably let that knowledge pass through their organization so that it is followed up. But it's not ideal, it's just better than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143134	Thank you. I have no more on the list, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, and that is Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143149	We agree with the comments of the other rapporteurs, with the exception of the Enhedslisten, and can also support the bill. We think such a system here with a health and safety certificate is very good because it allows companies to work with the working environment themselves and in fact also to minimise the supervisory role of the Factory Inspectorate. That is why we are very pleased that some initiatives are being taken which strengthen the scheme and hopefully restore some more confidence in health and safety certificates.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143227	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143231	I would like to know whether it is most important for the rapporteur to restore confidence in the certification system, or whether it is most important for there to be real improvements in the working environment and safety at work. It has been found that certification is no way to improve the working environment. It is a way to create some illusions about how the working environment is. Everyone says that we need to restore confidence in the certification system, but if the certification system is • to put it bluntly • rotten, why should we restore confidence in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143308	It is, of course, about getting real improvements in the workplace; that is clear. We still have faith that a health and safety certification system can help with this and that it is precisely to focus the control task on those companies that may not work as intensively with the working environment as those who choose to enter a certification scheme. Therefore, we basically think that it is a very good idea with such a certification scheme, where companies themselves make an extra effort and are certified. In this way, the Labour Inspectorate may be able to control them a little less than the other companies. We think this is a good idea, and we also believe that it really brings about improvements in the workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143354	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143355	But now that the political parties agree that the Labour Inspectorate should equalise those companies with companies without certification, why have they been exempted from having a yellow and red smiley if things are not right? Why should the smiley just be removed so that those who enter the Labour Inspectorate website can see nothing about the company? Would it not be better for them to have a yellow smiley if there are minor errors to be corrected and a red smiley if it is quite unacceptable, so that they are equated with those companies which do not have a certificate and which seem to have an average working environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143433	We think it is okay that the companies that choose to obtain a health and safety certificate are also recognised for it, including by the authorities on the website.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143445	Thank you. Then there's no more on the list. I thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143456	Thank you, too, to the many rapporteurs who, at first reading here today, support the draft legislation that is being discussed. What is crucial is that the government considers that a recognised health and safety certificate is a good instrument for company health and safety efforts. Therefore, it is also important that there is high quality in the system of a recognised health and safety certificate and thus also in the system of a crown smiley on the Danish Labour Inspectorate's website. As you know, there are initiatives in the political agreement of November 2016 between the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left, which are now strengthening the system of recognised health and safety certificates. The Government considers it important that knowledge on the supervision of work processes by certification bodies can be collected in the companies which receive a recognised health and safety certificate. In addition, the government also considers it important that increased requirements can be made for the certification bodies' control of the working environment in companies and for the competences of certification bodies. The aim of the bill is to enable the information requested to be collected and to make increased demands on the certification bodies, all of which in my world help to strengthen our working environment. Then there have been a large number of comments today at first reading, among others. a comment from Bent Bøgsted on the basis of a criticism which I know has been raised today by the Association called DASAM, and that is, of course, something that we will have to deal with in committee. I am not fully aware of what the criticism is about, but of course I will contact the association on the basis of any comments they may have made, and then also ensure that the entire committee can get the knowledge that they would then give me, and that is the reason for a good discussion during the committee procedure. There have also been many other questions as to whether we are complying with the political agreement that has been reached. To that I can say: yes, we do. I think that among other things... Christian Juhl took out what is called initiative 8 • Transparency about complaints about certification bodies. After all, it is an initiative that has been launched on 1 January 2017; it has already been launched, and it has nothing to do with this bill. If there is a need for further knowledge about how it has been initiated and how it works, I would very much like to convey it to the committee and not least to Christian Juhl. In addition, I think it is important to say this, because there has been so much discussion about what is called initiative 7, and for the many thousands of people who sit and follow in this debate, it is perhaps nice to have it read out in context, and I quote in initiative 7: "The Labour Inspectorate must treat certified companies like all other companies: "And then there is a text below which has not really emerged from the debate: "The Labour Inspectorate does not deal with companies certified in terms of working conditions with kronsmiley in line with other companies. When the Factory Inspectorate takes out companies for supervision on the basis of, for example, notified occupational diseases, certified enterprises are exempted. The Danish Labour Inspectorate's procedures require that the Danish Labour Inspectorate treat certified enterprises with kronsmiley as all other companies, except that certified companies with kronsmiley are exempted from risk-based supervision and extended risk-based supervision. This means, among other things, that the Danish Labour Inspectorate must actively use work injury data to select companies for supervision, including certified companies with kronsmiley. In the case of complaints against a certified company with kronsmiley, the Factory Inspectorate must prioritize supervision according to the same criteria as other companies. In fact, I think it is quite important to clarify these things, because there are doubts as to what exactly is in Initiative 7.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143851	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143854	I was just starting from the legal text, where the seven points are mentioned with only one sentence, and I thought that the text that was there could be trusted. It was nice to know, no, not nice, because it is sad to know that the conciliation parties are not consistent. I thought, also from the debates we had with the Minister in committee, that we were actually talking about putting them on an equal footing. Why should the Labour Inspectorate take special account of a group of companies with certificates when they are on inspection visits, and not impose general orders, but only impose orders if it is almost going completely wrong with the company, since we have repeatedly said that if we do not equate these companies and separate certificates and crownmiley, we get illusions on the labour market, and then customers of the companies cannot trust the information that comes? Why do you not really equate those companies so that there is also risk-based supervision on those companies? That is the problem we were discussing with Siemens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024143958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144000	What has been given the impression from Mr. Christian Juhls's side is that you have only read out what it says, namely that the Danish Labour Inspectorate must treat certified companies like all other companies. And then I have allowed myself to read out of the political agreement just to nuance this discussion. I think it is a very, very good political agreement that has been made. And I am also pleased with the broad support there is. Then I also note that, in today's debate, we have seen, if I may say so, the positions moving forward. Because I think this was the case during the debate with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that there was a question as to why the Labour Inspectorate could not impose an injunction if they went to a company. And, of course, it is important to say what is on page 6 of the draft law, namely that you have the opportunity to give an immediate order. This is a little crucial, because it is as if one is left in the belief that supervision comes out on a company and does not do anything even if people are falling on the floor next to them. It is, of course, a fairly crucial point that there is a possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144102	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144103	In my questions, I have asked why it is not possible to give general instructions. Why can only be banned and ordered immediately? That's what the question sounds like. And that means that only when there are really serious problems do we have to intervene, because it would be quite irresponsible if the Factory Inspectorate did not do so. But I would like to read out what it says about the other things. It says: "The Labour Inspectorate will advise the certification body that has issued the certificate to the company... As provided for in the policy agreement, the warning does not constitute a decision as it does not involve a legal obligation on either the certification body or the company to remedy the identified health and safety problems. This means that if, under normal circumstances, a general injunction was needed, these companies will have nothing compared to a legal effect, and that means that special consideration is given to those companies, meaning that we know that certified companies have an average working environment that is worse than other companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144156	There were a large number of questions there which I cannot answer thoroughly, at least not in the short time I have. But what I would like to say is that they owe it to them to have a written answer, not least the claim that those who have a crown smiley had to have a worse working environment. Mr. Christian Juhl stressed many times in today's debate. I am aware that this is about a report prepared by the Danish Labour Inspectorate and which there is a different interpretation of how to understand. For as Mr. Christian Juhl also knows that there is also a discussion about whether there is a sub-notification of accidents at work and the like, where you can see that there is a difference between companies. But I think we should have a debate on this during the committee procedure. I think it deserves that, and I take note of that too, Mr President. Christian Juhl is willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144242	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144255	The debate is open. And it is first the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144318	Thank you. I want to make this very brief. The legislative proposal we have here will update, adapt and ensure the future implementation of a number of EU rules on product safety for the products covered by the law. In this draft law, the cableway system and personal protective equipment are particularly important. At the same time, the Member States will have the opportunity to intervene if a product proves to be dangerous, even if it actually complies with established rules, and it will typically be the Labour Inspectorate in this country that will handle that part. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144350	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144359	Thank you for that, President. This bill might seem quite reasonable. After all, a directive which guarantees rules on cableway installations and the like, including in the case of lifts and such things, is being converted into a regulation. There is nothing we would like to criticise in this regard. But what we in the Danish People's Party do not like is the second part of the bill. And it goes on to say that in future, when we adopt this, we are giving the green light to the EU to change all directives into a regulation without interrogating itself in the various parliaments around the EU countries, leaving power to the EU to decide what should be. You replace the directives with a regulation, and a regulation is adopted down in the EU and should not be consulted in Denmark or other countries. It should just be applicable law, and Denmark must not be allowed to make rules in those areas where the EU comes with a regulation that is less restrictive or more restrictive than what we want; there must be the same rules throughout. The problem is that we do not know what the European Union is going to do in a regulation that the various parliaments around us, among other things. Parliament here in Denmark, not to be heard about. And in the Danish People's Party, we are not happy that we are saying yes to giving the European Union the power where they say there will be a regulation, and we just have to conform, because there are similar rules throughout the European Union. It may well be that there was something we would like to have stricter rules on, but that is not allowed because of a regulation. As I understand it, all directives in the field of employment, at least, are replaced by a regulation, and then we should not be consulted on new things, as I said, it will be called a regulation instead of a directive, and we will not be able to take a position on it; we will leave all the power to the European Union. We are not enthusiastic about this and therefore we cannot support this proposal. We can support the first part on cableways, lifts and such things, but we cannot support the legislative proposal as a whole. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have to say no to it. We would like us to have the opportunity in future to adopt a position on each directive that comes, and on each regulation that comes, in other words, where they will make some changes and make similar rules. Because, as I said, if there are some places where we think it should be tighter, we will also have the opportunity to say so, but we will not have that in the future. We should not take a position on this in the future, we should leave it all to the European Union, and the Danish People's Party just cannot do that. So that will be a no on the part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144715	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144719	Thank you. I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that it is not a good idea to authorise the Minister to take a position on future proposals in this area. Will the rapporteur help to find out whether we can divide the vote on the proposal so that in future we will have to take a position on every change that comes, just as it has been so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144747	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144754	Thank you. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The aim is to adapt the law to the future regulatory structure of the European Union. The other rapporteurs have, of course, examined the specific parts of the draft law, so I will not go into that much further, but I will just elaborate on the position of the Left on it, and I can do that relatively briefly. It goes without saying that product safety must be at the top of the list in the case of cableway installations and personal protective equipment. With the bill, we are increasing safety by allowing the Factory Inspectorate to take action against manufacturers, importers and distributors of products when products prove to be dangerous, even if they comply with the strict rules. The Left can only support that. It is crucial for the Left that the change first of all improves the safety of the products covered by the law and, at the same time, ensures fair competition between companies, even without being an unnecessary nuisance to industry. On the contrary, it is to the satisfaction of industry that it will be clear from the scope of the law which products are covered by the law. It will simply be easier to understand the safety requirements for specific products. Finally, it is positive that the amendment means that it is no longer necessary to amend the law each time a directive covered by the law is replaced by a regulation. Quite low-practical, it will save us unnecessary bureaucracy in the future. Against this background, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144926	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024144935	If L 22 is adopted, it means that the Folketing accepts that the EU will have even greater influence on Danish legislation, and what is perhaps the worst thing we accept is that where the EU allows us to decide for ourselves, we leave it to the Minister of Employment to lay down rules. When in a future EU regulation there are areas where the nation states themselves have to lay down rules, it is not the Folketing, but the Minister for Employment who lays down the rules in this area. The proposal for a new section 3a provides that Chapter 2 of the Act on the obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors does not apply if an EU regulation lays down obligations for manufacturers, importers and distributors. That is because we must take more account of the market than we take into account the content of the law. This is explained in the comments which state that it is contrary to Union law to have national regulations regulating the same matters as are regulated by the EU Regulation. And the comments also state that Member States must not impose fewer or more requirements in these areas than those laid down in EU rules. I think that is what we call a total regulation. The comments also state: "Therefore, the European Commission considers regulations to be the most appropriate legal instrument to introduce clear and detailed provisions which do not allow Member States to be implemented differently. In the Enhedslisten we do not believe that the Danish Parliament should accept that current Danish legislation should be put out of effect, as will happen if we adopt the proposal for a new section 3a. And we believe that it is the Folketing and not the Minister for Employment who should lay down the rules which are not laid down in the regulation and which we are therefore allowed to decide for ourselves. We believe that it is a shortcoming that, for each product, reference is no longer made to the directive or regulation to which the product is subject, but only generally to products covered by directives or regulations on harmonisation of the laws of the Member States. However, there is a positive proposal in L 22, and it is that the Labour Inspectorate can take action against a product which poses a risk to human health or safety or to the safety of livestock or property, even if the product complies with the requirements of laws, regulations and regulations. However, although there is this improvement, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145205	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and turn to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145212	Thank you. After all, the proposal here is a consequence of changing the directive on cableway installations for passenger transport and the directive on personal protective equipment in the European Union into regulations. As you know, this means that the directives, which have already been implemented in Danish legislation, have to be re-established, as the regulations have direct legal effect. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145233	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and turn to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolaj Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145239	Thank you very much. This bill has also been examined by several rapporteurs, both in the area of product safety and also in relation to what we see in the alternative as a debureaucratisation of the future process. So we can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145257	Thank you, there is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145303	Does the alternative see no problem in authorizing a minister to take a position on behalf of the Danish Parliament on the question of working conditions in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145313	Indeed, we can see both in this case and in other cases that there are many things being put on the Minister's table. Nevertheless, we believe that, in the broad picture and precisely in this situation, it would be positive that we should not also take a position in the Folketing on every small regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145336	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145339	I do not believe that the European Union distinguishes between small and large regulations. I think they say regulations, and then we have to live with the Minister for the future having to take a position on this, that is, until someone changes the law again. I would just like to hear: is the alternative absolutely certain that they will hand over that authority to the Minister in relation to both large and small future regulations and that they do not want to be involved in trying to get a majority to get it out of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145407	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145409	I can say that I am not a permanent rapporteur in this area, but that we are, of course, prepared to discuss in committee whether this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145421	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145432	I just need to breathe after a run over from the Ministry of Transport, where negotiations are also under way. As with the previous legislative proposals, it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen who is the rapporteur here, and I shall be holding the rapporteur's speech in her absence: it is purely technical: there are two directives which are converted into a regulation so that amendments do not have to be implemented constantly by law. This applies to the installation of cableway systems for passenger transport and to the directive on personal protective equipment. We think that is fine in the Radical Left and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145520	Thank you. There is one brief comment and the rapporteur may be allowed to breathe. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145527	I would like to use all my speaking time until the rapporteur has regained his breath. It is the case that the proposal also empowers the Minister to decide in future what comes from large and small regulations. The question is whether it is appropriate for this authorisation to be given to the Minister for Employment and not to remain in the Chamber. After all, no one knows what proposals will come in the future whether it is small retail changes or whether there are real changes in it. Therefore, at least from the Danish People's Party and others, and also from the Enhedslisten's side, there has been a desire to have this legislation made without the authority of the Minister of Employment. Could Radicals consider helping to withdraw that authority so that we are sure that it will at least get past the Folketing before it is decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145616	No, we are in favour of giving the Minister that authority. Our expectation is that the rules that will come are sensible and in an area where there will not be so much political disagreement. But I'd like to promise you, sir. Christian Juhl, that if something comes up that both Enhedslisten and Radicals would like to change, let us take it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145641	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145643	Well then, I think we should do it now, because if we first vote for this bill as it is now, the Minister will be empowered, according to section 3, to decide whether to implement the new rules, no matter how large or unreasonable or sensible they are, or how small they are. In other words, it is now that we must ensure that we get them past the Folketing before they are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145709	But that is what they do in the Parliament's Committee on Europe. In other words, if the Danish Government enters into an agreement with the other countries of Europe to make some rules here, it has been past the Folketing in the Committee on European Affairs, and there must be a majority in favour of the mandate with which one travels as a government to Brussels. So it comes over and that is why we are reasonably sure that we have a hand in dealing with these directives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145731	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are going to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145740	I would like to begin by expressing a great deal of sympathy to Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg's situation. As transport rapporteur, I should also be over in the Ministry of Transport, but we have different assessments of our physical capacity, and I then chose to stay in the Chamber. The European Union must be judged in concrete terms and on the basis of whether it is moving in the right or the wrong direction. The SF does not have such a religious relationship with the European Union and does not believe that it should be wrong in principle for the EU to take over some areas of work simply because it is the European Union. It is about the content and not in this situation that it is probably wrong just because it is the European Union. Of course, products tend to move across borders in general and by their very nature. That is why international agreements are necessary, both to ensure fair competition between companies and to ensure the safety of citizens. After all, the Factory Inspectorate is given the opportunity to take action against products that expose citizens to risks relating to health and safety. But there are also issues in the draft law that are moving in the other direction and that the SF is critical of. The SF is critical of the broad approval of the Minister. We want to be positive about finding proposals that can justify the Minister's right to decide on this, and we want to take a positive view of this in committee. But overall, the SF is positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145919	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024145934	It is a draft law which should create a slightly more flexible legal procedure for, among other things, The elevator industry, and it's an industry where things are going very up and down, and that's why we're glad we can do something good for it. All in all, we think this is a rather technical change. We do not immediately see that it has any major consequences out there in reality, but it probably makes the work in here a little easier. Of course, one can have concerns about how much we have to sit and approve every time there is a change. As far as we are concerned, we have no need for everything to go over our table, and we trust that the Minister can manage the authority we give him with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150024	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150028	As you know, the lobby companies in the European Union are quite strong. Let us now say that some Italian elevator company thinks that there are some restrictive rules in this and that it would give them a competitive advantage on the Danish market if they had relaxed some of the rules. They will then convince the European Union of this, and let us say that it can then be implemented with a bourgeois minister at the helm, because he thinks it is important for the market for these lifts to enter the market so that we can save some money. Would it not have been more sensible, for example, for example, for the European Parliament to be consulted on a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer? The Folketing still had the right to say: Yes, we would like to take a position on this, and we would also like to help prevent that if we can do so in Denmark at all, so we have the highest possible security?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150118	You can always discuss where you are most comfortable with the decisions. I think there are limits to how much detail we have to take in the Folketing, and I think this is at a level of detail where we are confident that it will be the Minister's decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150138	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150140	I myself feel that I have been elected to intervene in matters and to take a position on matters, not to leave it to ministers, and in principle I do not care whether it is a bourgeois or a socialist or, for that matter, a minister with a very third color. It is important that the Folketing is the place where decisions are made, and that is why I think it is a mistake to authorise ministers to take a position on these things that can be about life and death. These are not just technical barriers to trade in relation to a market; they are real tools for ensuring people in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150214	I think that even sir... Christian Juhl must acknowledge that, regardless of whether you have a desire to be allowed to make decisions, we in the Folketing cannot make all decisions. It simply does not allow time, nor does it allow our overview and level of knowledge and insight. So some decisions have to be delegated, and this is one of them that we feel safe about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150238	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150246	Thank you. Thanks also to the rapporteurs for the many, I think, constructive comments that have come to this bill. The aim of the draft law, as has been said several times, is to adapt the law to two new regulations: one on personal protective equipment, for example. safety shoes and helmets and one on cableway installations such as: includes ski lifts and cable cars. The regulations replace two directives which have been partially transposed into the law. At the same time, the law for future changes in the regulatory structure of the EU in the field of the law is assured. With the amendment, it will not be necessary to amend the law in future when a directive is replaced by a regulation. And, of course, it is here that there has been a great discussion and, in fact, also, I think, a very important political discussion. I will come back to that. It is expected that the EU will in future issue more regulations replacing directives which have so far been transposed into the law. For example: the European Commission will come up with a proposal for a regulation on machinery to replace the Machinery Directive. With the amendment of the law, the Labour Inspectorate will be empowered to intervene if it turns out that a product poses a risk, even if the rules and standards laid down are complied with. This gives the Danish Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to intervene against both Danish and foreign products in the field of the law, which poses a risk to human health and safety, even if the product complies with the rules in this area. This will, of course, be done after a concrete assessment of the nature of the risk and the likelihood of an event taking place. However, I also think that there is reason to acknowledge here at the end of some relatively fundamental points of view which have been raised both by Bent Bøgsted, Karsten Hønge and Christian Juhl and it is not every day that the coalition unfolds in Danish politics. It's a beautiful coalition, I can say. But what I think is interesting about what all three of us mention, and for which I myself have a very great understanding, is the question: is it wise to authorise a minister to do something? I think the Enhedslisten thought it was because there was a previous government that they supported. Then I remember that Enhedslisten has also agreed to authorization. I have also been very critical in the past, when the Left has not had the power of government, of authorizing ministers. I'd like to admit it's a confession case. But what I'm going to do, and it's actually to reach out to that proposal, sir. Karsten Hønge is going to say that when the Labour Inspectorate gets those powers, I think it would be wise to inform the Danish Parliament about the powers when they come into use. I think I will make a contribution on this during the committee procedure, so that the Folketing is informed before those powers are given. After all, a minister can do what a minister wants, but in general it is a good idea to have 90 mandates behind the policy that the government may pursue, also in relation to a minor detail such as what we are talking about here. So I think that could actually be some of the things that could meet the concerns of the SF. And that also leads to a more open debate. I agree, in principle, that the fact that we do not know who is taking the decisions can, of course, create some degree of confusion, but it must also be faced with the second question, namely that every time a directive is changed into a regulation, it will require a huge legislative mill. And that is precisely why it is proposed to create the model outlined here in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150618	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150622	Now I do not feel that I am keeping my hand over social democratic ministers, it has not been in my temper at least, nor has it been in the hands of bourgeois ministers. A little consideration must be given to them sometimes, but nevertheless clear considerations must be taken into account. When the Minister cites the Machinery Directive as an example, I would say that I would be sorry if the Machinery Directive were amended in the wrong direction without being asked. And when the minister says every single time it happens, I would say that there may have been one case in which we in this Chamber have had to decide on this area once, as I remember, in the relatively few years I have been sitting in here. But if there is no more, the Minister should not take such great care of the extra burden, because then I think we all manage to do it as rapporteurs. Is it not therefore easier for us to say: okay, at the rate it is coming at the moment, it now seems that we can handle it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150731	If it were better to choose that model, the government wouldn't have put forward this bill, you might say. That's because we think it's a better model. Then I am quite open to looking at how to make this model more transparent in committee. I understand that this does not completely satisfy Mr. Christian Juhl, but it may satisfy the Folketing to a greater extent. That's it, too, sir. Karsten Hønge wanted to know if we can get a more up-to-date knowledge on how to use the regulations and the legal basis given to the Danish Labour Inspectorate. I think that is a perfectly fair wish, even as a legislator. So, yes, I will make a model for that, and I have thought that we can discuss it in the committee procedure that is taking place, because I think that will benefit precisely the way in which we are discussing legislation today, so that it will not be about myths about whether you are being held in the dark without knowing what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150827	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150828	I have to say that, of course, any commitment by the Minister to move in the right direction must be appreciated. Of course. Therefore, we have to try to see if we can get some way with it, and if we can do that, it is good. However, I would rather we took the step of staying where we are when we delegate decision-making power in this area. But let us try to see what we can get out of the next few weeks' committee proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150857	With this fine consensus created by Mr. Christian Juhl's side, I do not think it is for me to contribute further to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150904	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024150907	Thank you. It's fine what the minister says. The minister is always very good at trying to talk about things like that, so there aren't any big problems anyway. But what worries us in the Danish People's Party is that you never know what is going to happen with a regulation, because as I read it, it is not just directives relating to this legislation on cableways and the kind that are being replaced by regulations. There may also be new regulations, so that instead of having to come up with a directive, we can come up with a new regulation, and what is the biggest problem is that we do not know what is going to be in such a regulation. But will the Minister guarantee that only existing directives relating to this specific legislation can be replaced by regulations and that no new regulations come down from the EU that have not been included in a directive before? That is the problem: we never know what the European Union is going to do and there must be the same rules in all countries. It is so reasonable in relation to this bill, but we know that when the European Union is turning it into regulations, it is not just this legislation; it is the whole area that is being changed. Then, in the future, regulations will be made instead of a directive, with a regulation that should not be consulted in individual countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151046	I would be very careful to give a guarantee for the future in relation to what might happen in European cooperation. I guess I am grateful for a constructive comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, because that is how I see it, but I do want future ministers to be able to tell me that there are ministers coming after me, and I want them to be obliged here today, when using this legal basis, to ensure that the Folketing knows how it is used. Then there is the possibility that it can be used differently. And I think that is precisely the most important thing for the Folketing to know: how is it that one will take advantage of the opportunity that one now gets when there will no longer be a legal treatment as there has been in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151132	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151134	But I am actually glad that the Minister for Employment recognizes that the time for an employment minister is running out too, because at some point Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen also retires and stops working so there must certainly be a new minister at that time. So it is a recognition that we must come to here today. But it is just the uncertainty of just giving the green light, that the European Union can come up with as many regulations as it wants without us having to approve what is coming. That is the big problem for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151207	But what we are discussing here today is something that has to do with technical issues, which, of course, should not lead to politics. That is, of course, what lies in the things that are being discussed now. But it is clear that there, like Mr. Bent Bøgsted and, actually, Mr. Bøgsted. Christian Juhl, I think, said, may well be things that are technical, in which there is also politics. And that is where I say that I only have an interest in ensuring that we can have an open discussion about it, that a minister can use an authorisation which there may be a majority against. Either you can make it open as a minister, or you can hide it, and there I think all experience suggests making it open, because otherwise you can have quite a lot of problems in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151255	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151310	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151335	The draft law here deals in particular with how we, as a society, treat children • children who have been subjected to sexual abuse, for failure and for abuse. It is therefore a great responsibility that rests on our shoulders in today's legal proceedings. To be honest, we have not done well so far. Time and again we have seen how cases of horrible and unforgivable abuse of innocent children have been abandoned due to limitation periods, and we have seen how the authorities have been able to avoid liability, even though abuse and abuse have taken place while they were responsible for the abused children. Let me just stop at the end: while the authorities were responsible for children placed in custody. When children are removed from their parents because of the parents' inability to parent, it is the responsibility of society and the authorities to look after children who have already experienced the worst start of life. When those children are further abused or subjected to abuse while in the custody of the authorities, it is a massive failure, such a massive failure that there are virtually no words for it. Today we are trying to make the legislation better for sexually abused children, for children placed at risk of abuse and for rape victims. The proposal is based on a resolution from the last session, in which a majority instructed the government to amend the legislation applicable to children in cases of abuse. The draft law here abolishes the limitation period for the perpetrator's criminal liability in cases of sexual abuse of children, and also abolishes the limitation periods for claims for damages and compensation arising from an administrative authority's failure to comply with statutory obligations towards children who have been subjected to abuse. The draft law also proposes the introduction of a lower limit at DKK 150,000. in cases of serious sexual abuse of children and that the level of compensation in all cases of sexual abuse is increased by about one third. In addition, the level of cases of enforced rape is increased by a further approximately one third. For rape victims, it is proposed that the notification deadline to the police of 72 hours in order to be able to apply for victim compensation be lifted. This was something we discussed when we went through the entire rape area and made a massive effort to reduce the number of victims. This 72-hour rule also applies to victims of incest and children who have been sexually abused. One small last thing that the Minister for Justice has brought into this bill is that in future it will be the minister under whom the Ankestyrelsen is authorised to nominate members of the Compensation Board. As has already been said, the Social Democratic Party has been involved in imposing on the government the changes to the legislation we are dealing with today, which concern both the issue of children, liability and the 72-hour rule for victims, which is why I must inform you that we can of course support the proposal here today and that it is historic that we ensure better conditions for the children we have failed for too many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151710	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024151720	The proposal provides for the removal of the limitation period in cases of sexual abuse of children. When it comes to sexual abuse of children, this is undoubtedly one of the worst forms of crime that people can commit. As it is today, these cases become obsolete after a certain number of years, and when the limitation period is reached, there is no possibility of bringing the perpetrator to account. The proposal removes the limitation period for sexual abuse against children, and that is very, very good. In some of the cases that have taken place, it will be the case that children will be able to grow up before they can take matters up and possibly bring the person responsible to account, and so it may take a great many years before this happens, so that the removal of the limitation period is, of course, very sensible. I have taken note of the fact that a few of the organizations that have submitted a hearing reply, for example. The National Organisation Against Sexual Attack and the National Association Tor, has called for the abolition of limitation periods to be implemented retroactively. This is not something that the proposal is proposing here. We would have liked that, and that is why, of course, I am sorry that this proposal is not going to happen. We would like the Danish People's Party to see the abolition of the limitation period applied retroactively. The proposal here is also intended to remove the current limitation period for claims for compensation and compensation which can be raised against public authorities which have failed to fulfil their responsibilities towards children. This is a special obligation, for example. Our municipalities have in matters relating to children, which is why it is also particularly important that the municipalities are extra careful to ensure that things are of course in order. If, with the same proposal, we do away with the limitation period in relation to the crime itself, the limitation period for claims for damages and compensation must of course also be removed. The comments on the proposal show that the government defines the offences committed against children covered by Articles 24 to 26 of the Criminal Code. That is to say, it is a wide range and type of abuse, where it is now possible to seek compensation for having been subjected to it here when the authorities have not responded adequately. So the proposal here is something better than what the government presented in its original proposal, and I would like to commend the government for listening to some of the wishes that have been expressed by different parties. There is also a proposal to adjust the tort allowance upwards by about one third and for enforced rape by two thirds, and then set a lower limit of DKK 150,000. for the sexual abuse of children. Of course, we warmly support an increase in the levels of tort compensation. There is a real need for this. Because there have been some cases where the level has just not been reasonable and where it may have seemed more like a mockery than in fact to show some sort of compensation to the victims. If the level is perfect, I don't know. It could certainly be higher, but we will have to look at that during the committee procedure. Finally, the 72-hour rule is removed to report rape and if you want compensation. It has been a great wish from the Danish People's Party for many years that we got rid of that rule, so we are pleased that the limit of the proposal here is removed. Normally, the argument for preservation has been that it would provide the best conditions for the police to collect technical evidence and catch the perpetrator if you had this deadline. But I just don't think that people who may be very traumatized after a violent sexual assault are thinking of the 72-hour rule. And if they do, I don't think it's gonna help get people to report, not at all if it's been 72 hours. So there is simply no point in sticking to the rule. So we are very satisfied in many of these areas and we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152126	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152134	In the area of sexual abuse, including children, we have no reason to be proud. Too many cases have illustrated abuse, rape and other atrocities without or with too late intervention by the authorities. Often this has resulted in the perpetrator or municipality being deprived of both civil and criminal liability because of the limitation period, even though the municipality in question has slept well per hour. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this proposal has put a great many different things together under one umbrella. In general, it is necessary to emphasise that in future, sex crimes against children cannot become obsolete in criminal law. The victim who, for one reason or another, is only prepared to talk about the crime after many years cannot be faced with a cold refusal by the police. However, it is also important to emphasise that we live in a community governed by the law and that, regardless of whether the crime is only reported many years later, it must of course be possible to prove what was going on. The proposal here also regulates tort replacement, which increases significantly. Whether that is enough can always be discussed, but this is at least a big step forward. The proposal also means that the criminal himself will have to pay the compensation, but most of them will probably not be able to do so, and that is why the Compensation Board can now lay down the compensation so that the victim is sure to get it paid. And then we will abolish the rule of compulsory notification within 72 hours, as the prerequisite that has existed so far, in order to be able to obtain compensation from the public authorities. Summa summarum this proposal involves a series of quite obvious regulations on matters which the victim has experienced as unfair obstacles and which have felt to be an obstacle to fair treatment. On the left, we are on the side of the victim and we are happy to vote for this proposal. I should say hello to the Conservatives and say that they do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152353	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we turn to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Robinson's report. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152412	This bill is a bill that Enhedslisten supports. Much of what is in the bill is politics that we, the Enhedslisten, have been fighting for for years and years for things that now stand to be implemented. It is, of course, not least the abolition of the 72-hour rule in the victim compensation law that is being abolished in all cases of rape, incest and sexual abuse of children. It is a 72-hour rule that we have been opposed to for years, because it is extremely illogical with a deadline in these cases, for example. in relation to victims of rape, of 72 hours, which, for obvious reasons, is difficult to observe because of the state of shock and the trauma associated with a serious assault such as rape. So we are very pleased with that part of the bill, that is to say, that it is now becoming a reality after a multi-annual struggle to abolish the rampant illogical 72-hour rule in these areas. The same applies to limitation periods for claims for compensation or compensation against public authorities which have failed a child who has been subjected to abuse. The limitation periods will also be abolished. I also note that there is a tightening of the legislative proposal in relation to the original proposal put forward by the Minister for Justice, in which it was, after all, only the abolition of limitation periods for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. Now it's assault as such. We are very pleased with that. In the debates that have taken place, we have clearly stated the position of the Enhedslisten, also because there has been a majority in the Assembly who has clearly stated that the limitation period should not only be abolished for children who have been subjected to sexual abuse, but children who have been subjected to abuse in general and in which public authorities have failed to discharge their responsibilities towards children. It can, for example, be done. be children who have been subjected to violence or have been beaten or subjected to other degrading treatment in a situation where the public authorities should have prevented this. Then there will be a lower limit on compensation for torture. We support this and it is also a very good idea to carry out investigations into the administration's handling of cases of sexual abuse. The last part of the bill is about removing the limitation periods for the perpetrator's liability in cases of sexual abuse of children. This is a very difficult and complicated debate. On the whole, there are a large number of fundamental issues in removing the limitation period as such, which must be carefully considered. That is how I remember the discussions we had over in the Ministry of Justice, namely that here we are on the verge of what we normally consider to be, what to say, good legal policy. This is, of course, because we are dealing with a very special group in our society, namely children, and sexual abuse of children. Indeed, there are some critical consultation responses. Østre Landsret speaks critically, as do the Lawyers' Council and the National Association of Defence Attorneys, who consider it questionable to abolish the limitation periods, and they refer among other things to the Court of Justice. That the older the situation, the greater the risk of material wrongs, not least in cases of sexual abuse, where the most important evidence will often be the explanation of wrongdoing. The consultation parties also point out that the current rules already offer wide scope for dealing with very old infringements and that the rules in force ensure an appropriate balance between the particular considerations of wrongdoing and the need to take materially correct decisions. In any case, it is important that when this limitation period is abolished, it is not perceived as if you can wait to report a sexual assault. People who have been subjected to this kind of sexual assault must of course report it as soon as possible so that the position of the evidence in these cases is as strong as possible. So that gives rise to a large number of, what should we say, fundamental considerations. We also agree on the part of Enhedslisten that it is not unproblematic to do this, but we still think that there are things to do that too in the cases we have seen around. There have been attacks on children who have been in the custody of the Catholic Church around, and these are children who have later grown up and cannot take legal action because there has been a limitation period. This is an example of a type of case in which it can be said that this type of case could be raised today. So you can speak for and against. But we also support this part of the draft law on the part of the Enhedslisten, although it is also something that, what can be said, contains some fundamental considerations of legal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152935	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024152942	Thank you. The proposal here will abolish the limitation period in cases of sexual abuse against children. This applies both to criminal law in relation to the perpetrator and to compensation law in relation to public authorities. In addition, the proposal provides for the abolition of the 72-hour rule and an increase in the rates of reimbursement for this type of case. When, in most legal systems, a limitation period is imposed, it is primarily a matter of legal certainty for the protection of the accused. It is not fair to live forever in the fear of being prosecuted because of an accusation, and that is a good and fundamental principle. But this principle must always be balanced against the legal certainty of a victim. In many cases, it must be a reasonable expectation that the charge is raised within generally applicable limitation periods, but cases of sexual abuse against children have a very special character. A great many victims settle only much later in life with what has happened in childhood, and one cannot have a reasonable expectation for this type of victim that matters will be raised within a certain time frame. Therefore, consideration for the victim and the general sense of justice in this type of matter must weigh more heavily. In relation to the part dealing with liability, it is a very obvious problem that a municipality can make massive failures and then avoid responsibility with reference to limitation periods, which we among other things. Have seen in the case in Slagelse. The Liberal Alliance has long advocated this proposal and we very much welcome the fact that it has been put forward today. But let me also say very clearly here from the platform that we in the Liberal Alliance are also willing to go further. We also think it might be interesting to look at limitation periods when it comes to violence against children, because we will not accept that there are children who are exposed to neither sexual abuse nor violence. Today it is also the case that if you are subjected to systematic domestic violence, from 5 to 7 years of age, you must have reported it before 12 years of age, so as not to meet limitation periods. There may just as well be children who are subjected to domestic violence in the early years, who are unable to report it, who do not know that it should be reported, who do not realise that it is wrong until they are adults. So in the Liberal Alliance there is a clear message that let us also look at removing limitation periods when it comes to violence against children, and that must be the next step. But this is historic, it is a really, really important step to take for children who are subjected to sexual abuse. We're just not there yet. But this is a good first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153240	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Alternative, and that is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153248	Thank you very much. Today we are going to deal with L 31. The aim of the bill is to ease some of the barriers that sexually abused children face in their quest for justice and the location of responsibility. It acts among other things. on the abolition of the limitation period for the placing of criminal liability on the part of perpetrators of child abuse. The alternative is to welcome the proposal, namely that with L 31, among other things. will abolish the limitation periods for such infringements. The draft law contributes to the potential for more cases to be brought and to the conclusion of that chapter in their lives by several offended children. I do not question the fact that limitation periods are quite fundamental in a constitutional state. The limitation periods encourage proceedings before the evidence is affected by the course of time. As the rules have been set up today, the limitation period depends on the crime in question, but sexual abuse of children is one of the most abominable crimes an adult can commit to a child. The attack may have long-lasting and traumatizing consequences for the child, and a responsibility should and must be placed. Of course, as all the rapporteurs have said before me, it often takes a long time for the children who have experienced sexual abuse to be responsible for the actions they have been subjected to. For the alternative, it is important to focus on helping children and young people, but also not to compromise the legal certainty of the accused. Often cases of sexual abuse of children are marked by lack of evidence other than testimony from the child and the adult. Here the temporal aspect plays an important role, because the older the conditions involved, the greater the risk of wrong decisions. That is why it is important for the alternative to balance these two considerations: the consideration of the accused and the consideration of the child, which we believe is very much the case. Another element of the draft law is the abolition of limitation periods for claims for compensation and compensation for administrative authorities, including municipalities, which do not comply with their obligation to supervise children placed in care. In particular, this point of the bill has been the subject of public debate in connection with the acquiescence of the municipality of Esbjerg in a case of failure in connection with the sexual abuse of three siblings. The abolition of limitation periods for claims for compensation and compensation for administrative authorities ensures that children and young people can hold municipalities and other administrative authorities responsible for their lack of supervision. In this context, it should be mentioned that the Children's Conditions from 2013 to 2016 ran a project that supported children in claims cases. The project helped children and young people up to 30 years of age who had been subjected to abuse or serious neglect of care to bring claims against public authorities for failure to comply with statutory obligations to the child. Children's Conditions conclude in their evaluation of the project that the rules on limitation may constitute a barrier for children who have been subjected to abuse in connection with the construction of a claim for damages, inter alia: because the child may first be ready to take legal action against the public as an adult, and because matters are complicated and can take a long time to settle. In conclusion, we do not think it is right to distinguish between attempts at rape and forced rape when fixing the level of compensation. The psychic consequences of attempted rape can be as serious as rape, without reducing what a violent rape means. We would like this discrimination to be abolished and, of course, we will be very pleased to vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153724	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153732	Mrs Zenia Stampe is the rapporteur on the bill here, but in her absence I shall read the Radical Left's rapporteur's speech up to L 31. Sexual abuse of children is one of the most serious crimes in our society. Unfortunately, many abuses are only discovered so late that it is no longer possible to prosecute the perpetrator and claim compensation from a public authority which has failed. This bill is trying to remedy this by abolishing the limitation period for the perpetrator's criminal liability in cases of sexual abuse of children. The proposal also provides for the abolition of limitation periods for claims for compensation and compensation by public authorities which have failed to fulfil their obligations to children. The draft law also proposes an increase in the level of compensation in cases of sexual abuse of children as well as cases of sexual abuse in general and rape. Finally, the proposal provides for the 72-hour period for police reporting to be observed by a victim in order to apply for compensation for victims of rape, victims of incest and children who have been sexually abused. The Radical Left very much welcomes the lifting of the limitation period, as the victims of this type of crime are in such an extremely vulnerable situation that it is unreasonable to expect them to approach the police immediately. The Radical Left supports the entire bill, which we think is extremely sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153920	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024153928	There are individual crimes which are so serious that a limitation period does not make sense. The Children's Council and the Children's Conditions support the proposal, but also points out that it can be difficult to lift the burden of proof and that, therefore, you can disappoint victims who had hoped to get the criminal. However, these objections are not enough to prevent us in the SF from assessing the bill as a strengthening of the victims. Sexual abuse of children is characterised by so many complex problems that it makes sense to cancel the deadline. Also the other changes about rape see SF as a protection for the victims. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154022	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154030	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive contributions we have heard here today. I am very pleased that there is support for this very important bill, which aims to ensure greater justice for victims of sexual abuse, especially for children who have been subjected to these terrible crimes. Sexual abuse of children is one of the worst crimes a human being can commit, and the abuse puts deep marks in the child's future life, and we therefore have a duty to ensure that the victims of these abuses experience a greater degree of justice. With the legislative proposal, we propose a wide range of initiatives, including: ensure better and fairer access to justice for victims. Firstly, we propose the abolition of limitation periods for the perpetrator's liability in cases of sexual abuse against children. A child often, as a result of the shame and guilt associated with sexual abuse, will find it difficult to tell others about the abuse before the child has grown up. With the bill, we ensure that the perpetrator of a sexual assault against a child can always be held accountable for his actions. The child is thus given the opportunity to report the perpetrator at a time when the child has become ready to do away with it, for example. when the child has grown up, although it is of course always best to report it as soon as possible. Secondly, we propose the abolition of limitation periods, which means that children who have not only suffered abuse but have also suffered a failure by a public authority cannot claim compensation against the authority. Children who have been subjected to abuse are vulnerable, and that is why we must ensure that the authorities are kept up of their duty to look after those children. With the bill, we ensure that at any time the child will be able to bring an action for damages against, for example, a municipality that has failed when the child was subjected to an attack. Thirdly, we propose the abolition of the so-called 72-hour rule for cases of rape, incest and sexual abuse against children. As the rules are today, a victim of a crime wishing to apply for victim compensation must, as a starting point, have reported the crime to the police within 72 hours of the crime taking place. However, cases of rape, incest and sexual abuse against children are characterised by the fact that they are often late in coming to the police's knowledge, which may mean that victims are prevented from receiving victim compensation, and that is why we propose that the 72-hour notification period be lifted in these cases. Last but not least, the draft law provides for a number of increases in the rates of reimbursement, such as: victims of sexual abuse may be entitled to, and although no compensation can eliminate sexual abuse, a more reasonable allowance may give the victim an experience of greater justice. The Government considers that the current levels of tort reimbursement in e.g. cases of sexual abuse of children are too low, which is why we are proposing to increase levels for the first time in many years. With the proposal we increase by about a third in all cases of sexual abuse, a further increase of about a third in cases of enforced rape and a minimum limit of DKK 150,000. in cases of serious cases of sexual abuse of children. With those comments, I would like once again to thank the rapporteurs very much for the positive reception of the draft law and look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available for replies during committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154421	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154424	Thank you. In many ways, this is a very good suggestion. But one of the things we think could make this proposal better is the removal of limitation periods with retroactive effect. So I would really like to hear the Minister's explanation of why it is not the government's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154447	In other words, it is not possible to abolish the limitation periods of criminal law with retroactive effect. That would simply be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the draft law simply lays down that criminal liability, which is not obsolete under the current rules, will be covered by the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154507	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154526	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154541	The draft law here results in a adoption from the spring, such as: We in the Social Democratic Party were pennipers on. The purpose of the draft law is to give the courts a greater discretion to assess whether, in specific criminal proceedings, it is reasonable for persons who, as a result of their psychic state, are subject to other measures rather than ordinary penalties to pay the costs of the proceedings. This means, in concrete terms, that Paragraph 1008 of the Code of Procedure. 4, second point on the limitation of the liability of the sentenced person for the costs of proceedings is changed so that, where appropriate, the liability of the persons I mentioned earlier can be limited to those who, as a result of their psychic state, are subject to other measures rather than the ordinary penalty. We think it is reasonable that people who are far out on the ropes, to put it bluntly, and perhaps do not know what they are doing when they commit the offence, and thus cannot be sentenced to ordinary punishment, are not necessarily charged with the costs either. So the judge has the opportunity to say: this is a case in which the person is not in any way in his right mind and cannot therefore be charged the financial costs. It is, of course, a proposal that we can support, as there are these cases in which it makes no sense to impose large financial bills on a convicted measure. So there is support from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154729	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154738	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, a consequence of proposals for adoption No. V 82 to a debate on question F 26 from the last session, where a broad circle of parties, including the Danish People's Party, agreed that action should be taken to ensure that citizens who are sentenced to measures other than prison sentences because of their mental state should not subsequently be automatically forced to pay the costs. After all, the debate on this subject took off seriously after the Dagbladet Information reported last year that the Court of Glostrup concluded that a demented woman convicted of assaulting a home helper was too ill to be punished but not too ill to pay for the costs. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we think that there was a clear bias when we see a case like that from Glostrup, and that therefore there was a need to change the rules. In fact, I do not think we can be familiar with the fact that we are saying today to people who may be very ill, perhaps with severe dementia, that we regard them as so ill that we cannot punish them, but we want their money anyway. These are people who are no longer in their right mind. That is why it is good that the rules are now being changed. The comments also show that, at the Minister's discretion, there will be a limited number of cases and that in many of those cases there will also be a situation where the ability to pay will be limited in advance and there will therefore not be such major economic consequences of the proposal. One of the positive aspects is that the emphasis is on the fact that in future it will also be a starting point for the convicted person to pay for the costs of the trial, and I also interpret it as meaning that there will be only a few cases where the judges saw in the specific cases, for example. the case of the demented lady from last year will be able to say that exactly in this type of case you will not be asking for money, and I think that is sensible. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154941	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024154955	It is clear from the Code of Procedure that, if a criminal case is brought, the necessary costs must be borne. In practice, we are talking here about defence fees and the costs of any technical investigations. However, situations have arisen where it may be unreasonable for the party concerned to bear the necessary costs. If you are a person covered by Article 16 or Article 69 of the Criminal Code, i.e.: a person who is erratic because of mental illness, mental impairment, poor mental development, etc., is convicted of his or her actions, but he or she is not punished in the traditional sense. One is likely to be sentenced to a measure of some kind, perhaps hospitalization in a psychiatric hospital or the like. Against this background, it may seem misleading in many cases that the person concerned, who cannot be punished, may nevertheless be endowed with a fine-like expense in the form of legal costs. With this proposal, we are giving the courts a greater discretion as to whether it is reasonable that, for example, a mentally handicapped person who cannot be punished should nevertheless have to pay full legal costs. We in the Left think this is sensible. We provide the courts with an instrument to ease the cost responsibility of the sentenced person. The Left supports this proposal and I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155128	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155147	The purpose of this bill is, of course, to give the courts a greater discretion to assess whether, in a specific criminal proceedings, it is reasonable for a person who, as a result of his mental state, is subject to other measures rather than ordinary penalties, also to pay the costs of the proceedings. It is a proposal that we can support, and so I have nothing to add in relation to the things other rapporteurs have been in the Chair to say. However, I would just like to make a supplementary reference to a couple of consultation responses. The first is from the Lawyers' Council, which states that current practice in relation to legal costs has negative consequences, especially for vulnerable groups, for example. young people, and the Lawyers' Council calls for a wider circle of sentenced persons to be included in the reduction in the cost of the case, which is proposed by the bill here. The National Defence Attorney's Association states in their hearing answer that in comparison with other groups, especially young people under the age of 18, there could be good reason to allow the courts to limit the liability of the sentenced persons for the costs of proceedings, and the National Defence Attorney's Association therefore calls for the scheme to be evaluated after a given period of time. I just want to say that we support the bill, but I think it would be a good idea to take our position at least that we are looking more generally at how legal costs can be a burden for people who are convicted in relation to taking a debt with them when you, for example, take it with you. has served his sentence and that therefore also needs to be looked at the possibility of how under certain conditions, for example. That there has been a certain amount of time since you have not committed crime, for example. a debt cancellation which makes it easier to enter as a good and law-abiding citizen after the end of punishment. This is a discussion which I think we should take, but which does not change the fact that we support this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155401	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155410	Thank you. This bill gives the courts a greater discretion to assess whether, in a specific criminal proceedings, it is reasonable that a person who, due to his mental condition, is not subject to a general penalty should nevertheless be ordered to pay the costs. It is an absolutely fundamental principle of our rule of law that we are obliged, as a guilty party, to reimburse the public for the costs involved in the proceedings, and that is a good principle. This bill then deals with cases in which, as a result of its psychic state, it is sentenced to other measures rather than ordinary punishment. I believe that it is both meaningful and reasonable to allow the courts to make an estimate that can exempt these people from the costs of the case and, on that basis, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155510	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Sandbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155518	Thank you very much. The alternative can also agree with everything that has been said by the previous rapporteurs. But we had, like Mr. Rune Lund also liked to see that the bill included a larger circle of people. We are thinking in particular of young people under the age of 18 who are unable to pay legal costs and other costs in connection with legal proceedings. We risk debting young offenders, which will affect them many years into the future. The alternative is unconditional support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155554	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg. I do not see him at all, so we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155617	The citizens' prerequisites for mastering life are so different. Some offences are committed by people who are unable to assess what they are doing and the consequences of their own actions. If, because of dementia or other mental challenges, citizens cannot be punished on an equal footing with other citizens, they should not, of course, be stuck on a bill for acts that they could not control. Against this background, the SF can support the bill. I would like to add, however, that the draft law is very limited, because there are major problems with the legal costs of other vulnerable groups, which are also pointed out in several of the hearings. There is a need for a much broader study of legal aid and the free process, also wider than the investigation under way in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155722	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then the Radical Left rapporteur has arrived, so we are giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155734	I am sorry to the President, but we only got eight seats, so many things need to be taken care of at the same time. But thank you for letting me get on here in the end. It is usually Mrs Zenia Stampe who is the rapporteur in the field of justice that I apologise for being out of breath, but I had to run again; you get in good form of being a member of the Folketing, and that is good enough; or you don't do it, but it was at least a good run but I have to give the rapporteur's speech in her absence. The purpose of the draft law is to give the courts greater discretion to assess whether mentally ill persons subject to other measures are to be ordered to pay the costs. The proposal arises from a question debate here in the Folketing and a joint proposal for adoption on mental illness in the judicial system. The Radical Left considers the proposal both sympathetic and sensible and calls for a more general reform of the system for the payment of legal costs to be considered. It may be considered whether other groups, for example young people, should be covered by the possibility of being exempted from legal costs or whether to make the payment of legal costs more dependent on the income of the convicted person. However, this proposal is a good first step on the road and the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155911	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024155921	Thank you. I don't know if I can sign it fully, but it's probably good for some people. Thank you again for the positive statements made by the rapporteurs. The draft law is, of course, a follow-up, as has also been mentioned, to proposals for adoption No. V 82 adopted by Parliament at the end of April. All parties voted in favour of the proposal for adoption except the Enhedslisten, which voted blankly, and I am pleased that, having seen the proposal, it has been decided to vote in favour today. It is a fundamental principle that the convicted person must pay the costs of the proceedings in criminal proceedings. Today, this is also true of what is termed mentally deviant persons who are free from punishment because of incalculability at the time of the crime, but such as: are sentenced for treatment or placement in an institution. However, it would be reasonable to give the courts an opportunity to waive the obligation to pay the costs of the proceedings for those persons who have committed and are convicted of crime but who do not receive a general penalty, for example. a court order for treatment. The draft law therefore provides that the courts may, in a concrete judgment, limit the cost liability of a convicted person who, as a result of his psychic condition, is subject to other measures instead of general punishment, where otherwise the responsibility would be in a manifest disproportionate to the guilt and conditions of the sentenced person. With these comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and, of course, I am available in the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160100	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160124	The negotiations have been opened, and this is not Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Is there another rapporteur from the party who would like to speak? There is now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160147	In the absence of the original rapporteur, I can say that we in the Socialist Group support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160155	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Dorthe Ullemose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160208	Thank you. We need to deal with a bill on package travel and complex travel arrangements. Everyone knows the famous quote from Hans Christian Andersen •To travel is to live, but in order for us to live safely and well, we as travellers must experience to be protected by appropriate and transparent legislation. Much has happened in the travel market since 1993, when the current package law was implemented. The implementation of the Package Travel Directive is largely a continuation of the current law on package travel, but in the light of technological developments, the European Parliament and the Council have found the opportunity to extend the concept of travel not only to package travel but also to so-called composite travel arrangements. A number of consultation responses have just mentioned this. It is clear that the package travel law needed a review, not least after the sharp increase in sales of travel online. The amendment of the law on package travel is mostly about consumer protection, but it is also about creating a level playing field in all Member States, when more and more travel is being traded online and across borders. In general, the Danish People's Party is very pleased with the draft, which makes up for some of the existing rules that have created unequal conditions of competition for Danish travel providers in relation to their European and international competitors. We are also pleased that the draft law provides for the same level of consumer protection among the Member States. So clear rules, the same set of rules, more consumer protection and better conditions of competition in the Member States, we in the Danish People's Party are very good. I also note that the consultation parties have generally expressed support for the bill, and therefore the Danish People's Party can support L 33.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160411	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160418	After all, this is a so-called total harmonisation directive that we are implementing. In other words, there is no room for improvement, if one wishes to do so along the way, of consumer protection in relation to package travel and mixed travel arrangements, as it is now called. I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is so indulging in this proposal, as it is a very good expression of the fact that the European Union is totally committed to legislation in this area. And since this is an important area for people, as the rapporteur himself said, precisely about consumer protection, I do not quite understand that the Danish People's Party is so absolutely in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160515	If you are going to give a special rule for Denmark, that applies also to other EU countries. I think that there is more consumer protection in that we have common rules. But I think that is an important consideration, and I have taken note of it too, and I think we should talk about it when we deal with the proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160534	That is absolutely right. I do not, in fact, disagree with the fact that common rules can be a good thing. But it's just that with this directive and the implementation of it, it will cut itself off from improving legislation if we had to go out to do so at some point. The rapporteur himself has referred to, for example: the technological developments in the whole area, which we probably do not know the extent of either. Something could easily arise there. But that's where we cut ourselves off from that opportunity. At least we have to go through the big, heavy EU system to change it, and I believe that neither the Danish People's Party nor the Enhedslisten believe very much that it is just going through the big, heavy EU system to change some legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160621	I agree with the questioner that it could be a problem if too much alignment is applied. But I think we should take it when we come to committee. I very much agree with the comments made by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in line is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160654	Thank you. With this proposal, we are implementing the Package Travel Directive. It must be implemented in Danish law by 1 January 2018, and the purpose of this directive is to harmonise the regulation of agreements between travellers and traders so that a higher level of consumer protection is achieved across Europe's borders. We support that in the Left. In view of the fact that the Package Travel Directive is to be implemented, a new main law on package travel is proposed, and a number of changes need to be made to the current law. As the previous rapporteur mentioned, the key changes are the extension of the concept of package travel and the introduction of a new type of travel, namely the complex travel arrangements. This law improves consumer protection. Several journeys fall under the main law on package travel, and providers of complex travel arrangements must comply with obligations to their customers. The bill also creates a commitment to more travel event providers than before. Harmonization of the internal market for the purchase and sale of travel is necessary under the auspices of the European Union. The directive will ensure that the law on package travel stays up to date throughout the EU and that the consumer is protected in a market that may sometimes appear opaque and confusing. That is why the Left supports this proposal, and I have promised to say from the Conservative People's Party that they will also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160832	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160838	It is on the issue of the new concept introduced here, which the rapporteur also mentions, that is to say, those who put together travel arrangements. I have to admit that after reading the bill, and I have also looked into the directive, I find it very, very difficult to understand how it will ever be understandable to ordinary travellers, that is to say ordinary consumers. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a little strange to introduce a new concept of mixed travel arrangements, but, at the same time, to exclude them immediately in the legislative proposal from consumer protection, which is, after all, taking place around package travel?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160925	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160930	That was a very clear answer. It then gave rise to a question. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024160934	Then, of course, I would like to ask the following question: why does the rapporteur not think so? After all, it is a fact that, in the context of the combined travel arrangements, the traveller is, in practice, only covered by the bankruptcy insurance that we also dealt with in a previous legislative proposal, namely L 5, last week. That is what is left for travellers, that is to say for consumers who take part in a so-called complex travel event. In the view of the Left, is it really a satisfactory consumer protection for people who are trying to put together their own journey?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161012	Well, I have to admit, I didn't quite understand your question. But if I am to understand whether this is for the benefit of consumers or if it is a deterioration for consumers, we in the Left clearly see this as an improvement in consumer protection, and that is why we are very, very positive about this proposal. It is going to expand the concept of travel, and it is going to expand the circle of providers of travel today, and I see this as a clear consumer protection regardless of how you turn it and how you turn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161042	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next in line to be on the platform is sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161057	Thank you. With the bill here, we are implementing the EU directive on package travel and mixed travel arrangements in Danish law. And, contrary to the previous package travel directive, this is a so-called total harmonisation directive, which does not allow Member States national systems which provide better protection for the citizens of the country than the directive envisages if that is what they would have liked along the way. It's completely inedible for the Enhedslisten. Why should we in Denmark be prevented from ensuring better consumer protection in the field of package travel? The Enhedslisten thinks that common rules on consumer protection are fine, but it must be a national right to make the rules better if we think so. And a certain gentleman takes me to that, I think, if the directive does not actually open the door to Member States to introduce national legislation in a number of areas which can actually improve consumer protection. That is, for example, the case. the question of the right of withdrawal, such as the question of the right of withdrawal. know it from SAS when tickets are purchased via the Internet. It would therefore be appropriate to use the opening of the directive in order to introduce a right of withdrawal in the case of distance selling, as the Consumers' Council also points out. This is a good example of the fact that we do not use that right in the legislative proposal in question. I would say that it is quite interesting at all what the Consumer Council Think writes in their hearing response. After all, this is a matter of consumer protection: providing travellers with some transparent information about the journey they are about to buy, and some rights in the event that the journey does not go as it should, in one way or another. An obvious measure would, of course, be, as also the Consumer Council Think of it in their hearing answer on page 3, that the trader should state before the conclusion of the agreement whether the contract is a package trip, a composite travel arrangement or neither. In view of the fact that complex travel arrangements are not covered by the rights of the traveller that apply to package travel and are in fact only covered by bankruptcy protection, as I referred to, according to Bill L 5, which we dealt with last week, and you can see that in section 35 of the bill, and given that it is virtually impossible for the traveller to see through whether he has a package trip or a composite travel arrangement or just different travel services, even if he has bought one and the same place, it is absolutely crucial that the tour operator or the intermediary should indicate what kind of travel arrangement the customer now has and what rights the customer has. If the tour operator can find out for himself, because I think it can be really difficult. The criteria used to define a complex travel arrangement are hard to see through. There is a time limit of 24 hours for the payment of the next travel service; there is the question of paying in two stages instead of one, and this changes the nature of the journey from package to complex travel arrangements; whether there is a targeted process on a tour operator's website to sell another service in connection with the first travel service, or whether it is merely a general advertisement for e.g. a hotel, probably as a result of the ubiquitous cookies; whether the tour operator of the first-bought service could e.g. be transport to the destination • have underlying agreements with the organizers who pop up on the website. All these issues are, in my opinion, completely opaque and not clarified in the legislative proposal. And frankly, I don't think you have a chance as a customer to figure out what's going on. However, it can be said that for the organisers of the various services, it can be an incentive to entice travellers to buy a complex travel arrangement, where consumer protection in practice only extends to bankruptcy insurance. And that is where we will probably try on the part of the Enhedslisten to propose amendments to the bill. The Consumer Council Think is also right with some of the definitions that follow from the bill. I have to run them through quickly here. There is the whole distinction between package travel and complex travel arrangements and separate travel services, which affect the 24-hour time limit; the issue of advertising on the tour operator's website, etc.; there is a new possibility for the tour operator to change the content of the journey if reference can be made to so-called unimportant characteristics. I think we also need to clarify what is meant by that. There is the question of the minimum number of travellers required for a journey to be completed or cancelled; there is the question in relation to section 28, where it is important to ascertain what third party is, in addition to the example of the comments on repairs to equipment at an airport which can prevent an aircraft from taking off. And then there is also the whole question of what is meant by "significant disadvantage" and "lost holiday pleasure." These are some of the concepts that are also included in the draft law. The conclusion is that EL is opposed to this bill. We are against it both for reasons of principle and because we do not believe that consumer protection in the legislative proposal and in the directive is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161632	Thank you. I would actually like to sign for a rather entertaining speech by the rapporteur, who also illustrates that we sometimes live at a time when we may also make things unnecessarily complicated. I kind of agree with that point. But I really want to ask you something, and it is out of curiosity, because the rapporteur represents a party which believes that Denmark should resign from the European Union, and in his rapporteur's speech he spoke a lot about consumer protection and how this really puts the consumer. My question to Enhedslisten's rapporteur is: if we were living in a world without the European Union and a Danish citizen bought a journey in Germany or in Sweden or another EU country, how would Enhedslisten really ensure consumer protection for that citizen? Or does Enhedslisten dream of a time when you only shop in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161721	In any case, in the situation in question, we would call on them to do so, because at least we would know what consumer protection is. In this situation, it could be that consumer protection in Germany or other countries is also good, and people really have to decide for themselves what they want there. I have no problem with people acting in Germany if they can figure out what the German rules are in this area. This does not change the question of whether we ultimately want to withdraw Denmark from the European Union. The consumer protection rules that I am concerned with are, of course, those that exist in Denmark if you buy a trip in Denmark or from a Danish tour operator.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161806	In other words, the rapporteur really must agree with me that, with the implementation of this directive, it puts the Danish citizens, who, despite the rapporteur's request, are still acting in Germany or France or Poland or elsewhere, better than if they followed the recommendation of the Enhedslisten and reported Denmark out of the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161834	No, not in that case. But, of course, it is better for the traveller if the German rules are so much lower than the Danish ones or are so much worse at this stage than the rules that are being tried to implement. That is clear, and I do not think there is such a strange or awkward thing in it, so that at the same time we do not want to buy the whole EU system. For at least in some EU countries there are 28 of them yet, 27 in some years' time there are very many different rules for consumer protection. And I don't see that there are the big problems in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161906	We thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024161918	Thank you. The legislative proposal under consideration here is part of the EU's new package travel directive, which aims to harmonise certain aspects of Member States' regulation of agreements between travellers and traders in relation to package travel. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome actions that promote the functioning of the internal market, and this is what this bill and this directive are doing. We know that there has been some development in European travel patterns and habits since the entry into force of the package travel law in force in 1993. For example, an increasing proportion of travelers today even compose their travel via the Internet. I think we are many people who know that and that is why it has been meaningful to look at the directive in order to keep up with technological developments, even though the draft law is to a large extent merely a continuation of existing law. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162015	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162024	Thank you very much. This bill, according to the Justice Department, is supposed to mark... no hoof, I've come to take the wrong rapporteur's speech. I got to talk about burglary, and I was supposed to talk about travel. I don't know if we can trade a little, so I'm gonna make the next speech where I get the right speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162045	We can do that, we are very flexible. Ulla Sandbæk It's very nice, so I'll go down and get it). If sir... Andreas Steenberg has got his real manuscript with him, he can have the floor now. Here you go. Ulla Sandbæ k (Everything): Now I got it). Does that mean that you are now asking if you can trade back? Ulla Sandbæk Yes). Here you go. Now it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162108	They say trade, trade merchant, never trade again, but thank you for my manuscript; now I got it to L 33. The aim of the draft law is to implement the EU directive on package travel and mixed travel arrangements. As has already been mentioned, the legislative proposal is a harmonisation of EU legislation in this area. Harmonisation of legislation across countries is, of course, helping to ensure better protection for citizens and, in addition, more journeys are being covered by the legislation. The need for new legislation in this area has been much needed. The current legislation is obsolete. This is due to technological developments in the travel market since the adoption of the current travel package legislation from 1993. On the whole, the draft law is a continuation of existing law. Compared with the package travel law in force, there is an extension of the package travel concept, which in concrete terms means that more travel and thus consumers are covered by the legislation, which ultimately means better protection, and the concept of composite journeys is introduced. However, there are some points of interest in the draft law which I would like to draw your attention to. In some areas, the Directive allows Member States to maintain or introduce rules which derogate from the Directive in the field governed by the Directive. Unfortunately, these options are not proposed by the government. We would have liked to have seen this differently in the alternative. The Consumer Council Think in their consultation response calls for the use of access to ensure even better consumer protection for Danish consumers. The alternative shares that ambition, and that is why we would like the government to take advantage of the maneuvering possibilities offered by the directive. Another point of attention is the unclear and complicated definitions of the draft law, which will be very difficult to communicate to consumers. On the one hand, it is about when and how consumers are covered in different types of travel, and on the other it is about the concept of complex travel arrangements, which is a new word in Danish law. The regulation should be simplified and made clearer for the benefit of consumers and businesses. It should be clear when an agreement is a package trip, a complex journey, etc. With these proposals for improvements, the alternative to the draft law is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162352	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur of the Alternative. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162404	In the Radical Left, we do not think that there are many who think that if you as a consumer book a flight on a website with stops along the way or a plane ticket along with the rental of a car or with hotel rentals, you get into where that website belongs. Is it in Denmark or Germany or in Sweden? And that does, of course, mean that if something happens, for example. a company going bankrupt in the middle of your trip or before leaving, you cannot be sure whether you have any consumer protection in relation to getting home from the destination, in relation to getting another hotel, for example, or whether you can get your money back if you have not been able to stop the journey yet. That is why it is a good idea for the European Union to try to establish common rules for what is called package travel, so that, regardless of which website you have booked a package trip, there is some consumer protection. The law here implements the directives that have been made in the European Union and, as we understand it, it does not detract from the legal status of Danish citizens in relation to the legislation we currently have in Denmark. On the other hand, of course, all other countries in Europe are supposed to introduce this directive, and so the rules must also apply to the websites of the package travel providers who are present in countries other than Denmark, so that Danish consumers will be able to be better off when they buy package travel when all countries in Europe have implemented this bill. That is why we support the draft law, and we are pleased that the European Union is also showing why it is a good idea to work together between countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162555	There is one question, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162559	So the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it does not undermine consumer protection, as we know it, and as it does in the old directive and in the old package travel law. But this directive, unlike the old directive, deprives us of the right to improve consumer protection if we could do so along the way, if there is any situation, technological development, or whatever. Mr. Andreas Steenberg, is it not a problem that we are being cut off from the possibility of suddenly being able to improve in relation to others? Because I also think that common rules are good, and I also think that it is good if there are countries in Europe, and that is certainly there, that I could at least imagine it having nothing similar to consumer protection in this area that we can raise them up to the level. That's really nice. But why should we cut ourselves off from going further?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162654	But we're not cutting ourselves off from that. We have just chosen that if we want to improve consumer protection here, and that can certainly be a good idea, we will do so together, in other words, all the countries of Europe at the same time. So if we in Denmark want to increase consumer protection at some point, we will do so in cooperation with other countries, and I think that has much more effect than if we do it alone. How will the Ministry of Justice check whether a website based in Poland complies with Danish legislation? But if it is pan-European legislation, you can call Poland and say: listen, the company you have offers package travel which is contrary to the legislation we have jointly made in Europe. So this I think gives Denmark greater opportunities to come after some of the companies that we cannot come after today, because the individual countries are now actually obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162753	Yeah, and no trouble in it. I also think it is very good if we in Poland live up to these common rules that we are creating here, and as Denmark, we can say, precisely by being a pioneer country, has put the line very much in place. And it's like what we cut ourselves off from if we can't move forward. I really think that it is such a rather strange system at all that we cannot be allowed to improve some things if we think it should apply to Danish consumers. Well, sir. Andreas Steenberg is quite right to point out that if we are to improve it, we must do so in the European Union. And there it is, I mean we all know that it is a big and heavy system to get through something and change something, and there are so many different interests, including in this area. Many times, in practice, it is almost impossible, or something that looks like impossible, to change the rules once they have been laid down, and that is what I think is unfortunate. Denmark could perhaps instead become a role model by moving forward. I have mentioned the example of the right of withdrawal, as we know from SAS when it comes to buying tickets on the Internet. This is precisely aimed at the purchase of cross-border travel on the Internet.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024162905	For the sake of good order, I'll just say that I don't think that Mr. Henning Hyllested or I know whether some companies in Poland do not comply with the legislation. It was a purely thought example from both of us, I think. This is, of course, a very interesting EU political debate, because when we are part of a community called the European Union, where a lot of countries are involved, it increases, in my view, our ability to influence things, because as a country and we as citizens of Europe, we can help shape legislation in a much larger area than just our own small Denmark. It is clear that sometimes we can also be voted down. It's the tradeoff that is when you're in a community, and I think Enhedslisten must know all about that. I just think it's a good idea when the purchase of package tours has just been globalised.If you go in and look at many of the places where you can buy package tours, you can see that it's not Danish companies that we together with the other countries can help that we Danes can have some influence on what rules apply. That is why I believe that it increases our ability to protect consumers and not the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163009	Then there is one question from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163017	But this is, of course, about whether it should, so to speak, be maximum legislation or minimum legislation that is being made. When, for example, The comments state that the Member States must not make less demands in these areas. We feel very well about this from the Enhedslisten side. Because it is true that we will have common minimum standards in this area, and that is so good, just as it is in all sorts of other areas. However, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe that it is extremely important when legislation is made, including EU legislation, that it should be minimum legislation that allows individual countries the right to take the lead and introduce better standards than those that apply in the European Union. It is, of course, the discussion that is important, even when we have seen that the right to take the lead can help to show a path one can take and create some inspiration and some precedent or in other ways push for a development that can be difficult to push if it is the case that there is a ceiling on what rights one, for example, has. may give consumers. This is, of course, the discussion that we on the part of Enhedslisten think is very important in relation to the discussion on how we challenge and shape the rules of the internal market.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163135	But Denmark can easily push development if you want to. Then you can take up a legislative amendment or a directive amendment in the EU, just as you can take up a proposal here in the Folketing. I think it is important for rules to apply that other countries should be obliged to comply with them. If we make some rules or a law here in Denmark that should apply to a company in Germany, Spain, or where it can now be in Europe, then I think it is important for that law to be respected and for it to actually have an effect in relation to what we all want, namely to protect consumers that we have made it together with the other countries. Therefore, I think that if you want to take the lead, it is a good idea to sit down with the other countries and say: should we not? Because if the other countries are not obliged to ensure that companies in other countries comply with the law, then I do not think it goes very far. I do not believe that the Danish Ministry of Justice can ensure that a company in another country complies with a law we have made. But, I think, they can certainly make them comply with a law that the country itself has helped to make in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163241	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163243	It is not everything that comes from the European Union that is total harmonisation, where individual countries do not have some room for manoeuvre or have some room for local adaptation or to take the lead. But here we are dealing with a legislative proposal which, like that of restricting the Member States, including Denmark, to be able to take the lead and introduce better standards than those that apply in the European Union. After all, the European Union is also a battleground. We also believe this on the part of the Enhedslisten, although we have some fundamental other visions of how we believe that European cooperation should be structured, in other words, more democratic, more intergovernmental. However, if you want to use the battleground, it is important that individual countries have an opportunity to take the lead and push on developments where progress can be made. And there is total harmonisation, with maximum legislation for how far one must go, of course, a problem in terms of taking that fight within the EU system. The rapporteur must be able to recognise that if we have the right to take the lead, it will give us better opportunities to fight a political battle at international level in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163344	But I think the crucial thing here is that Denmark does not want to have any rules other than those that lie there. After all, it is our rules that are now being introduced throughout Europe. If there was anything concrete in which we said that we would like to have some special rules in relation to the rest of Europe, then perhaps I could understand the view of the Enhedslisten. But here we have no desire to have other rules. So what's the problem? Now I know that Mr. Rune Lund can't speak again, but I don't see the big problem. Because as a country, we do not have an interest in taking the lead. So I don't see that this is a big problem. We can, of course, if we think of something we want to change, take it up and change it. After all, it has succeeded, among other things. Denmark to make our rules become the rules of all EU countries. I guess we can also succeed in changing them if we ever want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163431	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's SF's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163439	The purchase of travel has changed significantly in recent years. Now people buy travel, regardless of where they are physically located. In relation to package travel, we need more clear rules, both in terms of competition between providers and in terms of better protection for citizens. I believe that the European Union must be judged in concrete terms, and it must be said that international agreements are good for travelling. Therefore, the SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163523	There was just one question from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163528	Sir. Karsten Hønge is fast on the platform from time to time, so you have to be up top here. After all, I think it is problematic in relation to this legislation and the directive that exactly the complex travel arrangements, which can be said to be enlargement here, are not covered by the same consumer protection as package travel. According to the previous discussion, me and Mr. Rune Lund just had with Mr. Andreas Steenberg, in our opinion, it is a problem that we have not managed to achieve the same consumer protection as we have on package travel, where Denmark may well have put the line. But it has not succeeded in transferring it to the complex travel arrangements. What is left of the complex travel arrangements is, in fact, merely the guarantee of bankruptcy, and that is, moreover, under a completely different law, namely the L 5, which we were dealing with 14 days ago. I'd like to know if Mr. Karsten Hønge does not find it problematic, that is to say that it has not actually succeeded in obtaining the same consumer protection as we have on package travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163641	Well, it's always too bad when we don't make it all the way around, and I can understand that. Henning Hyllested, that the vexation is also that the EU is not being given the opportunity to spread even more. I can share that annoyance if that's how I'm supposed to understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163655	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163657	However, exactly in relation to the previous discussion, the problem with this directive is that we are now in a situation where, in our opinion, we have not secured proper consumer protection when people have a complex travel event, and we do not have the opportunity to change that. Yes, as has been pointed out, we can go through the large-scale EU system and we can try to get all the other 28 or 27 countries to change it and extend consumer protection to the complex travel arrangements. But it's incredibly heavy. And in the meantime, consumers, including Danish consumers, Danish travellers, have no real consumer protection when they put together their own travel arrangements, except that they are covered by bankruptcy or insolvency.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163744	Yes, but I didn't get it that way, sir. Henning Hyllested believes that consumers have been disadvantaged. This law doesn't put you at a disadvantage. One might say that one would have liked to have gone further, but consumers are not in a worse position. On the other hand, you are better off in some other areas. Because the point is that people today buy travel, completely independent of where they are physically. Nor can I quite follow that concern, as Mr. Henning Hyllested has, in relation to the fact that it is not possible to change things in the European Union at all. I very often hear from the Enhedslisten that things are constantly being changed in the European Union and that the European Union is constantly spreading and is constantly making new proposals. So the problem is not that things cannot be changed in the European Union. Often, however, the Enhedslisten tells us that the European Union is doing this all too quickly and too many times and that it is not to be near the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163826	Then there is a question from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163832	It is about the fact that, when the European Union is there and is in a battlefield, we have to discuss how best to fight for the political issues we have. And when we see that there are some possibilities for improving the proposal that lies, such as we do. on behalf of the Enhedslisten, and as Mr. Henning Hyllested has explained in the previous questions to the rapporteur, but then it is important that the tools available to us exist within a total harmonisation framework, in other words, where we must not go further and introduce better rights for consumers than those in force in the European Union, or whether we have that option precisely because we are implementing minimum legislation that gives each country the right to take the lead. So if the SF were to choose, I assume that a minimum law would be chosen where individual countries had the right to take the lead or how should that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024163930	In other words, it is always, perhaps especially in relation to the European Union, but also in all sorts of other contexts, always an assessment of where we get some gains because we do not get it all fulfilled and because we might have wanted to see it differently. If there is a market where there is a need for international agreements and international protection of consumers and also for fair competition between providers, then it must be said that it is in the travel market where people, regardless of where they are physically buy goods. It can be said that what we achieve is to have a common agreement within the European Union, and that is more important than not getting it all in the first place, if I may say so. Now I don't have that nationalistic approach to it either, that is to say that you think that all good things have been invented in Denmark and that they in the hot countries can't figure anything out. I don't think so at all. I think we can work things out in the European Union together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164014	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164016	So far, this isn't just about Denmark. It is about the fact that when we make minimum legislation in the European Union, which is what we want, rather than the total harmonisation that lies in this legislative proposal, we create a common floor, common standards in which individual countries can then choose to go further and introduce better standards, for example. For consumer protection, as in this case. This is, after all, a way of creating a more dynamic development in the European Union, where individual countries can lead the way and create political pressure for some things to be implemented. If we are to achieve total harmonisation, in which all countries must agree before anything can be changed, then we are putting a dampening effect on a political dynamic, whereas if we give freer rein to individual countries to introduce better standards than those that apply, we are putting pressure on some changes; changes that can be created in Denmark, Romania or Spain or in Bulgaria or in Britain or elsewhere. It is the dynamics themselves, that is to say the right to take the lead, that is what this is all about, and the SF must be in favour of it. It's not an expression of nationalism, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164120	I have a strong belief that it can also be figured out in other countries and that we are not such people in Denmark who are particularly clever in all kinds of areas and thus have a strong belief that it will probably go wrong if you cooperate with other countries. Both other countries and foreigners can actually possess the ability to also provide consumer protection and create fair competition between providers. It cannot be said that we should have a minimum which could lead the countries; instead, it is implicit in that, Mr President. Rune Lund says that it must of course be Denmark, because you cannot imagine other countries than Denmark taking the lead, because we are obviously the only ones who can figure it out. I don't have that starting point. It is set against a balance being struck. It is extremely important that, in an area such as this, we create consumer protection, and it is more important that we do so together than that we have the opportunity to go further, if I may say so, but it could also be other countries that took the lead. In this area, it is also, of course, necessary to extend consumer protection in future, but it is equally important that we do so together in the European Union because goods are bought across borders. I think Enhedslisten will discover that one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164215	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Mrs Karin Gaardsted has asked for the floor and I would point out that it is actually a privateist, because Mrs Trine Bramsen was in the chair on behalf of the Social Democratic Party at the start of this paragraph and thus took on the rapporteurship. That is the case and there can be only one rapporteur from a party otherwise it could be very cheerful. But now Mrs Karin Gaardsted has the floor as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164240	Thank you, President. This is the first time in my life and hopefully the last time I have to stand here as a privateist, but it went very fast in the Chamber, and I was actually sitting right upstairs, so I'm sorry for that. But now I'm giving the speech that I intended to give. Consumers travelling abroad and abroad need the best consumer protection. The legislative proposal here is that new ways of ordering and putting together travel also require new protection provisions, especially that there are similar rules across borders. The package travel directive on which legislation is based right now is 27 years old, and I think everyone is aware that travelling today is being ordered and composed in a completely different way than back in 1990. The new package travel directive is a total harmonisation directive and therefore, as a starting point, only rules that comply with the rules of the directive can be introduced or maintained. Agreements concluded between travellers and traders on package travel and mixed travel arrangements shall be harmonised with a view to achieving a high level of consumer protection. As a starting point, of course, the Social Democratic Party is in favour of consumer rights. Nevertheless, I have a few points on which I wish to draw attention and on which we need to hear the Minister's position. Firstly, we notice in the Consumer Council Think about the fact that the definitions in the directive and the legislative proposal are so unclear and complicated that it will be very difficult to communicate to consumers, when and how they are covered in different types of travel. Sir. Henning Hyllested explained a little earlier in a descriptive way what a lack of transparency there is. The Consumers' Council Think calls for consideration to be given to how the regulatory framework can be simplified and made clearer so that it is possible to communicate the rules at all so that ordinary consumers can understand them. What is the Minister's position on this problem? Secondly, there is a very specific problem with large hotels with a spa and a swimming pool being exempt from the rules of the bill, while a holiday centre with access to a swimming pool or a bathing area is covered by the bill. In other words, if it's a multi-storey building with a pool inside the house, you let go, but if it's a flat hotel with a swimming pool in the area, you're covered by the rules. My concern is that the Hotel d'Angleterre escapes, but Jesperhus Flower Park and camping must live up to the rules. And what about the campsites in the whole country? That is why it is important to hear the Minister's position on this issue. And I know that Mrs Trine Bramsen has been up to say something from the platform here, and I just want to say that we are awaiting the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164533	Thank you. And then it's sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164538	I am very pleased that Mrs Karin Gaardsted is putting these questions at the end, in other words precisely about the definitions and how it is understood. Because it is and will be completely opaque and, in our opinion, in the Enhedslisten, we simply have to define it in the course of committee work or table amendments or whatever we do. I hope that the Minister will give some more detailed answers, but that will be the case. Mrs Karin Gaardsted also talks about a high level of protection, and that is true when we talk about package travel. But what does Mrs Karin Gaardsted think about the level of protection when we talk about the complex travel arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164622	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164624	In other words, we are looking for a high level of consumer protection, and it is true that it is more complicated about the mixed journeys than it is about package travel. However, we must, in any case, work to ensure that it is transparent for consumers and that they know what to expect and what to do. And what I have said here is that I can be a little bit concerned that consumers do not quite know how much they are protected in relation to what kind of journey they are now choosing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164700	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164702	Well, the problem is not just that the consumer may not quite know whether there is really consumer protection, depending on the travel arrangement he is holding. Does Mrs Karin Gaardsted not agree with me on this and that the problem is also that when we talk exactly about mixed travel arrangements, and this is the new thing in this case, there is virtually no consumer protection that just comes close to the one that is actually for package travel, in other words, besides the fact that, as I have said before, one is of course protected against bankruptcy or insolvency by a tour operator?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164743	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164746	But there we have exactly the committee work to try to unfold this something more, so there's a greater understanding of what belongs to where. It is therefore important for consumers to know what they can expect from protection, in other words from what journey they have bought. So let us take it during the committee work, and of course I will also look at the Minister to see whether we will also get any answers today or whether we will get them later.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164811	So we thank the privateist and note that it, we must say, wholehearted support from the Social Democratic Party, was exchanged for a few questions. Now we can give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024164827	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of this bill. It is to implement a new directive on package travel and complex travel arrangements adopted in the EU in November 2015. The directive is a total harmonisation directive, which means that the Member States will not be able to introduce or maintain rules other than those resulting from the directive. The bill, like the package travel law in force, must regulate the relationship between the buyer and the seller; this applies to the purchase, sale and complaint of package travel. The draft law thus extends to a large extent what is already in force today. The bill must also ensure that we constantly have legislation that goes with time and the way we buy travel. The rules must be balanced in two respects. This is, on the one hand, the concern for travellers, including a high level of consumer protection, and, on the other hand, the concern for traders selling travel. Today, more and more travelers are putting together and buying their travels online. The legislation must take that into account, and it will do so now. The draft law thus covers more journeys and thus protects more travellers from the legislation. This is the case, among other things. taking into account the technological developments of the package travel market since the adoption of the Package Travel Act in force in 1993. The new thing about this proposal is that a package travel can now occur when travel services can be flights, hotel stays or similar flights are purchased and selected by the traveller from the same point of sale, regardless of whether the traveller buys the services from different traders. An example of this could be a traveler who places on a travel portal several of such travel services from different traders in his shopping cart before going to the checkout to book or pay his trip together. The journey is composed of the traveller and is ordered and paid under one. The bill also introduces a completely new type of travel, a so-called composite travel event. Such a complex travel arrangement may, for example: arise if a traveller on a website buys and pays airline tickets and then is passed on to another website via an advertisement from e.g. a hotel, and buy an overnight stay there. The dissemination shall take place as part of an agreement between the two suppliers. For example, it will. if a traveller on the website where he has just purchased flights is presented with an advertisement, e.g. a hotel at the destination on the basis of an agreement between the two operators. Such an agreement will often involve presenting the traveller with an offer that is closely adapted to the travel service that the traveller has just purchased. It could be an advertisement for hotels that lead to an overview of hotels that are adapted to flight tickets, destination and travel dates and also indicate a price for accommodation in that particular period. On the other hand, if contact between the traveller and the other trader takes place solely on the basis of cookies and is therefore based solely on data relating to the traveller's previous search, it is not a matter of communication, and then there is no composite travel arrangement. Combined travel arrangements are not covered by the general rules on package travel. However, the draft law introduces rules on the obligation to provide information applicable to the purchase of such travel arrangements. As something new and unlike in the past, the traveller also obtains protection against bankruptcy or insolvency through the purchase of a complex travel arrangement under the Travel Guarantee Fund Act. To sum up, the draft law takes account of the fact that the ways in which we buy travel today are not the same as when the package travel law in force was adopted in 1993. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for the various contributions and the commitments of most of you to support it. I look forward to further examination, and if there is something I cannot answer here, then fortunately we have the work of the committee where there is an opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165254	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is one question from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165259	The old directive, which this legislation replaces, was a minimum directive, and fine, we can easily be part of it in the Enhedslisten if, otherwise, the subsequent legislation has a high level of consumer protection, and we have actually had that in Denmark. What makes us suddenly switch from having minimum directives in this area to now having total harmonisation directives in this area? Well, of course I can figure out for myself that it probably has something to do with the internal market and the sale of services and things like that. However, as I have already mentioned in previous rounds of questions, this deprives us of the opportunity to go further ourselves. I think this may be a very good example of the contradiction that exists in the fact that one would very much like to have a well-functioning internal market, but here one comes in clinch, if I may say so, with consumer protection. Because we will not have the opportunity in Denmark to create better rules than what the directive says and the subsequent legislation we are now making. And I now take the view that if you want to improve the directive, it also shows a bit of the discussion that we have had in the debate, you have to go through the big, heavy EU system. There I think it is an advantage to come and say that in Denmark we have actually had better rules and that they have actually worked very well, and refer to them and thus go first and be a beacon to change the rules of the European Union. We do not have that option when we agree to implement a total harmonisation directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165447	Thank you. I have now also been listening to several of the questions put by the Members of the Enhedslisten. I just have to say that we should call it what it is. As far as I am concerned, it sounds as if in its basic element this is about just having a different approach to what it is that we believe the European Union should and should not. I fully understand what is being said by the Enhedslisten. I think we just disagree. I think it is a strengthening that we have a common basis, a total harmonisation directive in this area, which provides uniform rules for all EU countries. That is a good consideration for the consumer. I think that is a good thing, and there is neither one nor the other in it, other than that I actually think it's common sense to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165531	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165533	Well, the problem is that with the new concept, complex travel arrangements, we do not have a very comprehensive consumer protection, not something that is just like the one that exists for package travel. There we are now cutting off the possibility of improving consumer protection precisely in the area of mixed travel arrangements, and this is very much needed. However, it is directly stated in the bill that it is not covered by the same rules, the same consumer protection as package travel. This also includes the whole question, which both I and Mrs Karin Gaardsted raised, of whether those very, very woolly, indefinable definitions, if I may say so, as there are in the draft law. The Minister has not gone into this in detail here, but does the Minister not agree that these are rather unfortunate wordings, of the various rules, since we are talking about consumer protection, in other words the protection of travellers in an area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165636	Yes, but it is the case that we need to be aware of the fact that today, unlike in 1993, we are sitting here ordering travel on the Internet and buying travel in a different way than we have done. But it's addressed in this. Then I must admit that when it comes to how to interpret and understand this, we will then experience that practice must show exactly how to cut this. Because we can't sit in the ministry and interpret quite far away from the text that is here. There, of course, we find that we have this directive and there will be a practice that will have to show exactly where the cut is here. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165724	With that, we can thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165740	The debate is open, and that is why I am ready to give the floor to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. This time I expect it to be a legitimate rapporteur in this area. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024165824	It is, and it is also the right speech. It's always good. The proposal here aims to introduce a separate paragraph into the criminal code to mark that burglary differs from other forms of theft. And let me say at the outset that we in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that the number of break-ins in Denmark should continue to fall. But, frankly, we doubt that there will be even less of a single break-in due to the change of law that we are adopting here today. It is merely symbolic, and symbols can in some ways be fine enough if we want to show from a political point of view that we are strongly opposed to anything. It can also be about a sense of justice, i.e. as a citizen you feel that you are seen and heard when you have been exposed to specific forms of crime. That is why we can support the symbolic proposal. But we also want to say that it cannot stand alone. In the spring we had called the Minister of Justice for a question debate on precisely the fight against burglary, and here the Minister promised that a burglary package would be presented in the autumn. And if this, which we are discussing today, is the expression of a burglary package, then I would say that it is a false trade description. In his speech, the Minister writes the following: "Intruder crime is a serious crime which robs ordinary citizens of the security and security associated with a home. Although burglar crime is generally decreasing in Denmark, the government wants to further address burglar crime and thus continue to work for fewer cases of forced entry in Denmark. So, it can hardly be the present proposal to which the Minister refers in his speech. That is why I would like to reiterate my call from the question debate in the spring when we wanted the Minister to call for discussions on the fight against burglary, because we need far more and more creative proposals than just a separate paragraph in the criminal code. I think the thief who breaks into a home doesn't care if you're convicted by one paragraph or another. I don't think that's what keeps a single person from breaking and entering. Instead, we need to listen to experts in this area who clearly point out that requirements for windows and doors and other burglar protection are what have a real effect if we want to further reduce the number of break-ins. And we need to get to work with the police in Eastern Europe in particular with regard to more liaison officers and closer coordination. We support the proposal here. It's symbolic. That's why it can't be alone. But now that we are in the genre of symbolic proposals, that is one we can vouch for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170134	Thank you. This proposal provides for the insertion of a separate provision into the criminal law on burglary and for the punishment of burglary, if there are some at home while the break-in occurs, to be increased by one third. Well, the Danish People's Party can certainly support this proposal, because burglary is very cross-border for those people who suffer, who get their house and very personal belongings either through tossed or stolen. That is why we must, of course, take action against it. Theft resulting from break-ins, where something has been removed from one's house or apartment, is just more extensive than other forms of theft. But I must also admit that I may be slightly disappointed. For the debate we had in Parliament here in the last session was, of course, the beginning of the government's work on making a genuine package of burglars. One package I connect with more things than two in itself quite isolated things. There were a great many good proposals, I think, from the various parties, and it was then the conclusion that we have here, i.e. to increase the penalty a little if people have been at home and then a separate paragraph in the criminal code. I do not think that really changes the situation, so I am a little disappointed. You can't patent ideas, but I would like to bring some into play and hope that the government will be inspired by some of the ideas of the Danish People's Party; some of them, which we traveled in the spring when we had that debate. Firstly, it is absolutely essential that we do something about border checks in this country. It may well be that you would not be able to see travelling criminals in all cases when they cross the border, but there must be equal opportunities when they go back out. That is why it would be absolutely essential to take action against burglar crime to ensure that border checks are tightened up at the Danish borders. I think the government could do something about that. Secondly, much harder action must be taken against the heels. If you can stop it, you will probably be able to stop a very large proportion of burglar crime. It would be logical to address it. It's also about some people in this society who need to change their mentality. You should not buy something that is stolen, because then you just run the risk of burglarism continuing and continuing. Thirdly, it is obvious that we should also discuss the sanctions that exist, particularly against foreign nationals, such as, for example, if they come from Romania, they cannot at the moment be sent home for service. We need to have tougher sanctions against people who come here and commit crime, and I hope, of course, that the government will take care of that too. But then, summa summarum: there are plenty of different initiatives that we can launch and which I hope the government will consider here in the future. Otherwise, it may be that some people want to help the government, and that could also be interesting. But, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal because it is a little in the right direction, and that is a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170443	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next one is Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170452	Thank you for that, President. Today we are debating two things with this proposal, L 34: on the one hand, whether we should have an independent criminal code on burglary and, on the other hand, whether the penalty for burglary in private homes should be increased when there have been people in the house. The left is a strong supporter of the special burglary clause in the penal code. The existing provision on theft, § 276, covers everything from the theft of a Yankiebar in Use to a carefully planned burglary where there are residents at home. It is high time that we signal exactly as in Germany that burglary is something special, and I will certainly not rule out the possibility that at a later stage we may use this distinction between paragraphs 276 and 276a for a special punishment for the latter. However, that is not what has been proposed right now. On the other hand, there is a one-third punishment for breaking into private homes where there are residents at home. We have been waiting for that provision for a long time, because it is high time that we were marked against the criminals, that we were looking at this situation very differently with the extra psychic pressures that this entails for those who are in the house. However, we in the Left would like to see the concept of this provision put into practice in committee. Should the thief know that there are some at home to be punished by the decree, or is there any presumption that there are some at home in a private home? We believe the last thing we think is that it must be the thief's job to prove that he knew that the house was yawningly empty for people if he wants to bypass the provision 276a and bypass the penalty. Perhaps it would have been more simple for the law to simply increase punishment when it was a matter of breaking into a home, briefly and well, because then we were out of the discussion about what a burglar would assume. In any case, this is something we would like to have discussed in committee, so we will find out who has the burden of proof for this. We look forward to discussing this in committee and, of course, we support this bill. We should also welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170733	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170739	Thank you. After all, I am a great supporter of border controls, and there is evidence that the government has put its hands on it in Brussels to ensure that the countries of Europe can decide for a longer period to have border controls at their own borders. It is, of course, positive if it becomes possible to have border controls for a longer period of time. At least that is progress. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on some of what I myself said in my rapporteur's speech in relation to border checks. Is it something that the Left will support to strengthen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170812	It is simply not something I have heard that we are planning at the moment. But I must also honestly admit that it is on Mr. Marcus Knuth's area, so whether there are discussions within that committee, I am simply not aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170826	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Rune Lund, we need to get on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024170844	Thank you. Intruder crime, as stated in the comments on this bill, is a serious crime which robs ordinary citizens of the security and security associated with a home. And even though burglar crime is generally decreasing in Denmark, it may make sense to take further action against burglar crime and thus to work to ensure that there are fewer break-ins in Denmark. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten we also think that when we discuss what to do about the still large number of break-ins that are per. In Denmark, where we are in second place at European level only by Greece, rather than adopting a policy of symbolism, which has little or no effect, we have to look at what actually works. With this bill, we are really dealing with symbolism policy, where one has to doubt that there will be fewer break-ins out of adopting this bill. As you can see in some of the hearings, there are doubts as to whether this will lead to more people being convicted under these paragraphs at all. These are some of the points raised in the hearings. But at least it is very doubtful whether this will have any effect at all, to put it mildly, while at the same time choosing to increase the penalty. We are therefore once again dealing with a proposal to increase the penalty without having a real crime prevention and combating effect. If you want to do something about burglar crime, which is falling, you would rather and we would much rather take up what is also part of the consultation answer that has come from the Crime Prevention Council. They write that they welcome the government's focus on preventing burglary. However, the Crime Prevention Council considers that an independent burglary clause will only have a limited preventive effect, and here comes the interesting advice in this regard, among other things. legislation which makes housing more resistant to burglary. That is, in fact, what we know will have the greatest effect if we are to do something about breaking and entering. For Denmark, the European countries have the second most burglaries per year. citizens, only surpassed by Greece. If we adopted legislation in the Folketing, then it became part of the building regulations that one had to make shell protection which could ensure that there would be a minimum break-through time of e.g. 3 minutes on windows and doors and locks, that would deter many thieves from breaking into. Research shows this, and it is the unanimous recommendation of a large number of actors who have been influencing the debate in this area for many years. This applies both to Insurance & Pension, to the Crime Prevention Council, to the SecurityBranch, and to many others. And there's solid evidence that this is actually working. It could be done, as in the Netherlands and England, which have introduced legal requirements that burglary protection for new buildings and larger conversions should be implemented, and specifically that doors and windows and locks should have a minimum penetration time of e.g. Three minutes. In both countries we have seen a halving of the number of break-ins in newly built homes. We can also look at the experience that it is not only the homes themselves that will have better shell protection, but the very fact that there are houses, housing with better shell protection means that burglars opt out of those areas. You simply make life harder for the burglars. So there's plenty we can do to prevent burglary, but this bill is just punishment with punishment. It is symbolic policy without any real effect, and therefore Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171307	This gave rise to a question from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171311	Thank you. Now the rapporteur talks a lot about preventive work. What is the rapporteur's position on this matter when crime is carried out? Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a difference between going down to Brugsen and stealing a Mars Bar or committing a carefully planned break-in where there are residents in the house?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171335	On the one hand, we believe that burglar crime is a very serious form of crime. It can be said that making an independent provision can be fine if it is otherwise done in a way that does not give rise to technical problems. After all, there is a hearing from the Østre Landsret which points out that there are some problems in the way the draft law has been put together here. But basically, if you, as a government, think seriously that burglar crime is a serious problem, why do you come here with such a symbolic political proposal, which will most likely have no real effect at all? I think that other tools could be used, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to discuss this subject many times, and we have a united opposition which wants to look at the possibilities of better shelling; a report was produced following on from motion for a resolution B 129 which we discussed in the last session. So we currently have a situation where the political forces that want to do something real about the problem and to create the basis for fewer break-ins in Denmark are the political forces that are currently constituting the opposition in this Parliament. But that will, of course, change at the moment we have an election where, hopefully, a new majority will come into power. Then, of course, something will happen in that area which is not just symbolic but which will actually have a real effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171453	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171456	I understand that the rapporteur is more concerned with security, and that is fair enough. That is an essential part. That's just not what we're discussing today. Today we are discussing whether there should be a section 276 independent and a section 276 A independent, and we do so, among other things. also because it gives us an opportunity to add two different levels of punishment. What I would like the rapporteur to say is actually just: does the rapporteur argue that there must be a higher penalty if the residents are at home in a house when a break-in is committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171532	We are generally in favour of a link between the level of penalties and the action being taken. We do not want to do what is often done in the legal field in this Parliament. This is what is unfortunately in fashion at the moment. Because then it's just symbol politics where you try to appear as if you're doing something. You try to appear as if you are trying to solve the problem of burglary, but that is not what you do when you only put forward symbolic policies that have no real meaning in the real world, and that is what I think is the problem with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171616	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171624	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to make it apparent in the criminal code that burglary differs from other forms of theft, by inserting a separate provision on burglary into section 276a of the Criminal Code. The bill also provides for a third increase in the penalty for burglary compared to the applicable level of punishment for burglary committed in residential areas where people have been in the home during the break-in. The same will apply in public and private offices, shops, factories, etc., where people have been involved in the break-in. You have to be able to feel safe in Denmark, and that also applies when you are at home with yourself. Home invasion is a very serious attack on our private sphere and can be extremely traumatizing. There are particularly aggravating circumstances, and it is particularly traumatizing if you are at home while the break-in takes place. In the Liberal Alliance, we protect private property, the inviolability of housing. These are absolutely essential principles of the rule of law. Therefore, it makes good sense, in our opinion, to mark that burglary differs from other forms of theft and that as a thief the consequences of its actions are more clearly felt. With those words, I must inform you that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171758	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on, and for the alternative it is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024171807	Thank you, Mr President. It is really nice to be able to stand here again as the legal rapporteur, because I have been away from that for a while, so I am glad to be back. As several speakers have said, today we are debating what is called L 34, which is about inserting a separate provision on burglary into the criminal code, including tightening the penalty for burglary while residents are at home. There should be no doubt whatsoever that being at home during a break-in must be one of the most insulting and really, really unpleasant. I think we can all imagine the situation in which a break-in is committed at home while you are at home and, for example, at home. I'm sleeping. That is why, in a positive way, I think that the government is addressing how we can do something about it. So I actually think the purpose of the legislative provision is sensible, but the problem is just what the Minister for Justice has grabbed when he stuck his hand in the drawer. Apparently, there he came up with a new independent criminal code. Yes, and then you have to look at the consultation answers, and there I think it is very important to look at what the Østre Landsret brings in, namely that if the only purpose in reality is to increase the penalty, we could have done so in the current provision. I'd like to have a problem with whether this will help. What is happening is that the penalty is increased from 30 to 40 days for first-time burglary if it can be proved that he or she has a intention to break in while there is someone at home if he or she knows that there is someone at home. I have to say that I do not believe that raising the penalty from 30 to 40 days is what deters them. In addition, one might ask whether it will help to make an independent provision in the criminal code about this. I don't think that's very fear-provocative to a burglar either. Now Enhedslisten has already mentioned the Crime Prevention Council's hearing answer, and there I find it insanely interesting to see why we have so many break-ins in Denmark because we do and we do because we live close, we live in parcel houses, and thus it is really, really easy for a burglar to go around the garden and get in the garden door or window or whatever it is. That is why if we really had to do something about this, we would have to do something about it by securing it in the building regulations. There, of course, I also find it interesting that, before the summer recess, in connection with a motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, namely B 129, we actually put together a very large minority which reported on this resolution: the Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative, which said that it was important for the government to put forward a proposal to amend the building law so that in future new construction and major renovations would ensure satisfactory security in terms of burglary. See, it could increase the security of the population, whether you are at home or not at home when a break-in is committed. So in the alternative, I have to say, we turn our thumbs down because we simply think that this is a proposal that does not help solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172150	Thank you. There is one question from Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172153	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. In relation to the last remark made by the rapporteur on the report made before the summer recess, I am actually just interested in hearing about the thinking behind the remark. Because it is clear that if you force the Danes to turn their houses into massively secured bastions, where it is impossible to break in, then you do something about burglars. That goes without saying. My question is: where is the limit of the alternative? Well, that thought can lead to many places. Should legislation ensure that we all have walls around our houses and thus that no one can break in? So, where does the physical limit of what the alternative means to legislate on?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172241	Thank you for the question, which I am very pleased about, because in this respect I believe that the alternative and the Liberal Alliance have in fact partly the same thinking. I do not want forts to be built up, nor do we want all Danes to have an alarm. But we know that too little money can actually be burglarized in windows and doors, and we think it might be fair in relation to all new buildings etc. that we go in and see if we can do something there. We see in the Netherlands that it has caused their burglary to fall by 70%, and I think that is actually worth taking along. However, I fully agree with the underlying position that I can hear lies in the question put by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and must answer: No, I certainly do not want us to build fortified houses. That is why, of course, I also want there to be a penalty if you commit burglary, but the whole purpose of this is to try to prevent burglary from being committed, and that is just not the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172347	But I am glad that the rapporteur confirms that Danish homeowners will not be forced by law to build walls around their houses. And as the rapporteur says, it is true that there are burglar windows that are really effective, but my question is just: does the rapporteur think that the Danes are so stupid that they are not able to decide for themselves that they would like to have a burglar window when faced with having to change windows without having to impose it by law in the Folketing? In fact, I think the Danes can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172418	Well there are a lot of Danes who can, but I actually think it's important to say that when a craftsman makes an offer, it's also important that it's on the right window and the right door etc., and not necessarily everyone gets into this with whether it's burglar-proof. So I still think that if you wanted to solve the problem, you could have incorporated it as part of this bill, but it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172443	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172453	Mrs Zenia Stampe is the Radical Left rapporteur on the bill, and I shall give the rapporteur's speech in her absence. The bill introduces a separate provision for burglary in criminal law. This is to distance burglary from other forms of theft, for example: bike theft or simple pickpocket. In addition, the bill provides for a general increase in the penalty for burglary in residence if there is anyone at home. Radical Left notes that, in the light of the hearings, the Ministry of Justice has clarified that the perpetrator must have continued to break into a residence where someone has been at home in order for the punishment to take place. The Radical Left agrees that burglary crime is more insecure than it is, for example. bicycle theft and that it is an aggravating circumstance whose break-in is committed against a home where there is someone at home. The Radical Left can therefore support the bill, although we doubt that punishments in themselves will help to reduce the number of home robberies. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172608	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172618	If we are to do something effective in breaking and entering, then the logical thing is that the houses must be secured considerably better. Is that not also what the Crime Prevention Council writes in the hearing answer? They point out precisely that a legal requirement for burglar protection will work effectively. And here, we have to say, there's still a long way to go. SF believes that there are good arguments for making a special paragraph about burglary, instead of that crime being covered by the current law on theft. The more precise our laws are, the easier it is to give precise judgments. It's a plea for us to split up the law. But there is no reason to believe that the severe tightening up of the penal framework, which is also being proposed, will have any particular significance. But, of course, it may well make sense to give some hard sentences for breaking into homes, because such a break-in is all about a lot more and much more than just losing some specific items. Overall, I would say that the SF is sceptical about the bill, because the punishment is most tasteful of the need to show such action, but that it has not been shown that it will be of great importance. At a later stage, the SF will take a final decision on the draft law through the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172759	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024172808	Thank you. Thank you for the most positive contributions that have been made on this matter. burglar crime is a home is the most important place a family has. The home is the place where young and old must always feel safe and secure. For this reason, burglary affects most people, and it can leave people with a fear that is hard to get rid of again. It is therefore also very positive that burglar crime is generally decreasing in Denmark. However, if we compare Denmark with other European countries, we remain among the countries that experience the most cases of forced entry. I think we can and should do better. That is why, earlier this year, I launched three initiatives to tackle burglary and help reduce and reduce the number further. Two of the initiatives require amendment of the law, and that is why we have them here today. It is proposed as a first step that a new independent provision on burglary should be included in the criminal code. With an independent burglary clause in the penal code, we mark the seriousness of the crime, so it should be clear to everyone. At the same time, we send out a clear signal that burglary differs from other forms of theft, such as simple pickpocket and bicycle theft, to take some examples. Secondly, it is proposed that the penalty for burglary committed in residential areas where people have been in the home during the break-in should be increased by one third in relation to the current level of punishment, and this punishment also clearly indicates that burglary is a serious crime. So when the four walls of the house collapse and security disappears as a result of a break-in, the burglar must also feel the consequence of his action. That is why I want to sharpen the penalty for burglary committed in residential areas where, during the break-in, there have been people in the home by one third compared to the applicable level of punishment. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your speeches and look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am at your disposal to answer any questions that may come here and during the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173027	It does not seem that there are any questions, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173050	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173107	Yesterday I met with the mayors of Funen, and one of the themes we discussed was gang problems. There is no doubt that it is really something that concerns both the mayors of Funen and the mayors of the rest of the country. Why does it do that? Yes, because the insecurity created by the gangs is so devastating to life in the city and on land. This was also the reason why, in December 2016, we called for a question debate on precisely the gang problems and instructed the Minister to call for negotiations on a new gang package. It is part of the gang package that we are discussing here today. In the spring we dealt with a series of the tools that the police today say are absolutely essential in order to put an end to the activities of criminal groups. Today, then, we are dealing with the part that is to ensure that gang members cannot necessarily return to the area in which they committed their crime. It has been the subject of legal clarification. We think it is important to have the best legal basis for adopting such a proposal, and that is why we first adopt this part on the other side of the summer holiday, although I know that it is a proposal that has been requested, not least among the mayors. Specifically, the amendment of the criminal code means that, in the context of a criminal conviction, the courts may grant a residence ban to persons who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment or other criminal prosecution of the detention of an offence covered by Section 81a of the Criminal Code. It may also be granted to persons who are subject to unconditional prison sentences or other criminal prosecution of detention for violation of the criminal code, the law on drugs or the law on weapons and explosives, and who are associated with the gang environment, in other words organised crime. As an example, an architect of the gang conflict at Nørrebro, who is judged by the laws in question, can at the same time be sentenced to a residence ban so that he cannot return to, for example, Nørrebro. We think that is fair, because if we now know that the mere fact that individuals are getting out of prison can speed up even very extensive conflicts with killings, assaults and, above all, insecurity for ordinary citizens as a consequence, it is important that we provide the police with the tools to prevent it and, above all, that we have the courts to ensure that these people cannot return. Is the example mentioned just thought? No, it's not. You just have to open up the media these months to see that it is actually the case that individuals can return to an area and then the conflicts flare up again. Does this proposal mean that we will never have to introduce any other legislation to stop the gangs again? No, I'm afraid it doesn't. The gangs are constantly evolving, and that is why I do not think it is the last gang package we have adopted. We will have to continuously follow up the activities of criminals, and this requires tools that match the developments in the criminal environments. We also lack the part that is about prevention so that young people do not end up in the criminal environments... an absolutely crucial effort... just as we need to look at the entire criminal services and how gang members are handled here. But the residence ban is another tool in the toolbox that pushes the gangs and makes life much harder for them as long as they are criminals. You can't make a gang package without having to pay for it. It is known that we in the Social Democratic Party would have liked the money spent on lowering inheritance taxes to have been spent here. We proposed this throughout the debate. The government did not agree with this and, therefore, the principle of earning children and young people's benefits and family allowances is tightened, so that the current requirement for association with Denmark in order to qualify for the full benefits is tightened by increasing the two-year period of residence or employment within the last 10 years to 6 years. One can discuss the logic of this link between the field of action and the source of funding, and I also remember a Social Democratic government which used savings on dental cleaning to finance a criminal welfare agreement, so it is probably not new. This does not change the fact that I think it is a little strange, nor does it change the fact that the Social Democrats support the gang package. We think it is so crucial. We think it is so important that we help the mayors that I met, who are around the country, and who experience how citizens are insecure about gang crime. We also support an increase in the profit period. So, overall, we can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173626	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173629	This is the funding of this proposal that I would like to ask about. For there is no doubt that the way in which the funding for this is linked together will hit some of the most vulnerable children in our country. How does this relate to the fight against crime and the prevention of crime that the rapporteur has just spoken about? Because if you tear away the financial basis of a family that already has little money, you are weakening everything else just to give the children the best start to life, and hence also, if we talk about children who grow up under difficult conditions, the possibility that they can get out of or away from a criminal path and into the right path, which is, of course, the path that leads to life as a law-abiding citizen who contributes best to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173726	We believe that we must help those families who are being economically oppressed. That's what we've been out to say many times. We want to go in and support these families, for example with a children's package, so that they can get rubber boots or extra supplements for diapers. When we choose to support this principle of profit, it is also about influx. There has been a report from Norway which shows that benefits are more important to the influx than we in the Social Democratic Party had thought when we last held this debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is why we have chosen to say that we support an increase in the period of earning. Because the influx has something to do with how many people come in and live in those residential areas where this crime is very much flourishing and developing. That is why we need to limit the number of people who come to Denmark, and that is where the benefits are important. So that's how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173837	One can always discuss the importance of benefits for whether people choose to go to Denmark or another country. But what we know at least with this funding, where you choose to take up to 77 million. kr. The rapporteur must admit that. I do not really understand how this is related to a policy in which, for example, there is a policy. The Social Democrats' party programme states that we want to combat inequality, or that we want to fight inequality, for example. in 2015 voted against a recovery period for refugees in the low integration grant. Because this will do exactly what has been thought of in the past in the Social Democratic Party, namely create more difficult conditions for social action and preventive action.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024173943	There are two things to say about that. One is that we want a new youth crime package to be on the table, preferably very soon. So this isn't about dropping the effort on young people who are at risk of crime. We have also said several times that we think that if, for example, there is a father who is a gang criminal, it should trigger a warning, so you open the lid to that family and look at whether there is any parenthood in relation to the children or whether there is a risk that these children will end up in crime themselves. The same is true if there's a big brother in crime. The other part I kind of answered before. In relation to the debate that has taken place a few years ago, we simply have to admit and acknowledge in the Social Democrats that we have become wiser. The benefits have a greater impact on the influx and the influx has an impact on integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174037	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174040	I think Mrs Trine Bramssen made a very fine speech on the fight against the gangs. What is completely incomprehensible to me is how the Social Democrats can achieve that with one hand they will make an effort against the gangs and, with the other hand, stumbles off the most vulnerable and vulnerable children and young people with the risk that the society they then set up will be one that gives the food chain more to work with, into the gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174113-2	Well, as I also said in my speech, the Social Democratic Party proposed another source of funding for this. Surely there should be no doubt about that. When we have chosen to support a gang package, it is because the gang problems are so violent and so insecure for so many, many thousands of Danes that we wanted to give the police some new tools. The fact that the debate on benefits is another, we are happy to admit. But that does not change the fact that, in relation to the influx to Denmark, we have had to make the realization that benefits have an impact on how many people come here, and that is why we also think it is reasonable that there is a principle of income, so that there is a longer period of time before you get a share in the welfare benefits that we have spent years to secure in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174207	I am not going to deny that services can have an impact on the influx, but what does that have to do with the gangs? I see the Social Democrats taking one step forward and two steps back here, because what becomes the point here on the bottom line is that you take money from the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable and spend it on the task that is important, but the conclusion is that the Social Democrats here are trapped in the right-wing mousetrap, by getting them to make a good effort, you get them on a deeply antisocial, repulsive funding. That is what I miss an answer to: how, as a Social Democrat, do you not defend the gang package? I can hear you can do that, and I think it is connected too, but why should you take the money from the vulnerable and the vulnerable?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174248	In fact, I think I answered that in my speech. The way in which we have cross-financing is not connected. We do not think that there is any connection between the adoption of a gang package and the use of funding from a completely different area, but bottom line does not change the fact that we support both the gang package and that we have also had to make the realization that services are important for the influx to Denmark, and that we in the Social Democratic Party have had to make the recognition even longer ago that if we are to integrate people, it matters how many people come here, and then the calculation goes up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174326	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174335	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with a bill arising from the agreement on gang package III, a bill which the Danish People's Party looks forward to being adopted. The purpose of the residence ban is to strengthen the fight against biker and gang crime by removing the person concerned from the area or areas where the person has committed crime or where the group has committed crime is staying. At the same time, this bill also tightens up when foreigners have the right to receive the full child benefit, something that the Danish People's Party has also worked on for a long time. For the Danish People's Party, concern for the security and security of citizens where they live and move will always be given greater weight than the criminal and his family and thus their ability to continue to travel in the criminal environment, although this means that the criminal can no longer live in his own home or near the family. Because what we are witnessing at the moment, especially in the Copenhagen area, is totally unacceptable. After all, there will not be a week in which there will be no shootings and even murders, even innocent young men will be hit and families of children will live in fear. Now the police must regain control so that the citizens can again walk safely in the streets of Copenhagen, not to mention the gang groups we see around the rest of the country. That is why we in the Danish People's Party could already ask the Minister a new question today about whether we could tighten up further, for example by making a ban that is directed from person to person, i.e. a gang leader who is prohibited from associating with named persons, and that could then be gang members, for example. It's kind of hard to be the leader of a gang you can't relate to. After all, it is no secret that the Danish People's Party has been working for a long time to introduce a longer principle of income for foreigners before they can enjoy the benefits of the Danish welfare. That we now find the economy to be able to impose stricter penalties on gangs by tightening up the principle of income before foreigners can receive the full child benefit for children under the age of 18, we very much welcome in the Danish People's Party. We would have liked to see the principle of profit also applied to EU citizens and others, but now we have to take one step at a time. At least this is a start. With this bill, we change the principle of profit in order to receive the full child benefit from 2 to 6 years, and we welcome this, and the Danish People's Party supports the proposal and is happy to look forward to its implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174617	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Britt Baker, as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174627	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have carefully examined what this bill contains, which is why I should just like to say that the Left welcomes the government's proposal for a residence ban for bikers and gang members very much. In our view, this is the supremely important proposal of the gang package. I would just like to make a few comments on the proposal. According to the proposal, a gang member can be sentenced to stay away from one or more municipalities for up to 10 years, but according to the text of the law there is no precise definition of when the court should be more precise. In fact, the proposal states that the court can expect that provision to be applied in all cases where a biker's business has created insecurity for 15 minutes, and that will certainly be in very many cases. We are on the side of the law-abiding citizen, and there should be no doubt whatsoever that if a gang member has created insecurity and thus deserves a residence ban, we expect the courts to give the citizen the benefit of the doubt. Similarly, when the court has to determine the territory and the date to which the residence ban is to be extended. If the court is in doubt, the doubt must benefit the citizen and not the convicted criminal. In the Left, we stress that those who violate the ban are sentenced to prison for up to two years and that the police, then immediately the convicted person is spotted in the area, are arresting them. There is no doubt that this proposal goes to the limit of what we can do within the European Convention on Human Rights, but we are on the safe side, and the last paragraph of the comments says more about it, and I will not explain that now. I just want to say that the Left supports this proposal. We are very excited about it, and Mr. Naser Khader and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174856	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024174900	We also believe in the Enhedslisten that we should combat gang crime and that we should make it hard. But as the President just introduced the rapporteur's party, the title "Danmarks liberal party" is actually adorned. This must also be assumed to mean that fundamental freedoms in the Left are very much at stake. If you listen to what the rapporteur said in his speech and look at what lies in the European Convention on Human Rights and the Court's practice in relation to the right to freedom of movement, which applies to citizens who have not been sentenced to the death penalty and the right to family life, then it is of course very important that this should be done on a concrete basis when restricting people's right to family life or people's right to freedom of movement. A legal society is characterised by the fact that the people you do not like and the people you do not like have the same rights as all other people, provided that there is no danger of those people committing specific crimes. It is also part of the Human Rights Institute's response. So how does the rapporteur see the link between what the rapporteur has just said, namely that in general it is simply necessary to impose a ban on residence, when practice and convention actually say that this should be done with a concrete starting point, in other words with regard to the risk of actual crime being committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175027	But that is exactly what the legislative text says, that is to say, it must be a concrete assessment. Of course, a concrete assessment needs to be made. Now we just point out to the judges that the concrete assessment is that it has to be done virtually every time. But this is nothing new. We already have it today in the case of sexual crimes; we already have it by stalking. This isn't something we just do headless. We believe that it remains within the scope of the Convention on Human Rights. It also does so for the sexual crimes where, for example, we can condemn them. a stalker's right to enter a particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175108	Excuse me, but the courts must be very confused when they hear what the rapporteur on the Left says here. For either it is a concrete assessment, or it is something that is being done in general. Well, you can't do both at once. It may well be that it is because certain parties want to sound so it is the good interpretation and just an expression of rhetoric that has no bottom or substance in the real world. But if that is the other thing, in other words that we do not want to follow the practice and conventions which Mrs Britt Baker's party supports, then we have a problem, because then we are in the process of adopting legislation which is at best at odds with the conventions that the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, says they support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175156	First of all, I say in my rapporteur's speech that I believe that this remains within the scope of the Convention. I fully stand by that. I'm also saying it goes to the limit. I stand by that too. But there is a difference between whether something goes to the border or crossing the border. Secondly, this is a provision we are now inserting, which means that the courts must of course follow that provision. But I also say in my speech that there are some things that I would very much like to have clarified. When something has just been left to the interpretation of the courts, I would like to clarify how we in the Left think it should be done. It is clear that this is something we need to discuss in committee work, but in our opinion there are things in this proposal that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175243	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175307	Thank you, President. This bill translates part of the gang package III and the funding to cover the costs of the whole gang package III. It is a legislative proposal which concerns the residence ban, which is part of the gang package. The Penal Code is proposed to be amended to allow the courts, in the context of a criminal conviction, to grant a stay ban on persons who are sentenced to unconditional prison sentences or other criminal proceedings of a detention nature, as it stands, for an offence covered by the gang paragraph, and for persons who are sentenced to unconditional prison sentences or other criminal proceedings of a detention nature, inter alia. The financing is done precisely by making changes to the law on child and youth benefits, as well as the law on family allowances and the advance payment of child allowances. In this way, the gang package is financed by taking money from some of the most vulnerable young people, some of the most vulnerable families, claiming on the one hand that we will do something to combat gang crime, while on the other hand we are doing the exact opposite with certainty by destroying the opportunities for families in difficult situations and for vulnerable young people to have the best conditions to become good citizens of our country. It can be seen in the bill that a residence ban means a ban on movement and residence in one or more defined areas. How much should it be or not be is very unclear from the draft law, because how should the proportionality assessment be carried out, i.e. how large should it be? We can also see that the residence ban must be granted from 1 to 10 years from the final judgment and that the sentenced person three years after release or discharge may require the prosecution to bring the issue of the retention of the residence ban before the court. No stay may be prohibited in cases where the penalty alone is a fine or a conditional prison. After all, the ban on residence raises a large number of fundamental issues in relation to fundamental freedoms in our country. Because there is no doubt that when people commit crime, they must be punished. But is it now necessary to introduce some form of double sentence, so that people who have endured their sentences and been in prison for many years, if they have committed very serious crimes, have to have a double sentence because, when they have been released after having been sentenced in the normal way, as we normally see, they will not be able to visit the area where they were born and raised, where their families live, or where they may have their own homes? These are some very intrusive measures we are dealing with here. In the discussions we had during the negotiations over in the Ministry of Justice, I must say that there was no hiding that we were completely out of balance here on the edge of the conventions. Then we were assured, just as we are assured of it here from the platform today, that we would certainly remain within the framework of the conventions. But when we look at how, more specifically, we intend to do so when we read the draft law, we are in doubt as to whether it will succeed particularly well now. The National Association of Defence Attorneys considers the proposal for a residence ban to be legally and delimitingly questionable. We have the Association of Prisons, which is also very concerned about the proposal, considering that it will be difficult to comply with and control, and that, in this context, it will be extremely resource-intensive for both police and criminal services to deal with in relation to release and supervision. The Federation further states that, in order to get the convicted person out of crime, it should be ensured that, despite the prohibition of residence, it should continue to be able to have contact with family resident in the area covered by the residence ban. In other words, if we want people to be re-socialised, if we want people to become good citizens after the end of punishment, then it is also about having access to your family and your network so that you can see that there is a way out of crime; in other words, there is a road that is about leading a normal life rather than leading a life based on a criminal career. The Institute for Human Rights mentions in a very long and detailed consultation answer a large number of things which the Foundation believes should be clarified, not least that, in order to be sentenced to a residence ban, the person concerned should be assumed to constitute a concrete danger. And reference is made, among other things. to specific judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the Foundation raises the question of whether the existence of a specific danger is in line with what is also described in the comments to the draft law, namely that a residence ban should be imposed in general. There are just two things that are not connected. It should also be further clarified who is covered by this residence ban at all, because it is also unclear. And, of course, a proportionality assessment must also be carried out. The criteria to be included in this balance should be clarified. So because we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that we should be punished for the actions we are committing, not because we are in a certain place, because the funding is totally biased in this proposal and because there are a large number of fundamental things that have not been clarified in relation to the fundamental freedoms of citizens, the Enhedslisten, taken together, cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175853	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175858	I simply note that Mr. Rune Lund is here talking about re-socialization... hardcore gang members who need to be re-socialised. Resocialization requires first of all socialisation. These are not young people, because of course we must take action against young people; they must be re-socialised. These are hardcore gang members who have a business in an area that we'll try to prevent them from resuming. So I'd really like to hear, Rune Lund: Who is it the Enhedslisten wants to protect here, it's the citizens, or are it the gangs?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024175937	This is interesting because, first of all, the question is based on a wrong premise. What is meant by hardcore gang members? It is true that there are a small number of gang members who have chosen it as a criminal career and are likely to be criminals for most of their lives and who will not be susceptible to exit programs or resocializing efforts. And then there is the large part of the gang members; among other things. We can see in relation to the immigrant gangs, where there is a huge flow, that there are a large number of people who are susceptible to resocialising efforts. So, in relation to the issue of just talking about hardcore gang criminals, I would like to say that this is a much more complex group than that expressed by the questioner. Then it is about the fact that if we want people to commit less crime, then we also have to do what works. And excuse me, for example. making such a residence ban and preventing people from moving in the area where their family lives, their networks live, or where they have a residence that is essential for people to leave a criminal path and embark on a road where they want to be law-abiding citizens who contribute positively to society, you go in and destroy that work, and then you create more and not less crime. So who is doing something for the citizens here? Is the Left that is going to adopt such a proposal here, which has no effect but which can be seriously harmful, or the Enhedslisten, which is proposing to do the things that actually work in order to combat crime? At least it's not the Left that draws the longest straw here. If we are merely to conduct symbolic policies, which may even have a detrimental effect on resocializing work, then that is a problem, we think on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180113	[Sound emission] agrees on who can be rehabilitated and what the concept of rehabilitation covers. But now that Mr. Rune Lund is taking on the role of the judge whether a person should be re-socialised or not, so I can only understand it in the sense that Mr. Rune Lund doesn't believe it's the judges who have to make this assessment. Because the proposal here is precisely that the court can then I have to see it here in such a way that Mr. Rune Lund does not have the confidence in the judiciary in Denmark that they are able to assess whether a person, a gang member, can be resocialised or not and thus must be condemned to a residence ban or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180201	What the courts have to decide is whether there is a concrete danger of committing crime again or of being dangerous to the neighbourhood to which they might be sent back. And there, according to the Convention and the European Court of Human Rights, it will be possible, on the basis of a proportionality assessment, to go in and see if such a residence ban can be imposed. What is the problem with the draft law here is that it is quite unclear whether it is intended that the draft law should lean on the practice and the European Convention on Human Rights, because it is written that in general this residence ban should be imposed. That is what the Institute for Human Rights raises in its hearing answer, so that it is completely unclear how the law should be understood. Because, on the one hand, it is said that it should be in general and, on the other hand, it is said that a concrete assessment should be made. The two things are simply not connected. On the other hand, however, I have full confidence in the courts, in other words that they are judging in line with what is the European Convention on Human Rights and what is the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. So that's where I have full confidence. But this bill is a mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180301	The next question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180306	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on what the rapporteur said, because I do not really think the rapporteur answered the very good question that Mrs Britt Baker put to the rapporteur before. Who is it that the rapporteur thinks we should protect? Is it the citizen, or is it the gang? And so also: is it the gang member who has to move out of the area, or is it the mother who comes with her two children in bicycle trailers and who no longer dares to live in the area because the bullets are flying around his ears? That is a very easy question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180335	I am on the side of the victims, and I am about to think that we should pursue the legal policy that works. We must do the things that work and, at the same time, we must do it in a way that does not violate fundamental freedoms in our society. I know that this is not something that the Danish People's Party cares so much about. The Danish People's Party is the only party here in the Danish Parliament that wants to break with the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. So perhaps I can understand the reason why the Danish People's Party is asking exactly that question, because fundamental freedoms are not something that the Danish People's Party is concerned with in this way, as are all other parties in this Parliament. In relation to gangs, for example, when you look at statistics and developments in who is a member of a biker gang or an immigrant gang, for example, you have to say that there is a huge flow and if you give up the hope that in a few years' time young people who are currently members of a gang can actually become law-abiding citizens who contribute positively to society, you do not generally do anything good for the citizens of our society. Because if we do something that does not create less crime, but, in such a way, prevents re-socialising efforts and thus creates more crime, then we will have more victims in the future. So with the policy one wants to pursue here, with which one might restrict access to people's networks, people's families or the place where they were born and raised, and where they have their homes, one destroys the possibilities of rehabilitation. And that is where I think the questioner should answer if it does not actually lead to more crime. And which side is the Danish People's Party on here? The citizens' side? Hardly! Because it cannot possibly be in the interests of the citizens that there should be more crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180518	Fortunately, I am now asking the questions, and I can promise you that the Danish People's Party is in favour of human rights for Danish law-abiding citizens, and we have done so at all times. But then I would just like to ask this extra question: does the rapporteur not think that one young gang member can be rehabilitated in another residential area, in another neighbourhood, in another city if all the other tools are made available? All this is about is that you now have some other surroundings in a different geographical space. Can we not rehabilitate places other than in exactly the home we used to live in?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180557	Depends on who you are. What is crucial in relation to the residence ban and what is the basis of the Convention, and what is the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, is, of course, whether there is a concrete danger and there must be concrete evidence, or it must be possible to suggest that there will be specific quality if such a residence ban is to be imposed. That is also where we see a connection in relation to stalkers or such problems, since we have to go in and make it more likely, and that makes sense, one might say. However, it does not make sense to want to impose a general ban on residence, which could last for up to ten years, which would significantly reduce people's fundamental freedoms and the right to family life, even in a way that could jeopardise rehabilitation work. And it is the whole ambiguity of the law that is a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180652	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180704	With this bill, we are discussing another initiative from the biker gang package, gang package III, and the bill contains several elements. One of the elements of the initiative is to amend the criminal code so that, as part of a sentence for certain gang-related crimes, the courts can prohibit residence in certain places. It's done so that the convicted biker gang criminals after the release can't just return and commit crime in the same area as before. A ban on residence could be granted by the bill to persons who, for example, are subject to unconditional prison sentences for violation of the criminal code, the law on drugs or the law on weapons and explosives. So the bill has been tried to target gang-related crime. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the Danes should be able to feel safe wherever they live and move. That's why it's crucial to get rid of the gangs. The bill provides some concrete tools to the courts that can specifically prohibit people convicted of gang-related crime from staying in places where their stay is considered particularly inappropriate. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill as another part of the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party's plan to destroy the gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180832	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180840	The question to Mrs Christina Egelund is: how does Mrs Christina Egelund deal with the hearing that has come from the Institute for Human Rights, where they point out that there is a lack of clarity in the legislative proposal, in the sense that it says that a residence ban should be imposed in general, but that at the same time it is the case that, in relation to the Convention and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it must be justified in concrete terms. Among other things, it says: in the Institute for Human Rights's hearing, referring to the so-called Tomaso case, that the mere fact that a person belonged to the Mafia is an Italian matter was not sufficient reason to restrict the freedom of movement of the person concerned. On the contrary, it was necessary to establish the existence of a specific behavior which indicated that the person constituted a real and not just a theoretical threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024180948	This cannot be compared, however, because it is not the case here that the courts can impose a residence ban because you belong to a special grouping. You can be sentenced to the residence ban on the basis of certain specific actions, and it is also up to the courts to assess when it seems appropriate to measure a judgment. And to the end, i.e. the fact that this is a court decision, I think that, in relation to the legal certainty which I know the questioner is also concerned with, it is absolutely crucial. It's the courts that measure this as part of a punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181024	There is no pressure on the other question, or is it wanted? Rune Lund, please. ) Mr. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181029	However, what is the rapporteur's position on the ambiguity that we are more than one, including the Institute for Human Rights, which believes is in this draft law? So, on the one hand, it is said that, as a starting point, everyone should just be condemned to this residence ban, it may be up to 10 years, but on the other hand, it has to be done on the basis of a concrete assessment. There is obviously a problem with how to define the details of the legislation, how to understand it exactly, and if you say two things at once you blow a little and have flour in your mouth then the courts will have to interpret it here. We can then be confident about this because we know that the courts loyally interpret the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. However, it is not easy to make legislation that says one thing or the other, that is to say, one is at least at odds with the law and, on the other hand, one stays within it; after all, two things are said at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181128	After all, the questioner himself gives the answer in his question, namely that it is left to the courts to make this specific assessment, where we know that we have courts that know the Convention on Human Rights and, of course, take it into account when they issue their judgments, and that, of course, is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181149	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181153	Thank you. It's kind of the same thing. I regard the Liberal Alliance as a party that actually cares about human rights and freedoms, etc. So, in order not to ask the same question as Mr. In fact, I would like to go further and ask whether the Liberal Alliance will help in the work of the committee to dive down and clarify what the Institute of Human Rights considers to be lacking. In other words, it should be made clear that it is a prerequisite for imposing a residence ban, that the person concerned must be assumed to pose a specific forward-looking danger to public security, and that it should be specified who is subject to a residence ban under the proposed paragraph and that the proposed provision on residence bans makes it clear that a proportionality assessment must be carried out. Now it's just some of the things that are in this hearing answer that are really, really much in this hearing answer that I think we should get addressed to. So is the Liberal Alliance working to incorporate these things into the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181303	We are always involved in the work of the committee and are looking at some of the issues raised by the questioner in terms of proportionality and in relation to the human rights relationship of the draft law. I would also just like to say that it almost sounds as if the government would deliberately propose something that would be contrary to human rights. Then you know the governing parties badly, and then you know the Liberal Alliance badly. I am in favour of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I am in favour of having a legal order in Denmark that respects the international conventions to which Denmark has acceded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181345	Then I would just like to point out that it is not just the Institute for Human Rights. So there are a large number of organizations in these consultation responses that problematize these things. I am now grabbing hold of the Institute for Human Rights, because it is one of our main institutions in this area. But I hear this as confirmation that the Liberal Alliance will help ensure that these things are clarified. Then there is the second question which is also being discussed in part of the consultation answers. This is the whole thing about where we take the money and how the income requirement is being drastically changed. There are some of the answers to the question of whether this is really discrimination, because it does not apply to all citizens of Denmark, and you cannot discriminate and you cannot hide discrimination simply because people come from somewhere else and so on. Will the Liberal Alliance also help ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181437	If, by his question, the questioner believes that we will help to ensure that we change the funding of the bill as it stands, then the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181448	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next item is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024181510	Thank you. I think I'm about to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to turn this speaker's chair down after Mr. Simpson. Rune Lund. He's very tall to come after. Now it is better that we tackle the serious issues, and it is, of course, Bill L 35, which is an initiative against biker and gang crime. What is being proposed, and which has also been examined by several others up here, is, of course, that the bill will allow the courts to grant a residence ban to persons who, among other things, are: are sentenced to unconditional prison sentences and are subject to the gang order. In addition, the courts must be able to grant a residence ban to persons such as: are subject to unconditional prison sentences for criminal offences, the law on drugs or the law on weapons and explosive substances and which are linked to a group of persons who together are responsible for large-scale and serious crime when the offence is related to the sentenced person's association with the group. A residence ban should prevent convicted, primarily bikers and gang members, from moving in the municipalities or municipalities where they have committed the crime. So no doubt it's not nice people we're dealing with. I think that is clear. Yet I'm really worried about this bill. We have revolved a great deal around our relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights, about whether we can do this at all and whether there is proportionality. There, too, in my rapporteur's speech here, I would like to mention briefly the concerns raised by the Institute for Human Rights. They recommend that it be made clear that they must present a concrete forward-looking danger to public security and that they specify who is covered by the residence ban in question and that a concrete proportionality assessment should be carried out, and the legislative proposal should then clarify the criteria to be included in this balance. It is of course extremely important that we begin by saying what criteria are included in this proportionality assessment, precisely so that the judges know what they are dealing with. Then there is the whole problem, when you now have a residence ban, when you can actually get it tested. That is where we are talking about the whole area of rehabilitation, which I am also concerned about. No doubt, as I also said at the outset, that these people who practice this kind of gang crime, as we have witnessed for the last time in both Copenhagen and Aarhus, are by no means acceptable. But we have to make sure these people have an opportunity to get out of it. That is why I think it is important to clarify when the matter can be resumed. Because we know that not everyone has these gang relationships that have it for life. Some of them are short out and inside, some of them are included, because that is the grouping they have grown up with etc. After all, it is important that we also support the exit programmes that we all agree on or most in the Danish Parliament in any case agree on a good idea, so that the young people who want to get out of this will have the opportunity to get out of it. So I think it is important to clarify that. Then there's the whole financing part. I have to say that I am very concerned that we must combat biker and gang crime by tightening the economic opportunities of families. We know, of course, that the gangs in particular are luring young people from socially vulnerable areas with fast money, large cars and so on. That's why it doesn't help anyone to make further tightenings in these areas, and we're talking about significant tightenings. There we are again on the subject of European human rights. Because there are also more consultation answers and here again the Institute for Human Rights, I would like to note that we may be on the verge of a hidden discrimination here. I find that very problematic. So all in all, I find it very, very difficult to support this bill... we have it in the Alternative... and I hope that I can get the Minister's assurance that we can at least get clarification into the areas that the Institute for Human Rights and others in their hearing answers point to as ambiguities in this draft law, so that some of the elements of doubt disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182019	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182031	Mrs Zenia Stampe is the Radical Left's legal rapporteur and I am giving the speech in her absence. The bill allows the courts to grant a residence ban to persons convicted of biker or gang-related crime. The residence ban shall apply to one or more defined areas for a period of 1 to 10 years. A residence ban is a serious interference with freedom of movement, but we believe that it can be a both sensible and justified initiative if it is aimed specifically at preventing new crime. However, this requires a very concrete assessment and a balance of proportions, which unfortunately is not to be found in the proposal here. The draft law is far too far-reaching and imprecisely worded, both in terms of the geographical demarcation of the residence ban, the time perspective and the circle of persons. Is this a specific residential area, an entire municipality or possibly several municipalities? Are there months or years? And what if the situation of the person changes along the way? Should the residence ban still not be reviewed? And is this mere gang crime or crime committed in connection with gangs? The lack of demarcation points to the fact that the residence ban is not intended as a genuine preventive measure, but rather as an additional penalty, and we are concerned that such an extra penalty will have the opposite effect. Because if bikers or gang criminals are to change their course of life, they need to pull on other parts of their network, for example. family or law-abiding friends. Without this support, it is not certain that they will be able to make the change of life that is going from criminal to education or employment. An excessive ban on residence can also cause problems with regard to education and jobs, and that is why we think it is unnecessary. The second part of the bill provides for a tightening of the principle of remuneration to be fully entitled to child and young people's benefits and family allowances, and that is what has to finance gang package III. In other words, a gang package is being financed with an initiative which creates inequality and which may well create even more criminals, and we cannot support that either. So, overall, we do not support either of the parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182303	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182319	The gangs are a nuisance for Denmark. They create insecurity wherever they are housed, and with their primitive logic of violence they constantly set new low, raw and uncivilized standards of how people interact with each other. However, regardless of what action we are working on, it is always necessary for the SF to respect human rights, even when it comes to the proposal for a ban on zones. The food chain to the gangs must be squeezed together, young people must see an attractive alternative in a life outside the gangs. It must be safe to grow up in residential areas, there must be leisure jobs within reach, and internships must not just be an unrealistic dream, but a natural offer. There must be leisure and sports activities, and at the same time it must be attractive to get out of the gangs again. I want Exit programs to help undermine the gangs. It must be clear to everyone that life as a gang member in Denmark is a bad life, and SF supports the efforts against the gangs. But it is not to be paid by tripping off the most vulnerable and vulnerable children and young people. SF is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182502	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182509	I just have to get it right: so SF supports the first part of the bill on residence bans, but is against funding? If that's the case, how's Mr. Karsten Hønge then with the hearing answer, which among other things. have come from the Institute for Human Rights, where they point out a large number of specific problems with the way in which the part of the bill relating to the residence ban is designed, for example. In view of the fact that one must present a specific danger before a residence ban can be imposed, that it is unclear who is covered, that a proportionality assessment should be carried out and that what criteria should be included in that balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182553	Yes, but I have already given the answer in the rapporteur's speech, and that is that if the SF were part of the circle of parties that were to draft this law, it would be a requirement from the SF that the ban on zones should be drawn up in a way that respects human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182611	So even if this bill had to be split into two, will the SF vote against both? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182619	There is no reason to be based on some theoretical situation which is not there. The point of the SF is that if we were involved in concrete and constructive work with the other parties on the drafting of this law, we would set a condition that human rights should be respected. But we are actually in favour of a zone ban. In fact, we think it can be an excellent tool for defending the people against these raw, uncivilized gangs. But it is equally clear that we must respect human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182646	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024182700	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the positive contributions that have been made to this proposal, which will be supported by a relatively large majority in the Danish Parliament. It should not be a secret that I will do everything in my power to fight rocker-gang crime in Denmark. It must therefore be the case that law-abiding citizens are safe wherever they are. There should not be places where bikers or gang members are allowed to dominate with crime. And we must not put up with shooting incidents that endanger the lives and health of ordinary people. The government has made a clear stand against the ravages of the gangs, on the one hand, with the agreement on stronger action against bicker-gang crime, which the government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party earlier this year, and, on the other hand, with the further initiatives taken by the government in August. A very central element of that gang package is the proposal for a residence ban that we are discussing here today. This residence ban is intended to prevent bikers and gang criminals from returning after release from serving and committing crime in the area that they have previously burdened. It is therefore proposed that an unconditional prison sentence for biker-gang-related crime can be supplemented, under specific conditions, by a residence ban. The prohibition of residence implies that, for a number of years after serving, the sentenced person may not move or reside in the area where crime has been committed or where the gang is staying. It will be the courts which, in criminal proceedings, will, on a case-by-case basis, impose a residence ban together with an unconditional penalty. The courts also decide on the geographical and temporal extent of the residence ban. I do not want to hide the fact that this is a far-reaching initiative, but the crime we see bikers and gang members commit requires far-reaching solutions. We must break up the biker gang environments in this way and make the planning and execution of criminal acts more difficult. At the same time, there may be situations where dispensing from a residence ban makes sense. We have therefore put the system together so that the police can allow a person to stay in the area covered by the ban, despite a residence ban. There will be, for example: be cases where human rights result in a person being permitted to reside in the ban area in order to live with his or her minor children. There will also be cases where a residence ban comes into conflict with a legal obligation to stay in a particular place in the ban area. For example, it would be possible for the person to appear as a defendant or witness in criminal proceedings in the area of prohibition. In such a case, permission will also have to be given to fulfil this obligation. I would like to stress that the licensing system envisaged must be administered restrictively. The objective is clear: to the extent possible, bikers and gang members must be cut off from returning to the areas they have previously burdened. In addition, it is envisaged that a residence ban could be lifted by the courts if it were convicted, for example. has carried out an exit process and has thus left the criminal environment. That element helps to strike an appropriate balance for the proposal. Society closes its doors to bikers and gang criminals, but of course it is reasonable to open them again to those who saddle and live a crime-free life. The draft law also provides for a change in the principle of income for children and young people, family allowances and advance payments of child allowances. The purpose of this amendment is to tighten the current requirement for association with Denmark in order to obtain the right to full benefits. The two-year period of residence or employment in the last 10 years is proposed with the bill raised to 6 years. This tightening must finance gang package III. We have already implemented many initiatives to combat biker gang crime. This bill is another big step along the way, a very important step. But that is not the last step. In the near future, the government will put forward more legislative proposals to strengthen efforts, and the government will always be aware of the need for new initiatives. With these comments, I should like to thank you once again for your speeches, and I look forward to further consideration and to answering the questions raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183134	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183141	It is about who this bill actually covers, because it is somewhat unclear when you read the bill, and it is something that the Institute for Human Rights has also written in their hearing answer. For a stay may be prohibited for persons convicted under the gang paragraph. In addition, there should be the possibility of granting a residence ban to other persons who are sentenced to unconditional prison sentences or other criminal proceedings of deprivation of liberty for violation of the criminal code, the law on drugs or the law on arms and cargo, and then it comes into being and has a connection with a group of persons who together are responsible for large-scale and serious crime when the offence is related to the sentenced person's association with the group. It's pretty unclear who exactly it can be. I mean, there can be, for example. be a group of people who as such are not related to the biker gang environment, but such as: Just related to each other? It is, of course, very unclear who this group of people actually includes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183247	I am extremely pleased that Mr. Rune Lund wants us to punish as many people as possible, and therefore also asks who it can hit beyond bikers and gang members. It is simply made so that the ban can take place if there are other forms of organised crime. It will, of course, be up to a judge on the basis of that text, sir. Rune Lund read out whether this is a different form of organised crime, which can be anything other than biker-gang crime. That is what this is all about. It would only be gratifying if there were to be somebody besides bikers and gang members who have some sort of organized crime, they could also be hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183328	When the draft law is so unclear, one can also imagine that the courts do not understand what is actually here and then choose not to judge by it. Well, that could be an option. This really is a very unclear bill. Following on from that, I would also like to ask when it might be reviewed, that is to say that a residence ban can be reviewed. A three-year limit has been added to the draft law, but when you read the Institute for Human Rights's hearing answer, they say that if it is to follow the Convention and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it is something that we must be able to decide on on a regular basis. That is why such a quadruple definition, such as: is 3 years, does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183416	We shall now have the opportunity to answer some of these questions during the committee's debate. That is also what I heard the rapporteur of the alternative. Of course we have to make it. However, I do not believe that this is an unclear legislative proposal. I have heard today that a lot of references have been made to the Institute for Human Rights, but because they disagree or interpret in one way, this does not mean that the way the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice interpret is wrong. The Justice Department has made this bill based on what you think the framework can hold up. Surely nobody here imagines that the Ministry of Justice is presenting or producing a legislative proposal that does not comply with the conventions we have, and that is, of course, an interpretation of how far one can go. Then there's this thing about when you can pick it up. You can choose to tighten up and go out and mean your exit program, and then at least there are some very clear opportunities to get out of it. It's not like a little scout boy wears phone books. Remember who we're talking about in these laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183520	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183524	Thank you. It was just the last remark made by the Minister of Justice that made me press my hand. For now it is true that we have referred to the Institute for Human Rights, but it is not the only institution that points to the uncertainties of this bill. Well, now I'm just looking down at the Attorney General's hearing answer, which also mentions that there are a number of delimitation and evidence issues. After all, we should like to make legislation that is so good that it does not cause more confusion than clarification when cases are brought before the courts. I fully understand that the Ministry of Justice did not, of course, draft a bill to deliberately break the law, but that is why we are sending things in consultation, so as to clarify whether or not we have overlooked some things. And that is what the whole consultation system in Denmark is for. I very much hope that the Minister for Justice will take it seriously that we have to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183623	Yeah, yeah. In general terms, however, in the legislative process, it is not always the case that all consultation answers go in the same direction. I take it very seriously, and that is also why we have a committee procedure which means that if there are some of the rapporteurs in this Chamber who have some questions and say that they need to be clarified, they will ask those questions, and we will, of course, answer them clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183644	Yeah, but it was just a comment. I'll ask the questions. But I would just like to stress once again that there are not just two organisations here who think that there are flickers on how to understand things. And it is, after all, important legislation that we are talking about when we may be at odds with the Convention on Human Rights, isn't it? And that's the one we want to make sure to be inside.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183709	I don't know what the question was. There was no question, it was a comment. But I think it is an excellent and good legislative proposal that we have put forward here and I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183719	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171024183733	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 25 October 2017 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
