ParlaMint-DK_20170110130020	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Christian Langballe (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ceiling for the award of Danish citizenship). Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S) and Leif Lahn Jensen (S): Request no. F 23 (Will the Minister describe the status of the promise from the Liberal Alliance, the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party to establish income principles for child and youth benefits (the Child Check) for EU citizens, cf. the joint action •Danish welfare in Europe, the status of introducing an indexing of child and youth benefits for EU citizens and the status of negotiations on this in the context of EC Regulation No. 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and on what concrete steps has the government taken to secure an agreement on income/indexation?). Christian Juhl (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Request no. F 24 (Will the Minister provide information on the current status of the achievement of the objectives of the 2020 Working Environment Strategy, on the position to be taken on non-priority OSH areas in the strategy, on the role of the Factory Inspectorate and OSH Organisation and on the possibility of strengthening advice and training on the working environment?). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 25 (How will the Minister ensure that people who are diagnosed with dementia do not have to undergo more job clearance, resource sequences or other offers while they are struggling with the diagnosis and thoughts of the future and a family to be held together?), Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Doc. F 26 (How will the Minister ensure that persons who, for example, have a diagnosis of dementia are not to be dragged through legal proceedings and ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings when it is known in advance that they cannot be judged on the grounds of permanent insanity? ) and Query No. F 27 (How will the Minister ensure that people with dementia can have better and more coherent procedures with as few case officers as possible, and how will the Minister ensure that applications for social benefits, assistance or support are easier to access and fill?). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Question No. F 28 (How does the government intend to develop in concrete terms the ambitions of the government for so-called slimmer European cooperation?). Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and others: Question No. F 29 (What can the Minister say about the Government's ambition to avoid the EU developing a social dimension, in view of the EU's objective to do just that by developing a pillar of social rights?). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Question No. F 30 (What can the Minister say about the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the attitude of the EU and Denmark towards the conflict?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have been informed by the Prime Minister that the responsibility for central IT operations has been transferred from the Minister for Culture to the Minister for Public Innovation. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. below) According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 27 December 2016 provided that the responsibility for central IT operations, including tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to IT operation of data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, middleware and professional applications, IT workstations, service desk and user administration, and information security tasks related to the Rigsarkivet, per year. 1 January 2017 has been transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130210	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130227	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130252	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130317	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130323	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130332	The draft law as a whole shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130410	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130425	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 55 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130455	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. We will wait a moment until there is silence in the Chamber so that we can hear what the rapporteur says. We are wearing the first rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130536	Thank you. We are, as a starting point, very positive about the purpose of this bill. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that parents who lose a child as a result of an injury or failure in the health care system are compensated in a form of compensation. No compensation can compensate for the loss you have suffered when you lose a child, but as the rules are today, you have the right to financial compensation when you lose a child, just as if you lose a spouse or a parent. According to the law, however, there is a small limit of 10,000 kroner. That limit means that parents often do not receive any compensation because the financial consequences are not large enough and the financial loss is estimated to fall below the de minimis level. When a child is lost, the financial consequences may not be so great, but that is the personal consequences to a great extent. Therefore, it also seems unfair that parents rarely receive compensation, especially when there has been an error in the system. The draft law also provides that, in addition to the financial compensation, parents will be entitled to free psychological assistance. That part of the initiative is implemented separately in a notice, but is in fact the most important part of the legislative proposal. Precisely because the personal consequences of losing a child are enormous, it is crucial that parents receive the support and help they need. That is why we also think it is very positive that the possibility of financial compensation is now being increased and that free psychological assistance is being introduced so that parents find compensation and help to compensate for the huge loss they have suffered. The bill provides that in future parents will be entitled to an allowance of DKr 162 000 corresponding to the amount which can be awarded as a result of the Civil Liability Act in other cases where a person dies as a result of a claim for compensation in the health service. The Ministry suggests that cases are dealt with in the Patient Compensation Act, which today deals with and settles all claims where patients or survivors of patients in this country are injured in connection with examination, treatment or the like. As I said, no financial compensation can compensate for the loss you have suffered when you lose a child, but it is only fair and proper that parents should in future be compensated for the tragic situation in which they find themselves. The possibility of obtaining some form of financial compensation that does not only cover the small cost of funerals or similar, and the possibility of obtaining free psychological assistance makes a difference in relation to getting through a major loss. Against this background, social democracy can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130900	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110130908	Sometimes it can be really easy to write a speech that you have to deliver up here from the platform, but such a proposal that we have here today is one of those where I get a knot in my stomach and get a little pain in my soul that you have to talk about that it is a good suggestion that it is good that we can now make an allowance to parents who lose a child as a result of an injury caused by health care. I don't think there are any people who can understand what it's like for those parents who lose a child. And when it is because of an injury in the health care system, I certainly do not think it is something you come across again, but is something you unfortunately have to live with for the rest of your life. I remember some of the cases that we had up here in Parliament and discussed I remember asking questions about a case where a little boy swallowed a battery and where the doctors missed it and didn't treat him. Unfortunately, Christian died because he was not treated. At that time it was also up: why can one not get a signal, an apology from the society that has actually caused the boy to die? At that time, many of us in the parties also wondered that we actually had legislation which allowed us to get some help at the funeral, but that otherwise there was no compensation • not because the compensation could do something, as some of the parents also said, but it was a signal. At the same time, there are also financial burdens, on top of the loss of a child. After all, many of these parents cannot go to work the day after they put their child to the grave. It's gonna be a while. That's why I think it's time we finally got this law. And as I say, it is a law that I hope we will be using as little as possible, but it is good that it is there and that we will ensure that, in cases like the unfortunately 5-10 incidents we have seen over the last few years, something is at least added to the parents who are in this situation. It will never be a help that can be a Band-Aid on the wound at all but I think that the very fact that you get the compensation and that you can also get free psychological help, maybe it can just make it a little easier to be able to get started with the life you also have afterwards. So in the Danish People's Party we support the proposal, but as I said, I hope we do not see the law being used too often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131219	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131226	Thank you. Today, we are the first-reading law amending the law on access to healthcare for claims and claims. The bill is part of the 2017 Finance Act and provides for the possibility of a compensation to parents who have lost a child as a result of health injuries, as well as offers of free psychological assistance. Losing a child is an almost unbearable loss, and no matter how we as a society act after the loss of a child, especially if this has been caused by damage caused by the Danish health care system, by Danish health professionals, we will never be able to replace the loss of a human life. However, since we choose to change the legislation and allow us to pay compensation, it is partly because access to compensation today is limited by a small limit of DKK 10,000. It sounds so trivial when you say that the financial loss of losing a child is merely a funeral cost, and that talking about crowns and ears in this context may seem quite wrong, because we know that the parents who lose their child must live with the loss and grief of the rest of their lives. It can be a heavy burden to bear, and that is why I and we in the Left are genuinely pleased that with the bill here we allow parents to have free access to psychological care and hopefully in the long term can get their lives shaped so that it makes sense despite the loss of a child. Against this background, the Left can support the draft law as it has been put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131434	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131441	Thank you. Overall, we are in the Enhedslisten positive towards L 99. As has already been mentioned, it is the intention of the draft law that parents who have lost a child as a result of compensation for damage caused to health care should be guaranteed some financial compensation. This means that parents receive an allowance of 162,000 kroner. the level of 2017 in cases where the Patient Compensation has recognised the injury in question as being eligible for compensation in accordance with the rules laid down in the Complaints and Compensation Act. We find it very sympathetic to try to bring to the attention of parents who are in the deeply unhappy situation of having lost a child because of an injury caused in the health care system by paying some kind of compensation, although it is by no means possible to compensate financially for the loss suffered by parents. That also raises ethical and legal issues, because in general it is always questionable that human life should be quantified in money. However, I would like to say that, in relation to this proposal, it is positive that the overall compensation is now going away from the fact that it is only about lost professional capacity, as it was a very unpleasant and very one-track way of bringing up human life. However, there are some things in this proposal that seem a little hasty and somewhat ill-thought-out. There are several of the issues raised, for example: on why it is only damage that has been caused directly by treatment and investigation and not as a result of damage caused by medicinal products, and it is rejected by the fact that it is not provided for in the Finance Act. It doesn't seem very well thought out. However, where the proposal seems most ill-considered, it is in relation to the problem of birth defects. The bill provides that compensation may be paid only if the child is born alive and the midwife or others have made a birth declaration. This seems to be a rather technical distinction, because it is no secret that there is a great deal of urgency in hospitals in general and in particular in the maternity wards. It is also well known that increased busyness increases the risk of mistreatment and in the quite unhappy cases can lead to fatal damage. So we have to ask: what about children who die during pregnancy after 22 weeks of pregnancy because of inadequate treatment? They will not be covered by this system now, even though there is still a lack of treatment by the health service or damage caused by the health care system. In particular, however, it seems inappropriate to set the limit in relation to being covered by the birth notification scheme, because it is well known that several hours and sometimes days may pass from birth to birth notification. It may be due to the busyness of the maternity ward, or it may be because there may be difficulty in providing the relevant information. Therefore, it seems immediately unreasonable that in such cases parents will be prevented from receiving compensation. That is also something that the patient's replacement has mentioned in their hearing reply, which is why I would like to announce now that Enhedslisten will be tabling an amendment proposing that the point of intersection should be moved in order to be covered by the compensation to include parents of children who are born dead after 22 weeks due to damage caused to health care, so that they are also covered by the scheme, or at least that the parents of a living child should not wait for a birth declaration to be made in order to be entitled to compensation. We are in the Enhedslisten of the view that the intention to help parents who are in the deeply unhappy situation of losing a child as a result of damage caused by health care, by paying compensation, is positive. It is a pity that the proposal seems ill-thought-out in some areas and could therefore create unfair discrimination when it was relatively uncomplicated to remedy several of these shortcomings. We will, of course, try to see if we can help to improve the situation through the committee procedure, but as the proposal now stands, it is still a clear improvement in the current legal situation. We can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131905	Thank you. Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110131910	Thank you. Losing a child must be one of the most horrible things an adult can experience. It is a loss that cannot be compared and a loss that cannot be compensated by a sum of money. Nevertheless, it has been found politically justified to introduce a right to compensation for parents who have lost a child as a result of damage to health care. It can in no way compensate the loss of the child, but should be seen only as an attempt to strengthen the rights of the affected parents who, in addition to the symbolic compensation of the 162,000 DKK. will be able to provide free psychological assistance. Today, parents who lose a child as a result of health injuries have no right to compensation. The bill will equate these parents with certain other incidents in which a person dies as a result of a claim for damages. The Liberal Alliance considers this to be a very sensible approach and a good progress. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132029	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132039	The alternative is very much in agreement with the previous rapporteurs. Losing a child must be one of the most tragic, sad and unhappy incidents one can experience as a human being, especially when it is caused by damage to health care. I would therefore not like to go into this draft law very much, because I think that the previous rapporteurs have done very well. However, like the Enhedslisten, I would like to mention that we would also like to question why this does not apply to damage caused by medicines and medicines. But overall, in the alternative, we believe that this is a sensible approach, and we are positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132135	Thank you. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132142	Thank you. This proposal is about very few people, but for the people it is about, it fills the whole world. For it must be the most horrible thing to experience, to lose your child and then even do it as a result of an injury in the health care system. After all, we can never do anything about the pain and grief in which the families are, with the money we drop, but I still think that it is a step in the right direction that we are being opened up for free psychological assistance and that we can get compensation, and that is why I would like to use the opportunity to recognise that the government and the support party are taking this initiative. There is, of course, a lot in the Finance Act that we disagree with, but I think this is a good initiative and the Radical Left would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132243	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132250	The SF agrees with the other rapporteurs that this is a good proposal. At least I myself often as a parent thought that I can handle anything if only my children can be spared from illness and injury. And if the damage is even caused by the health care that was supposed to help us, it is hardly going to bear. We cannot replace the loss of a child, but we can recognise the burden of the parents. We therefore find it positive that the government wants to ensure that parents who lose a child because of injuries caused during treatment or study in the health care system are able to obtain financial compensation. We are also pleased that the compensation is not just a measure, but that it is followed by free psychological assistance for parents who have experienced the loss of a child under 18 years of age. However, like the Patient Association and other parties, I am puzzled that stillborn children appear not to be covered by the draft law in the current wording. I therefore believe that in a future committee we should look at how these parents will be able to receive compensation if their child dies during childbirth because of the ill-treatment of health care. The bill is sympathetic, and although, as I have said, one can never replace the loss of a child or in itself prove it, the SF can support the proposal, which, after all, is a recognition of the loss of parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132425	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132435	There is no amount that can remove the great sorrow and pain of losing your child. When this happens as a result of medical failure or failure in health care, we should recognise the loss and responsibility. This can be done by providing some compensation for the loss as well as by providing free psychological assistance as support for the processing of grief and loss. In a statement from the Patient Compensation of cases in which children under the age of 18 have died as a result of an injury caused by examination, treatment or the like in health care during the period 2007 to 2015, it is estimated that 5-10 parents will lose a child annually due to health injuries. It is deeply tragic for those parents! The legal position for parents today is that they are often not entitled to compensation for the loss, as the financial loss of losing a child is not large enough to exceed the de minimis limit for compensation payments. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that this is unfair. In the bill here from the Minister, parents are entitled to an allowance of DKK 162,000. in cases where the patient's replacement has recognised the injury in question as being eligible for compensation. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill, which we find a modest patch on the wound of the families who are in the unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132616	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132630	Thank you for your comments on the bill. I fully agree with both the words and the expressions used by many rapporteurs in relation to how unbearable and tragic it is to lose a child. After all, this bill is by no means about trying to make the value of a human life into money or appreciate what it is like to lose a child. It is a question of ending the injustice and injustice that many parents have felt, that if you lost your spouse or you lost a partner or another elderly person, there was financial compensation, but not if you were talking about the loss of a child, something of the most unbearable that you can experience, some of the things that cause your whole world picture to collapse, because as parents we all expect our children to survive. You have dreams, you have expectations on their behalf. It's so intrusive in a family's life. There was a feeling that although the treatment injuries were subsequently recognised, there was a distinction here between whether it was a child or an adult person who had a dependent responsibility and who had a loss of work in terms of lost earnings and that we there had a dividing line. That is why we have also chosen to say with the bill that this is not about raising the price of a human life; it is about both through psychological assistance, but also through the financial compensation provided by the bill, ensuring that these parents are given an opportunity to move forward and feel that they also have the same right to compensation and compensation when there has been a treatment damage in our health system. The rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, has referred to some families out there, and I have also heard earlier about the Mogens and Gitte Sørensen couple from Stouby, who lost a child in the treatment system and who I know have been one of the parents who have been in contact with some of my colleagues in relation to the situation they are facing, as parents, but who have also wanted other parents not to be in the same situation afterwards. That is why this bill does not benefit the parents we have mentioned, but it ensures that there are no other parents who can find themselves in the same situation, that is to say that they are recognised as having a treatment injury, but that a distinction is made between an elderly person or a child who had been lost. Some questions have been asked here from the platform, and it has also been announced that some more will be asked during the legislative procedure. I shall, of course, look forward to them being answered and clarified. Fortunately, this is not a large group, fortunately. For these are tragic matters that we are talking about, but it is of course also important that we get clarification about some of the issues that may be, in relation to why the legislative proposal is limited as it is, and I hope that we can respond adequately to them in the legislative process, so that we can hopefully also get the support of all parties for a legislative proposal which is not an economic one, that is, not so much, but which, by symbol value, means a great deal to the parents, for the families to which it relates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132946	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110132958	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110133028	Thank you for the floor. We in the Social Democratic Party can support this bill, which is a collection of a number of adjustments to the Danish primary school reform, which we support, and which must ensure that all young people have a good start in life. Of course, we support the changes that are needed to give the school boards more muscle and to give them the opportunity to comment on the length of school day, just as we also support the other elements of this law. But what matters most to us, and which I would like to highlight today, is the opportunity for parents to have a legal right to have their children tested for dyslexia. It is our assessment that the vast majority of municipalities do very well, doing a very good job for dyslexic children, but there are still black spots on the map. Now the parents have the opportunity to test their children. We warmly support this, just as we also support the opportunities that exist for free municipalities to continue their free municipalities' attempts at Gladsaxe, Gentofte and Odsherred. So all in all, we think this is a good collection of the first two years after the reform of primary school, and we hope that we can agree broadly in the Folketing that what the primary school needs now is calmness, stability, broad political support and not the major revolutions. But, of course, we should not end up in a situation where there are obvious things in the area of primary education that need to be changed, but which cannot be changed. So we support the adjustments proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110133211	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110133232	Thank you, President. Social democracy went a little fast. It's all good from the school sea that's in this bill. I don't want to go into it all, but part of it. Inclusion is basically the reason why we have these adjustments at all. And there was a group of experts left in May 2016 with a large number of recommendations, most of which could be implemented without legislative changes. This is just a small change of law, so it is said today that it is the headmaster's responsibility to ensure that all pupils thrive and are well. For the Danish People's Party, of course, this is important, and we can easily agree with that. We also think it is excellent that the school board gets a little more muscles, so it gets involved in scheduling. It has been a huge problem with the long school days, which the Danish People's Party has helped to lift in the political discussion. Of course, the head of the school must listen, but does not have to do as the school board says, but we expect them to listen to the school boards in the schools, of course. Then, of course, there are also some increased opportunities for external teachers, which is also good, in some defined courses. We have offers of third-class dyslexic tests, and parents get a legal claim from fourth grade, and we think that is excellent. On the other hand, there are some problems in the section on temporary workers without teacher or teacher training. After all, the reason why this has been included is that the Ombudsman recommended that the practice should be brought into force legally. It's probably the most controversial part. What we in the Danish People's Party fear and fear throughout the process is that you suddenly make this a barn gate for the municipalities, so you can hire even more without a teacher's education or a teacher's education as a background. We understand, of course, that you can have recruitment problems in the municipalities. We know that this is a problem and that is one of the reasons why you have employees in school without appropriate training. That is why we are actually going to propose, and I hope the Minister is listening, that there will be a follow-up to the consequences of the law. It could be done every year, but I would really like to leave that to the Minister. In any case, we would ask the Minister to consider whether she thinks this is a good idea. The second, which may be controversial, is, of course, recognition of foreign education courses. We are aware that recognition is already taking place in the area of teachers, and that is why it makes good sense, of course, to do so in the area of teaching. What we are aware of is that the Danish Agency for Research and Education may require an adaptation period or aptitude test for applicants for schools with foreign backgrounds. In relation to those tests and the probationary period, we would really like to know how often and often this happens. So, how often does the board get the opportunity to give the candidate a probationary period or to ask for an aptitude test? I do not know whether the Minister has any answer to this at all. If the Minister isn't allowed to get those answers at some point. We also have some doubts about what to say, the extent of it. Those that will concern are applicants from the European Union, from the European Economic Area and then from third countries. In fact, we would like to see a detailed description of which countries it might be, what is meant by third countries? And if the Minister can't answer from the platform, I assume the Ministry will be helpful. Then there is an excellent little thing, namely, that teachers' ability to be exempt from teaching Christian knowledge is abolished. In the consultations there were different requirements for this possibility to be extended to other professional groups. There, the Danish Teachers' Association proposed to repeal that rule, and we support it in the Danish People's Party. And then, of course, there are some free municipalities attempts that will continue with this bill. So we just need the Minister to answer some questions before we finally take a position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110133739	Thank you. There's no questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110133750	Thank you for the floor. As the Left rapporteur, Anni Matthiesen, is unfortunately prevented from being present in the Chamber today, I have promised to read the speech on her behalf. Today we are discussing L 109, and in this connection I should like to say that the Left will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. The proposal is a follow-up to the reform of primary schools, which we have agreed on in a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament in 2013. In addition, the bill is a follow-up to the inclusion review launched by our former Left Government in 2015 and where a group of experts made a number of recommendations in spring 2016 to ensure that as many students as possible become part of the general environment, develop professionally and thrive. These recommendations are now clarified by the proposal in the legislative text itself. The bill also follows up on the 2016 rate pool agreement in part of the social and domestic area and a recommendation from the Danish Parliament Ombudsman to clarify the law so that the current practice of using temporary workers without teacher or teacher training will be reflected in the law. The Left of course believes that it is of the utmost importance that we have a primary school where children thrive and experience an inspiring and well-functioning learning environment. We in the Left have had a sharp focus on those parts of the reform that have not worked as intended, so that we achieve the objectives that were the original intentions of the reform. The draft law we are discussing today is precisely an indication that we are following very closely the implementation of the reform of primary schools and developments in the area of inclusion. The draft law also strengthens the possibility for the school boards to increase involvement by now allowing the boards to comment on school schedules prior to school start. In this way, even greater local involvement is ensured. The open school is also ensured even more by extending the text to enable the teaching tasks at the school to be carried out also by employees and volunteers from educational institutions, organisations and companies in a limited learning process. Another element of the bill is the implementation of the wage-pool agreement in the social and domestic field, where we agreed to make the interpretation of dyslexia a legal requirement. dyslexia is the most common cause of long-standing difficulties in reading and writing, which is why it is also crucial that we take action as early as possible. Too many people throughout their lives have had great difficulty in reading and writing, and this not only persecutes them during school years but often even when they start working. Therefore, it is very crucial that we become better at discovering dyslexia early in school, and initiate with help - yes, the sooner, the better. That is why I am very pleased that this bill obliges heads of schools to offer pupils with reading difficulties and signs of dyslexia, in consultation with parents and pupils, a third-class dyslexia test. At the same time, parents are entitled to a dyslexic test in the child's school cycle from March in the 4th grade. In this way we will hopefully be able to help those children who are struggling with reading difficulties so that they will have a better basis for achieving better results and more success during their schooling. The bill here is another step in the right direction to make a good primary school even better. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134126	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134134	Thank you. With the bill here, the government is proposing a number of different changes to the primary school law that we in the Enhedslisten can support. We have been very pleased that the former Minister for Education, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, immediately after her accession as Minister, launched a review of the inclusion legislation from 2012. This is legislation that we believe has given and continues to cause quite major problems in primary school, and it is our view that the objective of 96 per cent. of the pupils were to be included in the ordinary primary school, was an expression of a completely mechanical and unusable approach to strengthening the inclusion of pupils in primary school. And roughly the same can be said of the rule that was introduced concerning reference to 9 hours of special education. We have therefore found it very good that the 96-percent target was put in place, emphasising that the individual child should now be taken as a starting point rather than as a percentage target and that it is good that it is now followed by changes that specify that the teaching should be organized so that it also takes into account the social development of all pupils and thrives in the professional and social communities of the school. I would say that this is probably a reflection which already characterizes the teaching and influences many teachers' perceptions of what is going to happen in school, but it is good that we get that clarified. With regard to the proposal to extend access to external teachers so that they can not only teach under the ordinary guest teacher scheme but can also to a limited extent carry out teaching tasks in the subjects and compulsory subjects of the primary school, I must confess that we can have concerns, in other words, about ensuring the quality of the teaching. However, I note that a number of clarifications have been made in relation to the original draft law, such as this one. has been requested by the Danish Teacher's Association in their hearing response. And these clarifications clarify the responsibility for the individual external teacher having sufficient teaching skills and being able to achieve the objectives of the subjects. In this way, we believe that there is a response and a fine approach to the original draft legislative proposal. We think it is very good that there is a tightening up of the possibilities for identifying as early as possible whether students' reading difficulties may be due to dyslexia, and we are pleased that parents now also have a genuine legal requirement to carry out a dyslexia test for the child. Unfortunately, there is no doubt about that, at least I have no doubt that the effort in relation to dyslexic pupils in some schools is not good enough. If you go in and look at the latest report from the Complaints Board for Special Education, it jumps dramatically into the face that the municipalities were only successful in 14 per cent. of the cases brought before the Board of Appeal and that the decisions of the municipalities were taken in 68 per cent. of the cases. One might ask whether it is a gigantic amount of cases that are being brought. No, it's not. However, this trend is so marked that it is only one place between one and six cases and one in seven cases that the municipalities actually decide in accordance with the law. This is a gigantic problem, so we would say that it is really positive that this change is being made. It is really important that we also take the initiative to ensure that schools are even more in line with legislation, or perhaps even to a much greater extent. The bill also includes an increased involvement of school boards in determining pupils' schedules. We think it is a real development to strengthen the influence of parents on the management of the school, and we support the proposal that in future the school board should have submitted the school's schedules and the framework for the changing schedules for opinion. Having said that, I would also like to say that we in the Enhedslist do not agree with the recitals in the legislative notes that parents' growing dissatisfaction with the long school days is largely due to local problems in implementing the reform. I have no doubt that there are also local problems, but I think that a great many parents are basically unhappy with having weary children home from a long day of school, when the results of the last few hours have been far too small. However, those comments on the draft law do nothing but believe that the concrete proposal for a change is sensible. So all in all I have not gone into all the details of the proposal I do not think it is gigantic progress, but I think it is a number of minor improvements to the primary school law, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134659	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134710	Bill No. L 109 deals with a number of amendments to the law on primary education and the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education. A whole series of amendments have been mentioned and many things have been said about the good things about them, which I shall not repeat. I take note of the fact that the possibility of implementing the principle of inclusion is improved and the responsibility of school boards extended. All these small but good changes come from the principle of learning from your experience. It is a principle that there are no laws or regulations against, but often it happens that the Folketing refrains from using the option. However, both because the changes are sensible and because they endorse the principle of becoming wiser and learning from its experience, the Liberal Alliance can of course endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134814	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110134823	Thank you for that, President. In the series of parties welcoming this bill, we must also report on the side of the alternative. The elements included in the bill have been mentioned, and I am not going to repeat everything either, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said. I would like to stress what we consider to be very positive about it and then also mention some considerations which we think might be different. We are very pleased with the element of this bill, which is that you can get external teachers into primary school to a greater extent. And there, of course, you can have the concern of: Well are these external teachers so skilled enough in relation to the educational work? That is one of the points raised by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But I think that some of what we very much miss in the Danish primary school today is that we bring in some enthusiastic teachers who know their area or profession whether it is a craftsmanship or whether it is a theoretical subject so well and so committed and involved in it that it rubs off on the children. And that is one of the things that external teachers can do because they come from something that they are experts in, and they bring into primary school. The whole element, the whole idea of bringing the community into primary school this way, we think we're absolutely right. So much more of that, and thank the Minister and the Ministry for including that element in this bill. Of course, we are also pleased that you choose to involve the school boards somewhat more. It is no secret that the alternative wants a freer primary school understood as a primary school with greater self-determination, which lies largely with the school boards. We would have liked to have gone further. Instead of only having the right as a school board to comment on the school schedules established by the management, we want and would like to suggest that it is the school board that, it can be said, as a whole, is those who actually lay down these schedules and also have a greater influence on the school's everyday life and the structural framework for the school, that is to say both the school schedules and, of course, also the length of school time. It could be that one should also look at: Who is it that sits on the school boards? Should there be any representatives from the surrounding community who can help ensure that the work that is in the schools has this anchoring in the community, which many people are calling for, and which we are also calling for in the alternative? We shall look at this with great goodwill. One might also consider whether one should say that pupils should have some form of fee or remuneration or something for their work on boards and on student councils in schools. We need the students to come back and take ownership of their own school. Many students feel that they lack influence. They find it difficult to influence, because the things that are being discussed in, for example. The student council, often is what color should be on the walls down in the gym. So we need a great deal of justice in relation to the important decisions of the primary school: how do we get the students involved? How do we get teachers involved? How do we get the educators involved? And I would like to call for that process to also look at what Danske Skoleelever is also asking in their hearing answer whether one should consider some kind of carrot, remuneration, something like that. Finally, I would like to say that, as I said, we also have some critical perspectives. It's not so much in relation to what is the content of this bill, but it's basically everything that doesn't say, namely about the whole layer of fat, everything that is called target management, the mandatory national tests... everything that the schools still get from above, from the municipal councils that get it from the ministry. We need to get rid of that. We must remove the entire fat layer between the municipal administration and the school board and the management of the schools. Let's do a lot of volunteering out there and say to the schools: To the extent you want to have national tests at your school, you do it, and to the extent you want to measure it and that, you do it. But it should not be a requirement that comes from above, because that is what makes schools very much feel completely bound today and really does not have room for what they see as their real task. So that should be my call here from the platform today: let us go further next time. And, of course, we can support the bill as it stands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110135251	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110135302	Thank you. I am very, very pleased with the legislative proposal we are discussing here today, and I have to say for the record that the background to the legislative proposal is, of course, the inclusion review initiated by the previous government. I would like to sign here from the platform for the fine work carried out by the inclusion review expert group and the conclusions it has drawn and which the Radical Left fully endorses, namely that we are moving away from a target figure for inclusion and replacing it with a qualitative purpose for the work of the primary school. Therefore, allow me to quote a rather large piece from the draft bill's comments, starting at the bottom of page 6, right column, where it says: "Even though it already follows from the primary school law that the primary school must be a place marked by an inclusive learning environment, understood as professional and social communities, where pupils develop professionally and versatilely, including socially, and thrive, it is considered appropriate, by law, to emphasize to the entire primary school the municipal councils, the school administration, school managers, school boards, employees, pupils and parents and the surrounding community that the primary school should be a place where all pupils develop professionally and versatilely, including socially, and thrive in the academic and social communities of the school. • Such an environment is of course present when the student participates in the community both professionally, socially and culturally. It is present when the student is part of the community, i.e. both cooperative and friendly relations with other pupils and feels that he is part of the community. This ensures that you participate in the community. This can hardly be said better and more precisely and more comprehensively than it is being done here. And I continue: to support the creation of professional and social communities and thus an inclusive learning environment in schools, it is proposed that school boards be required to develop principles for the school's work on the development of pupils in the academic and social communities of the school. ▪ All this could have been written at home at my desk, it is not, but I have been in the discussion that has led to this, and I would like to acknowledge that we have made it so far that we have done so with target numbers and that we are looking at the qualitative association and community in the primary school, applicable to all the school boards, beyond this power they have been given about the principles, to comment on the school schedules before school starts and on the framework for schedules that change during the school year. And to that extent I agree with some of the rapporteurs who have already been up here and say that it may not be enough with the authority of the school board. However, as one of those who helped to make the legislation in 1989, when we abolished the school boards and introduced the school boards, I would like to stress that this draft law has found it appropriate to use the same wording as was used in 1989 when it was a Parliament which was strongly inspired by the work of the boards of the free schools. Therefore, there is also a basis for some to point to the link between the way we do it in the primary school and the way we do it in the free schools. At the time, however, it was formulated as follows: the School Board, together with the head of the school, is responsible for the management of the individual primary school. It's actually a pretty far-reaching management description. So the school board is not an indifferent body in the primary school, it actually plays a very important role and, together with the head of the school, is to manage the primary school. So with that, I would like to stress that there are a lot of good elements in this bill. There are also things that I do not have time to discuss, but there are just two things I should like to mention for the sake of order. The legal requirement for dyslexic tests is something that many parties work with, including my own party has been working and arguing for it for quite a number of years. Now it's gonna be something. We are very pleased with that. The second point is the comments on the concept of external teachers, and there I agree with the concern expressed by some rapporteurs, and I believe that we must keep a very close eye on and follow up developments. For it is absolutely crucial, as the bill also says, that the manager is responsible for ensuring that education meets the requirements of the primary school law and that it is a teacher at the school who is responsible for achieving the objectives of the subjects. These are, of course, some stop buttons that are being put in order to avoid undermining the professionalism of the primary school and showing that the primary school is living up to the intentions of the politicians in relation to the law on primary school in general. So after all this has been said, I just want to emphasise that there are a lot of good tactics in this bill, and I would also like to sign the Minister that we have come as far as we are, and I look forward to continuing the cooperation and the developments that have been set up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110135809	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110135818	Thank you. Overall, it is an adjustment to the reform of primary schools that we are dealing with first today, and I think that is worth noting because there has been a lot of talk about whether there is a need for adjustments and whether there can be any adjustments to a reform at all. There we show today that when something makes sense to change, we change it. The things that lie in this proposal for change are quite reasonable. A great many things have been said about this, and I would like to emphasise three issues in particular. The first one is this one with dyslexia. The proposal stipulates that pupils with difficulties in reading can have a dyslexic test, and at the same time parents are entitled to a dyslexic test for their children in the 4th grade. It's really important. There are too many children who leave the Danish primary school or who have gone too far into the classes of the Danish primary school, without having been discovered that they were dyslexic. And that's terrible for those kids, because they're going to think: what's wrong with me, or why can't I keep up here, or what's happening? And there is no such natural explanation, but if they had gotten the right tools from the start, they could have got a much better start to their school life with many more victories. Therefore, this is a really important step to ensure that the good efforts that are taking place in many places locally will now be spread across the country. It is also something that many parties in the Folketing have been fighting for for some time. I think it is a good solution that has been reached. I would like to pay particular tribute to the Social Democracy and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye for their work exactly with this. Then there is a proposal to increase the influence of school boards on school schedules in the sense that they are at least being heard now. I think that's important. After the 11⁄2 years of sitting in this Parliament, there has been a lot of discussion about these schedules and why they look like they do, it can only make sense that the parents of the children also have the opportunity to comment on that part. I hope that will also mean that we can have more balanced schedules with greater regard for children's leisure time. Having said that, the hearings say that it would have been desirable to see more freedom given to school boards for example. to change school days a little shorter if, on the other hand, there were several hours with two adults. We have come a long way since we started this parliamentary assembly or since we wrote our shepherd's letters after the election that you could change the day shorter. I think there were 79 schools that used it at the beginning; now it is in over half of the country's municipalities. But we can go even further; we can put that trust out and believe that it can be managed in the individual schools. One last thing that I would like to emphasise is, as has also been said a lot about, this inclusion, where you now change course in the sense that you are based on educational inclusion and not on percentage inclusion. As a socialist, I have always fought for inclusion both in the school system and, as such, in our society, but this should not happen because we have to include 96 per cent precisely. in a school offer. No one has the idea of making sense at each school. It must always be based on the child, and it begins to do so when you make the changes we are making today and when you abolish the percentage. So it's really good. In addition, there are a number of other amendments which have also been outlined by the previous rapporteurs and which we also support. Having said that, I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I believe this should be the first of several adjustments. I believe that because I think there is a cry for help in making adjustments in schools. I understand that there are several parties who believe that there is a need for tranquillity about primary school. I feel that it is a bad idea to let them suffer quietly, so I would really like to urge that, if you believe that you can create peace, this should be done through new adjustments like these adjustments. So an adjustment could be to give the school boards more freedom to change school days shorter to have several hours with two adults. Something else could also be like taking it into account when 84 per cent. of all children in Denmark say that their school day is too long, and then see if there is anything we need to change there. It could also be that when the employees around the schools say that they are drowning in documentation and bureaucracy, we should continue to work on how to free them, how to free them. I think we have a common interest in that. Finally, what we also have a consultation about in just a few minutes I think it makes great sense to look at changing the class size ceiling so that the class size ceiling is not 28 students, but 24 students, because the class sizes are rising and rising in Denmark right now. But it's a good start with this adjustment that shows that you can make adjustments when it makes sense, and SF will fight for that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140325	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140331	SF has started New Year with a number of proposals in the media. My question is actually very brief: is the SF leaving the school circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140349	No, we're not. We have had the approach from the beginning that we thought there was a side of the Parliamentary Chamber that was like saying: everything with the reform is good, it just needs to be calm and at least 10 years; then we know if it works. And then there was another part of the Chamber that said: roll back the whole reform. We believe that much of the goods on which the reform is based, namely reducing the importance of the social background and starting from professionalism, increasing cooperation between teachers and educators, working for more movement and creating an open school, are thoughts that are fantastic and that we still have to contribute to. But we can also see that there are problems out there, and these are some of them we are trying to solve. And how often does it actually happen to make such major reforms as the reform of the primary school, without even stopping and asking: is there something we have to do? This is also one of the things we have tried to propose here after New Year's, for example. with a new class ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140438	So the SF stays in the conciliation circle and is behind the reform. But why doesn't the SF do something like the rest of us, namely bring up the changes in the school circle so that we can talk about them, instead of sending a few lines to a journalist who then calls the rapporteurs and reads and asks what the rapporteurs think of it? Is that not a better way to do this, or is it more about signals to a hinterland that is dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140510	First of all, I have already asked the Minister for the things I have mentioned to come up at the next meeting, and I have also asked that there should be a meeting in the public school circle. So yes, it certainly comes up in the public school circle, where I hope that the Danish People's Party, which has also previously said that you want to listen to the parents and students, can help to see if there is a need for adjustments. Then I would just like to say that I am, for example. In the past, it has been said that you would need § 16B more so that it would be easier to change the hours and make the days shorter, so there would be several hours with two adults. When I was elected, 79 schools used it. Now more than half of the country's municipalities are working on it. So I actually think that we are also working pragmatically on solutions that can be done. That's why we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140550	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140559	We have an extremely well-functioning primary school in Denmark, which we can be proud of. We have committed staff and school boards all over the country, which place an incredibly large and commendable commitment to the day-to-day running of schools. For two years now, we have been testing the new reform of the primary school, and it is therefore good that the draft law provides us with a service review of the reform. Conservatives can therefore support the bill in its entirety. Conservatives have always advocated that our children should be offered qualified education, and it is no secret that we may be more concerned with quality than with quantity. We therefore look with some concern at the problems of obtaining qualified staff in schools and at the increasing use of non-skilled staff for teaching. Conservatives are therefore pleased that the draft law states that the Ministry will closely follow the use of unqualified temporary employment cover. I therefore hope that at some point the Minister will explain in detail what the situation is in the country and that we will not move into a development where the use of non-qualified teachers is more the rule than the exception. After all, it seems paradoxical that we have extended the school day at a time of lack of teachers or equivalent and thus created a problem for ourselves in providing the right teaching. Conservatives are therefore satisfied that the Parliamentary Ombudsman's position is now written into the law and that we can follow the issue closely in the coming time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140757	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110140803	Thank you for your comments, and thank you to Parliament's parties for the support for the bill that we are putting forward today. Over the front door of Brenderup Realskole on Funen a stone with the inscription is walled in: Knowledge is power. And I think that is absolutely crucial when we talk about what primary school can and must do. When children and young people become skilled in science, reading and mathematics, they get a foundation that is absolutely crucial to their further life. Knowledge gives power to act on an enlightened basis and to take responsibility for one's own life. It is now 2 years since the reform of the primary school came into force, and municipalities and schools are well in the process of implementing the various elements of the reform. In some places things are going well, in others there are challenges to make it work. Over the last two years, it has become apparent that there are places in the primary school law which can be adjusted to follow up the legislation implemented in the context of the reform of primary school, and that is the purpose of this draft law. It is important for schools, teachers, pupils, managers and parents to have peace of mind and opportunity to create and strengthen locally a strong and professionally based education with a focus on education and knowledge. The bill acts among other things. That the parents' boards should have more influence. It is about better inclusion and about extended opportunities to draw on external teachers. I don't want to go through all the elements, but I want to make some important cuts. The very thing about involving parents through school boards is very central, because the school is the school of the people. The school is the school of pupils, teachers, and parents, and so parents also need to have more to say in their children's schools. It is quite natural, and it gives a local freedom to create a good and strong primary school. It is clear from the government basis for a freer, richer and more secure Denmark that the government wants more involvement of the school board when planning pupils' schedules. I don't want it to go on wishing. The proposal that school boards should be given the opportunity to express their views on school schedules gives individual school boards a greater influence on how school days should be organized at their children's school. Then there's the inclusion. I would also like to add a few words to that part of the bill, because we need to have a better inclusion in primary school, and we need to ensure that as many pupils as possible have a normal school life and thrive and develop professionally. In November 2015, a group of experts was set up to look at the state of integration in the primary school. The expert group was asked to make recommendations on how to improve the work on inclusion. It is these recommendations that the bill follows up. The expert group has assessed that the primary school is a good foundation for the work on inclusion. But they also recommend that the primary school law be amended to make it clearer from the law that the primary school must be characterised by an inclusive environment, a space in which all pupils develop professionally and socially. They also propose that school boards set out the principles for the school's work on inclusive learning environments. This should help to support the individual schools' work on inclusion. However, the vast majority of the expert group's recommendations relate to initiatives which are not about legislative changes. It is also clear from the government's constitution that the government wants to extend access to the involvement of external teachers from e.g. companies and organisations. This also allows the bill to enable the public schools to involve the surrounding society even more in the teaching process in future when it makes sense. Schools can, for example: make use of teachers at the local vocational school or from local companies. In this way, students can gain more insight into what opportunities are available for them after primary school, and external teachers can make the teaching more varied. However, it will and must always be the teachers who bear the responsibility for teaching in primary school, and the bill does not change that. Finally, I would like to highlight the legal requirement for dyslexic testing, which is a very important tool for parents who have children who are dyslexic and need clarification. With regard to the comments made by my colleagues on temporary work, I would like to say that this is, of course, an area that I am aware of. It is an important part of the quality of primary school that a high proportion of teachers have both professional and didactic training. Of course, in relation to DF's question in particular, I would like to follow up more specific questions in a written process. The Folkeskole must be a place where students, teachers, educators and parents are well and feel security, commitment and co-ownership. It is the primary task of the primary school to provide good education and to provide the students with knowledge and education. The school is a gift we give to the children, which is why it is so important to ensure that the primary school has good conditions and not least freedom. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141346	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141352	It is quite all right that the Minister needs the help of the Ministry in answering more factual questions. However, there was a single political question, in other words, where we propose to follow up the consequences of the law when it comes to temporary workers. I would really like to hear what the Minister has to say about that. Will she take the lead in getting us written into the law or in the comments, that there will be a follow-up to the consequences, so that we avoid this becoming a barn gate for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141424	As I said in my speech, it is certainly something that has my attention: that the proportion of teachers in primary and secondary schools who have both professional and didactic education is high. So that's something that's one hundred percent of my focus. What initiatives might be put into the sea, I suggest we take as a discussion in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141450	That is fair enough, but what we need is for us to see what the consequences are. We therefore need an annual statement showing whether there have been fewer or more temporary workers and whether this is due to the law or whether it is due to other things. Would it not be sensible to approach it in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141510	The Ministry of Education already has a great deal of available data. Whether we have enough data to follow this area in the way we would like, I would very much like to go back and investigate. What this bill is about is legalising an existing practice; it's not about having more temps in primary school. But I really believe that the rapporteur and I share an awareness of this, and I think we should discuss this in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141545	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141603	The debate is open, and I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110141628	Thank you. Almost a year and a half ago, the IT system EFI was scrapped and all automatic recovery of public debt has since been suspended. Just as slowly it gets started again, but this whole automatic system had to be scrapped. In the time that has passed, the public debt has allegedly increased to around 100 billion. kr. We'll get the latest figures later this week, I understand. It is, of course, a huge problem and it is absolutely crucial for a crux of our society, as the tax administration is, that the recovery of SKAT's taxes and other payments to municipalities, states, utilities etc. is going to work again. Although the municipalities are compensated for a significant part of the arrears, as it is today, it is obvious why the municipalities are frustrated when the recovery of debts they have to bear and which SKAT and the state have then had to recover is not working at all. After all, the Social Democratic Party has pushed for a variety of measures in this area, and we welcome all measures that correct our tax administration. We must restore an efficient and fair tax system, and we must restore the Danes' confidence in SKAT. Before the Prime Minister had to throw the towel into the ring and transform the government to survive as Prime Minister, we, as we know, reached an agreement with the former Left Government on an investment plan for a new tax administration. We in the Social Democratic Party wanted a far more ambitious agreement. The areas of activity in the SKAT are not given any priority whatsoever. In fact, several of them may prove to be downgraded. However, it is a good thing that we have now tackled the major challenges that lie ahead of us in creating a new tax administration. One of the areas in which funds are actually provided is the area of recovery in which the draft law is concerned. Whether that is enough and whether a new system will be ready at the desired time and with the desired effect, we have good to see. In April 2016, the government and KL concluded an agreement to lead to actions for the recovery of municipal arrears, and with the agreement, the municipalities must be able to take over the recovery tasks involving the methods of attachment and foreclosure for new preferential claims. In June 2016, as you know, in the Committee on Taxation, we presented a report on the examination of motion for a resolution B 144 at the time when we indicated that we expected the government's common understanding with the KL to be followed by a legislative proposal. The draft law we are now considering follows up the agreement with the municipalities and the 2016 report, respectively, and must form the basis for the municipalities to now take over the recovery task with their preferential claims. These are therefore requirements, for example. property taxes, payments for rat-fighting and other types of liabilities based on ownership of immovable property, debts which, according to the law, have priority. It will therefore be requirements that are not being recovered from SKAT when the law enters into force. The claims during recovery from SKAT at the time of its entry into force will have to be recovered, but the municipalities may have the possibility, after its entry into force, to withdraw claims sent for recovery from SKAT, either for the purposes of a repayment scheme or set-off. It is precisely these demands that we are talking about, the beneficiaries, that should almost always be at the bottom if otherwise the recovery was working, precisely because SKAT has been able to claim a property sold if the debts were not paid, and then be able to pay the tax debts that were not paid. So it's a debt item, you have a very great incentive to get paid as the first one, if you imagined the situation that you owed this money. In future, the draft law will allow municipalities to recover, for example, the municipal property taxes by imposing a municipal mortgage fee on the real estate, by laying-outs through the court or in other assets and by offsetting, for example, the municipality. implement in excess taxes or child and youth benefits. It is also in the draft law that municipalities are given the opportunity to cooperate on the recovery task locally across municipalities. In addition, the draft law mentions that the other points raised in the agreement with KL are currently the subject of analysis by the Ministry of Taxation, but I would like to call on the Minister to give an assessment of these analyses to the committee as part of the committee's proceedings here. In addition, the government still needs to negotiate an announced agreement with KL to buy off the debts owed to the municipalities but which SKAT has not managed to recover. We would also like to see some clarification on this matter in the course of the committee's work on this bill. As I said, the situation is serious when it comes to recovery, about our tax administration at all. The Social Democratic Party supports measures to control recovery, including the possibility for municipalities to collect municipal property taxes, etc., which are in the bill here, so we will back it up in further processing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142112	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142117	I also think it is a sensible legislative proposal. I will explain it further in my own rapporteur's speech, but there is one thing that I might think might be relevant to discuss, and it is, of course, that the annual consumption of resources in the municipalities for this by the government is estimated to be 35 years' work equivalent to 18.2 million. kr. The money then to be given to the municipalities is taken from the SKAT framework. In relation to the whole debate we have on SKAT and the situation in SKAT and the fact that there is a great need to restore the SKAT, it is perhaps in principle wrong to take money from the SKAT framework at all. So my question is really whether the rapporteur will be prepared, at committee reading, to see if we can find other possible funding for that amount. It's not like it's 18.2 million. However, there is something wrong with the fact that we are cutting back on the SKAT framework when the SKAT really needs even more resources than they do today, as the rapporteur also says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142217	So, if you have to understand the thinking, it is the case that there are some tasks that SKAT no longer has to solve centrally. The municipalities will do so, and that is why we see an opportunity to save that money. In principle, we are not opposed to using the money wisely where it is possible to make it more efficient, even in the tax administration. On the contrary. But I agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that time is not to cut down on the IRS. On the contrary, there are a number of areas in which we believe that the government has not been willing to move forward to strengthen some areas of the SKAT which lack money. So instead of moving that money away from the SKAT framework, we believe that there is ample need for it elsewhere in the SKAT. This is a discussion we would like to discuss in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142301	I think that might be relevant, because this is really a task that SKAT should have carried out, because it was given this task in the context of the reform of structures in 2005. Then some years have been devoted to it, but the task will not be carried out, and when a task which is not then carried out in SKAT is suddenly to be transferred to some others and some years of work will then follow over, it is some years' work that has not been used for SKAT to deal with the task that they should have done. That is precisely why it is being transferred to the municipalities. There is something here that doesn't add up, so I think it would be nice if we could have a discussion about whether this money could be found in other ways than precisely by cutting the scope of the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142339	I am not sure that the description is absolutely correct. In other words, there are some people who have been working on the recovery of taxes they have not been very successful with it and there has been a system that should carry out the task fully automatically on some points where it has not succeeded at all. So, unfortunately, savings have been made on the basis of our government too, which was too deep and which contributes to the SKAT's problems. So I think on the bottom line, I agree with Mr. Rune Lund, and if our diagnoses aren't exactly the same, it shouldn't take us apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142411	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142419	This is a draft law on recovery, which, to put it mildly, goes rather badly, and it does, among other things, because we have a recovery system that has been dropped, namely the system that was called the EFI. That means, among other things, that... Now that the debt is rising • quite significantly as I have read it, it is up to about 100 billion. kr. and it is still rising quite dramatically, and this is, of course, a pretty bad situation for the Danish state and for taxpayers. Of course, something needs to be done about this, and it will be done, among other things. also with this bill, which is based on an agreement made between the National Association of Municipalities and the government back in April 2016, and which is about the municipalities taking over a number of tasks. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is quite positive that they should, and there is clearly a need for new solutions and also temporary solutions to remedy this very unsustainable situation. I think that this might well suggest that this will be a temporary solution, because at least the former Left Government had proposed that the property tax should be levied by the State in the future. Therefore, one could imagine that this was temporary, but I also think that some temporary measures are needed in order at least to get some of the money scratched in. Because as I read it, the debt is rising by up to 1.5 billion. kr. I think that all the measures we can take to remedy this are positive. There's this bill definitely a step in the right direction. This is, of course, mainly about property taxes, which the municipalities may be allowed to handle in the future, but they can then also have the opportunity to withdraw claims that have been made to SKAT, and that is something that we think is quite positive. But I would also like to say that, overall, it is not something that solves everything in this extremely sad situation, and that is where we also need to focus on some of the other measures that have already been put into the sea, if you can put it that way, among other things. The Simplifying Rule. There are very many different types of claims today, there are very many different interest rates, and we have already reached an agreement to correct them. Some interest rates are attributed daily, some monthly and some annually, and it is clear that it will be very difficult to create an IT support that can handle it. So many other initiatives have been set in motion to remedy this. I would also like to mention the last Finance Act, in which a broad circle of agreements helped to put a number of additional resources, among others. to the area of recovery, and that could also be a partial response to Mr. Rune Lund's question to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, that is to say that the money that now goes from SKAT to the municipalities cannot be seen alone, but that one also has to look at the Finance Act, where a broad circle of agreements including the Social Democratic Party provides much more resources for precisely the recovery area. So there will be more resources for recovery, but it is only fair that resources will also be transferred to the municipalities in order to carry out the task forward, at least in this particular area. All in all, however, I would like to say that this is, of course, a good measure which can help to help the very bad situation we are in with regard to recovery right now, and that is why the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142730	There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142737	That is a little in line with the question I put to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jesper Petersen, for we know that tax workers earn their wages many times. And we also know that if you take and close down some annual work in SKAT, which will then be transferred to the municipalities, then there are some revenue that you do not get. Well, the whole SKAT disaster is all about the fact that it has cost us all dearly that changing governments have saved SKAT to pieces. It has simply cost us billions and billions of dollars of jobs. Now we are here, and we are talking about 35 years' work. Of course, it is not many thousands of years' work, but it is still 35 years' work. And there is something fundamentally wrong in cutting back on SKAT in a situation where SKAT needs many more employees than those already provided with the recovery plan • a recovery plan which Enhedslisten fully supports. So could we not find another way to finance this when we know that SKAT needs the annual work, and when we know that tax workers earn their wages many times? It's a good business to hire more people in SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142846	I would say that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right in principle that if you remove employees from SKAT, it is clear that they cannot recover money. But the truth is that no money is being recovered today, and the assessment in this agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, which is based on a bill that we support, is that those resources are better spent in the municipalities right now, if only temporarily, so that after all you can get some of the money in. Otherwise, I basically agree. But it is clear that if you come from a situation where you have employees who do not recover anything and move them over to a place where, after all, they get something in, it is, after all, a good move of resources on a temporary basis. Therefore, you can also ask afterwards if there is no need for more resources in SKAT to solve this task in the future. Yes, but that is exactly what the Finance Act adopted last year is doing. It provides resources for this area, so you can get some more employees to look at both new IT support and recovering some of the old claims etc. to make this right again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110142946	But it is because I would like us to start thinking about the revenue side and the expenditure side much more together when we talk about taxes. Just before Christmas there was a report from the National Audit Office, which is called "SKAT's control over the payment of negative VAT, and in this respect the State auditors expressed a very serious criticism of the lack of control. And that, among other things. can see from the report from the Reichsaudit, page 23, is that it says so in the field of negative VAT how much each employee earned on average, i.e. 27 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143030	I fully share that view, namely that it would be good if you could look at tax workers in a different way and see it as an income and not just an expense to have a tax employee. For it is clear that there are areas on the tax side and on the VAT side where I think it would be useful to hire more staff. But that doesn't go against this bill. There is no reason why anything was recovered in one area, and I think that by moving it to the municipalities, we are getting more out of the resources. Therefore, I think this could be a good solution, but it does not rule out what I think we agree on, our two parties, that you have to look at the SKAT in a different way and look at how much an employee can recover extra, and not just see an employee as an expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143106	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143110	Thank you. I can hear that the rapporteur and we in the alternative agree fairly on the interpretation of this bill and why it is a sensible legislative proposal. Therefore, I also find it interesting to talk about what will happen after 2018. In other words, it is being proposed that recovery should then be removed from the municipalities, and we hear that the Council of Lawyers believes that legal certainty is actually being improved by the fact that it is with the claimants. With us we want to set the municipalities free, at least it is too much to demand something binding. But could it be interesting for the Danish People's Party to consider leaving it with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143144	I can't deny that. I have not taken a position on this at this stage, and this is because we are in such an intermediate phase, one can say where we need to find out exactly what should be of debt types and who should recover what. I have also noticed that for example. the municipal-owned utilities also want the task to lie with them, so closer to those who actually have the money for and that they themselves recover it. I think this is a very sympathetic idea, but at this stage we in the Danish People's Party have not determined exactly what this division of tasks should be. I have also noticed that it has not been done in the government, nor in the KL, where work is being done on having working groups in both places and working groups together to find out exactly where the cut should be. However, I think it would be quite sympathetic if the municipal-owned utilities themselves could make a greater effort or if the municipalities could make a greater effort before they pass things on to the state. Then you could find a solution to it, it would be super good. But I think these working groups should be allowed to look at things first before you find out exactly where the cut should lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143240	René Gade? There were no more questions, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143251	Thank you for the floor. As we all know in this Chamber today, the government is cleaning up the SKAT. Fortunately, with the tax minister at the helm, there is a broad consensus on the need for this clean-up, so that together we can create a new robust and more efficient tax administration. The past few years have been marked by bad stories, stories that weaken citizens' confidence in the system to manage the money that is to be spent for the benefit of our common society. One of the prerequisites for our tax system to work is for there to be an effective recovery of public debt, and that is where we have problems right now. In 2005, recovery was brought together, which is why in recent years the EFI has had to recover taxes, and we all know what the background is: the EFI has gone downstairs and back home, and we have had to pause the recoveries until we have managed whether they are legitimate, legitimate claims or whether they are no longer recoverable, and this has had a huge impact, especially on the municipalities. And we haven't ignored that. The government, led by the tax minister, has listened to what the wishes of the municipalities have been and tried to meet the wishes they have had to be allowed to recover arrears themselves. It is against this background that the Left Government has entered into a concrete agreement that in future, the municipalities will again take over the recovery of deposits and the application of foreclosures for new and preferential municipal claims. In concrete terms, it is proposed that in future the municipalities will be able to recover the municipal property taxes, on the one hand, by the payment of a municipal mortgage fee in the real estate, on the other hand, by the payment of fees by means of the guarantee of the immovable property or other assets, or by offsetting which the municipalities themselves carry out in excess of tax. The proposal is based on only new claims. However, there may be exceptions where the municipality revokes claims that have already been sent for recovery in the SKAT. The proposal is therefore a solution which will be able to help the municipalities to obtain their money as early as 1 February. It has been the wish of the Left and the Government to meet the wishes of the municipalities to be more able to recover some of these claims themselves, and we believe that this is what we are doing. We are also positive about looking at other solutions, such as: the supply companies, or that private individuals can contribute more in this area. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143536	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110143555	An agreement was made last April between KL and the government, and Enhedslisten supports the content of that agreement. Basically, in relation to the recovery in SKAT, it is about the lack of people, and now with the agreed recovery plan, which will, of course, add 1.000 extra staff, a step has been taken in the right direction, and you really need not just to take a small step, but a very big step in terms of the recovery of SKAT. In 2005, approx. 11,500 employees in SKAT, in 2015 there were approx. 6,500 employees of the SKAT. Thousands of jobs have been lost in the SKAT. IT systems and, above all, the EFI had to take over many of the tasks, and the scrapped EFI and EFI's inability to function bears a large part of the blame for the scandals we see in the SKAT, and the way the EFI has been approached has a large part of the blame for the loss of as many jobs in the SKAT as have been done. So the problem needs to be solved by hiring more people in the SKAT. Even if Enhedslisten supports the agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and the government, something is wrong when we discuss this proposal today. In fact, SKAT had taken over the task from the municipalities in 2005. SKAT was supposed to do the job. SKAT doesn't solve the task. The municipalities must take over. And what are we really doing? To repatriate the area temporarily, or what? Is it gonna be permanent? Maybe, and then it'll have to go back. So we have suffered from such a permanent structural reform because some catastrophic decisions have been taken over the last ten years to save SKAT to pieces. In fact, the problem ought to be solved by simply making SKAT work and adding even more resources to SKAT than is the case today. In relation to the administrative impact on the public sector, the draft law here estimates that annual resource consumption in the municipalities from 2017 will amount to 35 annual work equivalent to 18.2 million. kr. I would like to ask a few questions about this during the committee procedure, because 35 years' work in many municipalities does not sound very much. How did you get that number? IT expenditure is set at 11.5 million. kr., and when you know what it costs in SKAT, it doesn't sound very much either. What's behind these calculations? In any case, I think there could be a little more information about that. We will try to ask that question. Then there is the problem of what I have also mentioned in my brief remarks that the additional consumption in the municipalities or the increased allocation to the municipalities or the fact that the municipalities take over the task is matched by a lower consumption in the SKAT. Wouldn't SKAT be able to use the 35 years' work for some of the many other burning platforms that actually exist in the SKAT? I would like to know, and we would like to hear it from Enhedslisten, and we have said it many times, and now I say it again because at some point it might have an effect on thinking about the revenue side and the expenditure side more together. For example, when we are talking about the future of the European Community, we are talking about the future of the European Community. will receive a report from the National Audit Office, which the State Auditors comment on, and which will come out just before Christmas in December, and which says on page 23 that in relation to negative VAT, it is the case that each employee in the field made adjustments on average in 2015, i.e. Stopped wrong payments, for 27 million. kr., that actually means that when we have an expense in this bill of 18.2 million. kr., we could hire another employee, tax minister, within negative VAT at 0.5 million. kr., which would then fetch, if we imagine it was the average, 27 million. kr. Into, and then there would actually be funding for it. This is the kind of economic thinking and business cases, for example. works with the municipalities. But in SKAT it is absent because the Ministry of Finance seems to understand further employment of people in SKAT as an expense and not as a business case, where one thinks the revenue side and the expenditure side together. So I would like to see us discussing this in committee as well. We are in favour of the agreement that is made between the KL and the government, but we really, really, really hard to start cutting down in the SKAT and cutting down in the SKAT grant. We simply think this is the wrong way to go. Now that a recovery plan has finally been put in place, in which we are going to discuss for once how to invest in SKAT and not cut back, we will not be helping to cut back here. We must find a better solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144101	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144104	Thank you. Now, I hear Mr. Thompson over and over again. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten say that more funds are needed for SKAT and that SKAT is saved to pieces. Now I do not think that we can generally equate more money to things and then a better quality, but let us now go into the paragraph of Enhedslisten here. I also think it is necessary in the tax field, and that is why we have presented this massive investment plan, which I can hear Enhedslisten taking ownership of, in order to say that we have finally come up with an investment plan. I do welcome ownership, but I have doubts as to whether this actually resulted in votes when we had to vote on more funds for SKAT under the Finance Act. So will the Enhedslisten's rapporteur just inform me what Enhedslisten voted on the proposal for the more funds allocated to SKAT in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144151	In other words, are we voting in favour of the overall financial law because, at the same time, more funds were added to the SKAT? We haven't done that. I can confirm that. We support the investment plan for SKAT. We support all the funds that are being allocated to the SKAT. We are actually sorry that we are not in the negotiations that are going on. It has a bit of a funny history, because right after the election there was this agreement that the Borg Peace Parties made, where you had to sign on a certain paper that had a certain history writing about what had happened in the past. There we said that we could not sign that paper, but we support all the measures relating to SKAT. Now it is no longer called Borg Peace Parties, now it is called the circle of agreements, I can hear that the parties call it. And then you sit in that circle and discuss some proposals with which we are very much in agreement, among others. around investments in SKAT. These are negotiations that we would very much like to take part in and where we would like to sit at the table, but where those parties which have led the way in destroying the SKAT with savings have decided that they will sit and discuss it themselves. I think that's a little too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144254	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144256	Well, at least we got clarification that Enhedslisten had not voted for the more funds for SKAT. I was glad to hear that clarification. I am well aware that Enhedslisten often finds a hair in the soup that causes you not to be there. I am also aware that the Finance Act is a pretty big thing, but there are also elements in the Finance Act. You can vote in favour of parts of the Finance Act, and that is what I asked, namely whether you had voted in favour of those parts of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144319	I have to admit that I have not managed all the elements and all the amendments to the Finance Act, and what exactly the honourable Member refers to, but there is nothing strange about the fact that we are not voting in favour of a single Finance Act, even if there are some elements in it that one might agree with, if at the same time there are many other elements • and that, as you know, there was a disagreement between the Unity List. But I can make it absolutely clear, as I have done many times, including from this platform, that we want more funds for SKAT. We believe that this is sensible and we also believe that it is a good business. We believe that it is important for the perception of SKAT among citizens in society that SKAT is strengthened and that SKAT is not weakened, among other things. As is actually the case with a saving in this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144359	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144407	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have pointed out, this draft law, L 102, is a consequence of one of the large and very expensive IT scandals in the SKAT, namely the so-called EFI scandal, which led to the collection of tax debts which were obsolete and therefore contrary to the law. That is why the system was suspended and a new recovery system must now be developed. With this bill, the municipalities are taking over the recovery of property taxes and other preferential claims. The municipalities will in future be able to recover the municipal property taxes by the payment of a municipal mortgage fee on real estate, the payment of which is through the right of the guarantor of the immovable property or other assets, or the offsetting of which, for example, municipalities. implement in excess tax. The bill is a follow-up to the agreement reached between the Left Government and the National Association of Municipalities in spring 2016. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144518	Thank you. We need to get negotiations straight into the sidelines, please. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144526	Thank you. It's nice to stand up here and be so positive about a bill. It is so much a powerful law that is being put into effect here, and it is needed because, unfortunately, the EFI is in many ways a rotten foundation on which to build. There are many people in the SKAT who have worked hard to make it work, but unfortunately it hasn't. So now we have an amputated recovery system, and that is why a little temporary action must be taken. In the alternative, we are pleased that the municipalities are allowed to try to pull these things ashore. At any rate, there must be quite a lot of commitment and ambition to bring them in, and the costs that must then be associated with it, and the training that has to be on the IT side, I think comes back tenfold. That's why I don't want to spend much time on this. I would just like to make a brief comment on this, which is more general in relation to the SKAT. I can very much agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it should not be from SKAT that the money was taken. As has also been mentioned, it is not huge sums of money that are largely taken, but the signal in it is still gone wrong. On the other hand, I should like to point out that what we are dealing with here is simply a scandal of the great ones, because there are some things that have not gone as they should. There may be some intel that has not been entirely in place, some ambitions that have been a little too long, and some things that have not really been checked, and some agility in relation to developments that have not been in place either. But now that you have it in your mind and are very positive about what is about to happen, I have to say that at the same time we have a study from just before Christmas from the DA. We have had long meetings where you would like to have an overview of what went wrong in this profit case. There may be differences of opinion as to whether such a lawyer's investigation is right or not, but if we really want to get to the bottom of it and understand what it is, the problems are in the SKAT, and have a change of behavior, so that things like that don't happen again, then I would at least just say that I don't think you should concentrate on how fast things go. That's why I'm very patient about whether the municipalities are getting this right now. There may well be some child flaws, they may commit some missers here during their first recovery period. They must, of course, do as well as they can. But this is the right way to go. I would also like recovery to remain with the municipalities. But that in the profit case one chooses that it should be a lawyer's survey, not a commission, and not a publication of the report that has been made, there can be many good reasons why it is not published, by the DA's side, but the combination of not publishing that report and then choosing such a small, cunning lawyer's survey that will work with a very tight focus. I don't think we're going to make sure that we don't get this rottenness in the SKAT again. And it's important for me to say that I don't think it's the employees of the SKAT who deliver this rottenness. Unfortunately, I think that is the framework we are giving them, not out of bad will, but unfortunately by repeatedly providing the same very, very sharp-cut framework, which then ends up in some freaks of some cases. So a hope from here would be to consider whether it's really these quick quick fixes you need. I can accept them when we have to act backwards, but not when we have to understand the past and why the problems arise. So a yes from here to be temporary in relation to giving the municipalities responsibility for the recovery. We may hope that it will remain in the municipalities if a sensible solution can be found. And then a big cry that we are not acting too quickly when we have to understand where it is that the mistake has been made. Because I have no faith right now that we've gotten a lot smarter, nor that we're gonna be the one from this lawyer's investigation that's gonna be about the profit case, for example. We have to dig much, much deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144852	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110144903	As several rapporteurs have said, this draft law comes from a sad background, namely that the state recovery of these various debts leaves much to be desired, to say the least. That is why we are also fully in line with all the rapporteurs who have said that then it makes sense to allow municipalities to recover their debts. We wholeheartedly support this. We therefore agree with the comments that have been made about the general shortage of resources in SKAT, and no one should be in any doubt that if the Radical Left is given the opportunity to do so, we will increase the supply of resources to SKAT in up to several areas, simply because it is needed. But that should not prevent the municipalities from starting to recover their debts, we think, even though the second battle is entirely legitimate, and we continue to do so. Then there is the second question that has been turned a few times, namely whether it really should lie with the municipalities, not just until 2018, but further ahead. I would just like to make it clear that this debate on the part of the Radical Left is also fully open to us. I think we should discuss this in depth, including in the parties. I do not know whether the Minister has gone further in his deliberations. But I would just like to say that for us it is not a law, I would have almost said, or not a legislative or natural device, that it should lie with the state or with the municipalities. It must lie where it is most effectively handled and where it gives the greatest legitimacy. On top of the whole story we have had now, it is worth asking ourselves whether we should get it into the new computer systems or whether we could make it simpler by leaving it out there, or vice versa, whether we still consider that there are such huge synergies by having one system that we can save municipalities a lot of costs by doing so. But let us enter into that discussion with an open mind, because I think we owe it both to the history that has been and to the potentials that lie in making it better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145119	As several rapporteurs have mentioned, SKAT took over the recovery obligations from the municipalities in 2005 when Lars Løkke Rasmussen's structural reform was implemented. Since then, we all know the stories of SKAT's deroute and the subsequent 10 years of cuts culminating in the decommissioning of the common recovery system, EFI. The major crisis we are in, in which SKAT is in, because EFI was declared illegal and could not carry out the recovery of claims, left a gap out in the municipalities. That was also why, in October 2015, I first made a proposal that the state might have to compensate the municipalities for the lack of money that they could not use for welfare out there when they could not recover them themselves. That's what was so unfair. There was a debt out there, money that could have been spent on municipal core welfare but could not be recovered because the municipalities were not allowed to recover it themselves. There was no support for this proposal, partly from DF, for which I am grateful. And afterwards we had a motion for a resolution from the SF, B 144, which we too, gentlemen, are allowed to keep quiet in the Chamber. At that time, the Minister was also the Minister for Taxation, and a very fine agreement was made with KL; that is why we did not vote on our proposal. On the other hand, a fine report was made in the Committee on Taxation, which I also think the Minister of Taxation has honoured in relation to the KL agreement. It is just not right that we should decide in here that the recovery which has largely worked out there have been some advantages, some drawbacks of municipal recovery must be changed, at the same time as the many different actions and actions that have taken place here: changing governments, cuts. We have an IT system that collapses completely. And the funds that the municipalities could otherwise spend on welfare simply cannot be gotten their hands on. That is why, of course, we also support this draft law from the Minister. This is very similar to the ideas we had a year and a half ago, and I can also see that the bill says that the Treasury and Ministry of Taxation are initiating an analysis of the economic consequences for the municipalities of the reduced recovery activity and the possibility of compensating the municipalities through a state purchase of the municipal arrears. That's one of the things we were preoccupied with. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned, we also believe that there should be a greater focus not only on the costs involved in hiring more people in SKAT, but also on the investment it is. In other words, every tax worker is scratching money for all of us, which we can spend on welfare or tax relief, or whatever you want to do in the first place, we should perhaps consolidate ourselves, as it is said in a slightly dry politician's language so that we can at least have a tax system that people have confidence in again. After all, it does not matter whether you are from the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslisten, the Left or the SF, or what you are, because we may disagree on what the tax rate should be, what the tax rate should be, whether tax cuts should be granted or more money spent on welfare, but we all depend on people having a basic confidence that the system works, especially in a society that is as tax-financed as ours is. That's why we all depend on us to get this job done. I have said this before, but I should not be too fine to praise the Minister again. I think the tax minister is doing a really good job. The Minister is aware that we in the SF would also have liked even more resources. After all, there will be no more resources with this bill as a whole, but I think that, in a difficult situation, the Minister has lifted this. Whether you want to lower the top tax, remove it, remove the registration tax or whatever it may be, we all depend on a tax system that people again have basic confidence in. It is therefore also important not to say in the municipalities: yes, it may be that you want more educators in the day institutions or better conditions for the elderly, but we regret that the state took the recovery system, and now we need 50 or 100 million in our municipality, and that money cannot be spent twice. That is why it is a good proposal. I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the issue of extra resources, but we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145635	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145642	Thank you. The bill is about giving the municipalities the opportunity to recover tax debts themselves. It is, of course, absolutely essential for our society that tax havens be properly and effectively involved, both in the interests of the legal certainty of taxpayers and, of course, also in the interests of the citizens' sense of justice. Finally, there is the economic element that some municipalities are out there lacking the money that has not been charged. That is why we all have an interest in the safe operation of the recovery of arrears to SKAT, but it has not done so because of the problems that have been encountered with EFI. When recovery does not work, it creates distrust of our tax system and it is unhealthy, and since it was decided to close the EFI, recovery efforts have been significantly reduced or non-existent, and this has, of course, had some consequences. Of course, the demands of the municipalities have increased, and we need to do something about this so that we can restore confidence in recovery. That is why the Conservative People's Party believes that, in the situation we are in, it makes very good sense to support the agreement reached by the previous government with the KL to allow municipalities to carry out the recovery of preferential claims, such as: property tax. It has also been a great wish of the municipalities themselves to be able to recharge the tax charges. In addition, we can support the other elements of the agreement between the previous government and KL, which include: contains some elements to set up a joint working group on how to ensure effective recovery in the future. In those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110145835	I would like to thank you for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the draft law. The background is, of course, which a number of rapporteurs have mentioned a little sadly, namely that we are in an extraordinary situation as a result of my decision to suspend the so-called EFI system. The suspension has necessitated the development of an entirely new recovery system, which has led to a reduced recovery activity. It is absolutely important that the recovery of public debt is restored and that it is legal, correct and effective. Indeed, it is neither right nor right for other citizens to have to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public, and this also applies to the debts owed to the country's municipalities. That is why in spring 2016, the former government, the narrow Left Government, entered into an agreement with KL that the municipalities take over the recovery of their property taxes and what is called other preferential claims, as also Mr. Jesper Petersen, I think, gave a fine review of: rat-fighting fees and a number of other things, in other words, in addition to property taxes. The agreement was followed in June 2016 by the report of the Committee on Taxation on the takeover of claims by municipalities in the context of the examination of motion for a resolution B 144, tabled by among others. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today is therefore a follow-up to the agreement and the motion for a resolution and the report that was written. And, of course, I acknowledge the words of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and welcome the fact that there was a motion for a resolution and that a report was also produced. It has helped us to put forward this bill today. The bill then ensures that property taxes and other municipal preferential claims will be recovered as soon as possible. And this allows the municipalities themselves to organise an effective recovery of municipal property taxes and similar requirements, so that we can get to grips with what, unfortunately, is an increasing debt from the citizens to the municipalities. The transfer of the recovery task to the municipalities with regard to the priority requirements here is one of several legislative initiatives designed to simplify, restore and streamline the area of recovery in the future. And one of the major legislative proposals is the simplification bill, which comes later in the session, in which we simplify the recovery legislation in order to be able to effectively support IT. Some have asked a number of questions. Sir. Jesper Petersen, sir. Rune Lund had some very factual questions that they pointed out they would ask during the committee procedure, and we must, of course, endeavour to answer them in good time but also in good time. I also think that a few remarks have been made about the discussion that has been going on here, about the fact that there is a DUT demand on the part of the municipalities; when they take over part of what was previously a government task, some money has to be accompanied by that is such a classic KL-view, and so there is in this case too. And that's right, as Mr. Rune Lund explains that it is money that goes from SKAT, but it is money that overall goes to carry out the recovery task. My basic point of departure is that we need effective recovery, and so I do not have such strong ideological views as to whether that task is anchored in the state, in the municipalities or perhaps in whole or in part with a private player. However, I am starting from the point of view that it cannot be spread over all the actors permanently and that the best thing will be to find one actor who can carry out the recovery task forward. And there we get a good starting point with the new IT system that has not been built from scratch, but has been bought as a shelf product that will be addressed to the new simplified legislation, which will come later in the parliament assembly, and then this bill. In all silence, in relation to the debate about money being transferred to the municipalities and whether SKAT should have more money, I would say that there may well be areas where there is a need to add additional funds to SKAT, but here before Christmas there was a broad circle of parties that agreed on an investment plan, where quite a lot of money was added to the tax administration for 2017 and 2018 a historic boost to the tax administration, which we have not seen for many years. In this context, the government committed that the money that has yet to be allocated to funding by 2020 should be raised to 7 billion. kr., the government will take on its shoulders and give funding to in future finance laws so that by 2020 we have spent 7 billion. kr. to invest in our tax administration. And a very large part of that money is spent on managing recovery, because there is a great deal of money for our society in not managing recovery. That is why I think that the debate on DUT in relation to municipalities and states is a very, very small part of that debate. And you have to remember the big picture, which is that a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has contributed a great deal of money to SKAT and that a great many of them go to the recovery area. But, of course, other questions and the debate I will take in this Chamber, and otherwise I will reply during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150431	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150437	I think it is worth mentioning that all parties in this Parliament support the investment plan for SKAT, and I would like to repeat once again that we in the Enhedslisten would like to be involved in the negotiations that are taking place. I know that the Minister of Taxation has decided that it should only be those parties that have helped to destroy the SKAT with savings that have to sit and negotiate, and I think that is a pity. I think that all parties in the Folketing should be involved, because all parties actually want to invest in SKAT instead of cutting back on SKAT. It is true that the municipalities must be DUT'ed. In other words, if there are some tasks they no longer have to do, some money will be taken from them, and if they are given additional tasks because of the legislation, they will have to be provided with more funds. So the municipalities need some money to do the job. The question then is just where that money should come from, when, so to speak, it is the state that has to pay. Should it be SKAT that has to pay, or should they come from somewhere else? There I just find it interesting when we see the report from the Reichsaudit, which on page 23 in relation to negative VAT shows that on average each employee stopped the wrong payments for 27 million. kr. Because then you could actually hire one. A new position could be proposed in the area of negative VAT. That would give them about. 27 million kr., and then you would actually have the funding for this in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150552	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150554	Of course, I take down the positive message from the Enhedslisten, and I would also like to sign for that. There are many different reasons why Enhedslisten is not included, but I think you could make an agreement between all the parties in the Danish Parliament, but then it would take longer to reach an agreement, and there might also be some things on which we would disagree, among other things. How we're gonna fund this. All the time that Enhedslisten has not voted for the entire Finance Act, Enhedslisten also has some problems with some of the way this is being financed. Nor do I exclude that there may be areas, for example. I do not subscribe to the tale that Mr. Rune Lund brews in her answer or supports, namely that we can just hire tens of thousands of people, then they serve themselves home. In other words, you may be able to hire an employee or two employees, but there is a connection between how many employees you hire and what comes in. There is some balance point there, and I believe that we have found the balance point with the 2 000 additional employees in the investment plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150702	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150704	Which then is 1,000 employees net, because 1,000 of them are the cancellation of already planned savings. However, we are still away in a situation where there will be an employee of approx. 7,500 against the 11,500 in 2005. I am not going to say that you have to hire thousands of employees, but we are actually suggesting that you go out and look at whether you cannot hire 1,000 new employees and plan a plan for how to do it, within the control system, which also concerns negative VAT. When I read a report from the National Audit Office, which says that in 2015 every employee on average stopped paying out illegally for 27 million, you can hire an employee and get 50 more. I think that's a math that's worth noticing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150746	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150748	Well, it's in the Reich's audit report, so that's the way it is, but I think that if you follow the Reich's audit's thinking and calculation models, there's some limit to it. After all, we are now allocating more resources from other areas of VAT to VAT control, and I do not rule out the need to look at whether more needs to be done. But we also have to look at the socio-economic costs of running a tax administration. We could hire thousands of employees, and they might well serve themselves home, but the socio-economic cost of a company that is in being controlled or a citizen is also required to take part in the calculation, and it is not a goal for me that we have x number of employees in the tax administration. It is a goal for me that we have an effective tax administration and an effective recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150834	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150839	Then there was a hole through it. It is, in fact, a debate on so many other things in the tax administration that is going on here, and I would just like to make one comment: what the tax minister is now saying, in relation to his being satisfied with the level laid down in the investment plan, we are at least not in agreement with, because there are a large number of other areas in which we do not give priority to that investment plan. This is another discussion. I would just like to ask the factual question about the present draft law: can the Minister of Taxation tell us today how much tax debt is now, including the amount of municipal arrears?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110150918	I can't, but the restance statement that should have been sent to the Danish Parliament before Christmas is, I think this week, forwarded to the Danish Parliament, and there you will be able to see both the municipal and the state for the third quarter of 2016, and it may also be that we... in the municipal area, if Mr. Jesper Petersen wants it, in committee proceedings can get more up-to-date figures on how it looks with the municipal arrears. However, until we have an effective recovery, there is unfortunately an increase in the amount of claims. And it is increasing because interest is charged, and that is a large part of the increase. However, when we get the new IT-supported recovery started here in 2017, hopefully in April, combined with the many new employees we have hired and who are actually recovering, we should be able to show some positive results from the large amount of money we spend in 2017, and I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151023	I think it is extremely positive if it is this year that the curve can be reversed and it is actually beginning to go down again. It is shocking reading, I think, to see how strong it is actually that the residual amount is growing. The Minister for Taxation says that there will probably be an answer this week, and then also says that it should have actually come in December. That's why I've moved a little bit for it. And then maybe I just imagined that the tax minister, perhaps here before it came, could say something about it. But we must wait for the statement that is coming. Can we say anything alone about the legislative proposal here, i.e. the amount of arrears covered by these preferential requirements? Is there anything we can tell you here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151101	Unfortunately, I have to admit that I cannot answer that, not today, but I am quite sure that we can send a written reply and we can do so quickly in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151113	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151115	I wasn't really going to say anything, because I think this case and the bill here should actually be allowed to just go through without talking too much about the funds that would then have to be taken from SKAT because they were spent elsewhere in the municipalities. But I still think that the agenda was slightly distorted, because I actually think that Mr. Rune Lund has a point when he comes up with the bell-ready figures... it's black on white from the excelark... about what an employee can deliver in relation to this recovery. And it is not said that thousands of employees have to be employed... who have already maintained a good number of employees. And when you sit around and think about what it is for numbers that will probably come in the transmission we get during this week and how much arrears there are out there, and then you say you've invested 7 billion. kr. extra over a given period, then they are 7 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister is of the opinion that what is needed has now been invested in order for SKAT to have a sound foundation on which to build. Because I believe that we are actually in business right now. SKAT is at an entrepreneurial stage there is a huge deficit, one is about to build all new structures, and one is about to find out how to do things. The problem here is that you cannot, like an entrepreneurial enterprise, be sold and get some astronomical amount; you will not get extra earnings. So is there now the basis for that investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151234	Although it is stated in the government's constitution that the government would like to privatise, I do not think it is the tax administration that is thought of there. So, sir... René Gade is absolutely right. In other words, an investment plan has been drawn up which estimates that 7 billion will have to be added. kr. Towards 2020. This is a great deal of money, especially when you look at the grants that SKAT has had historically, both under the former VK government and under the former Red Government, the S-RV-SF government. And it may well be that you have to re-evaluate the estimate I will look at continuously. It may have to be reviewed upwards, and it may also have to be revised downwards in various areas. And my goal as tax minister is not to use x number of crowns or to employ x number of employees in the tax administration. It is to use the tax crowns that are necessary in order to have an effective tax administration in which we can all have confidence and which works for the individual citizen and business, no more or less. And, of course, we're looking at that all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151338	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151340	As I remember the figures and the scenario we have looked at jointly in committee, because of interest costs and several other things during the period we have seen outlined, it will just be a deficit that is growing. In other words, the arrears will grow for a longer period, even if we take these initiatives. And that is my question. I mean, I understand that the budgets have to keep them true, and we are also very interested in that alternative, but if we are going to make them fit in the long term and not constantly have to make these hoovesa solutions, isn't it now that we have to take the big blow and have what it takes to investigate instead of looking at it on an ongoing basis? It seems from the outside as if you've looked at it continuously, and it hasn't really gone so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151424	Yes, but I may think that Mr. René Gade owes it to acknowledge that 7 billion. kr. isn't change. 7 billion kr. is actually a lot of money, and that is what you spend investing in the tax administration. Then it is fair to have the view that you need even more money. I just have to say that there is no technical basis for me to reach that conclusion at this stage, but we are, of course, looking at it on an ongoing basis. But 7 billion. kr., which the Danish Parliament granted a large part of with the Finance Act before Christmas, and which is now being used in many areas, among others. in the field of recovery, is now a major boost to the tax administration. It must ensure that recovery, as well as the remaining large parts of the SKAT, works significantly better than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151505	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170110151518	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 January 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
