ParlaMint-DK_20170428100008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Martin Henriksen (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 55 (What can the Minister say about harassment and persecution of Danes in ghetto areas?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170428100026	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 May 2017. It is first Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428100056	49% of the 25-64-year-olds with non-Western origin are not in work and often receive transfer income. In 2014, expenditure on non-Western immigrants and descendants amounted to EUR 33 billion. kr. net. That's 90 million. kr. during the day, and that is a figure that was calculated before we experienced a huge migratant stream in 2015, among other things. to Denmark. So the figure today is probably much higher. It is, of course, a bill that we have to pay, but is that fair? We in the Danish People's Party think this is a big problem, and that is why we have called for this inquiry debate. So I would like to thank both the two ministers in advance, but also the rapporteurs who are here in the Chamber today, for wanting to come and take part in this very, very important debate. In the Danish People's Party we believe that if you come to Denmark, you should contribute to Danish society. You have to give before you enjoy, as an old saying says. Unfortunately, that proverb has not been fully followed by a large proportion of people of non-Western origin in Denmark. No later than yesterday we saw on TV 2 how people of non-Western origin were incredibly difficult to get into work. We have had countless integration plans in Denmark. Nothing's worked. The TV 2 programmes The mosques behind the veil last year also clearly showed the enormous resentment in certain parts of the Muslim environment in Denmark about integration and an unwillingness to contribute. You want social benefits, but you don't want to work and become Danish. So what's gonna happen now? We in the Danish People's Party would like to know that. What initiatives does the government have in the drawer to reverse developments? What kind of Columbus egg has been found? So I am glad that we can take that debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428100316	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. First, the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428100325	Thank you. And not least, thank you to the Danish People's Party for a very important and fundamental agenda, which is now to be discussed here in Parliament today. After all, this question debate focuses on employment among people of foreign origin, especially women, and on what the government will do to make more of them work and contribute to Danish society. After all, it is a key issue that we are aware of what can be done and, above all, how we can reverse the developments that have been going on for decades. It is also a good opportunity today to take stock of what the government has put in place, how much of it, I owe it to say, has happened in a very close collaboration with the Danish People's Party, and where there have not been many other parties who have been interested in going the way where it is made more attractive to work and make demands precisely to ensure it. Nor should there be any doubt that it is still high on the government's agenda that more people of foreign origin enter employment, become integrated into the Danish labour market and get away from public support. I have agreed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that I will start by reviewing the employment figures for persons of foreign origin in Denmark. Secondly, I would like to explain what the government is doing to get more of those who have been here for a long time in Denmark into employment. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration then takes over and tells about what the government is doing to get newly arrived refugees and family members to contribute through the labour market. First, a brief review of the employment figures. Here I will focus on the differences between people of Danish origin on the one hand and non-western immigrants on the other. Because it is here that we see the greatest differences, and here, there really is a marked need to take action. Descendants of non-western immigrants are not part of my review. This is because a large proportion of them are quite young people and, in view of demographic differences, it is difficult to compare them with the group of individuals of Danish origin. Looking back over the past 20 years, the big picture is that far fewer of the non-western immigrants are in work than people of Danish origin. However, the difference has diminished over time. In the 1990s, the employment rate for people of Danish origin was approx. 75% For non-western immigrants it was 35%. In 2015, the employment rate for people of Danish origin continued to be well over 75%, while it was barely 50%. for the non-western immigrants. The difference exists for both men and women, but it is greatest in the case of women. That is also why this debate is, of course, both topical and relevant. In 2015, 77 per cent was spent. of men of Danish origin in employment, while it was only 53 per cent. of the male non-western immigrants. If we look at the women, 73 percent. of women of Danish origin in employment in 2015, while it was only 45%. of the female non-western immigrants. So these are some significant differences, one might say. It is not only when we look at employment figures that there is a great difference between people of Danish origin and non-western immigrants. The same applies when we look at who receives public support. Unfortunately, non-western immigrants are also significantly over-represented here. Non-Western immigrants represent per head of population. the fourth quarter of 2016 7,7%; of the population of working age, but as much as 13%. of all persons on public support. In comparison, people of Danish origin account for 84.9%. of the population and 82.2% of the population. of all persons on public support. Non-Western immigrants are, of course, particularly over-represented in the benefits of integration, but also in cash benefits. On integration benefit, both men and women with a non-western background are approx. Ninety-two percent. of male and female recipients of integration benefit respectively. On cash benefits, men with a non-western background make up approx. 20% of all male cash benefits recipients, while women with a non-Western background account for a total of 30%. of the female cash benefits recipients. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal to be done and much to be done, both in terms of creating a link with the labour market, which is good for the individual, but not least also in relation to the economy that is for both municipalities and communities. For example, the non-western immigrants and descendants constituted. a cost to public finances of approx. This 33 billion. kr. in 2014, and the primary explanation is a low link with the labour market. This is also what the new analysis has shown, which the Ministry of Finance published a very short time ago. The many figures speak their own clear and alarming language. We have simply not been good enough in Denmark to get people with a non-western background in work and away from public support. We are now faced with the result of decades of failed integration policy, one might call it the sins of the past, but in any case it is something that the government wants to do away with, and we are certainly in full swing. Our starting point is quite clear: The norm for everyone in Danish society must be that you support yourself, that you are available and that you have to do what you can to get into employment. Here it is crucial that employment policy, employment-oriented action in municipal job centres and our entire system of benefits have the same objective, namely that more people enter employment. That is why, firstly, we have taken action against newly arrived refugees and family reunifications. In addition to having introduced an integration benefit which significantly strengthens the incentive to enter employment, the new arrivals are now also meeting from day one with a clear expectation that they will be able to take a job. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will elaborate on this in a moment. Secondly, we have ensured that it is better to work for the many people who are over-represented in the public services, not least cash benefits, who have been here for a long time without having achieved a lasting foothold in the Danish labour market. As I said in my reply, we have taken many political initiatives together with the Danish People's Party. We have introduced a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule. We have done so because it is absolutely crucial that it pays to work rather than to be on public support. There must always be an incentive to choose an active working life, including when it comes to low-wage jobs. With the ceiling we have ensured that virtually all family types experience a gain of more than DKK 2,000. a month by getting into a job. With the 225-hour rule, we have made a clear demand that those who can contribute to the labour market, even if it is only a few hours a week. Otherwise, you can't raise cash benefits year after year. The 225-hour rule sends a clear signal to the immigrant couples, one of whom today is de facto at home on full cash benefits. The rule means that they may lose their cash benefits if they do not meet the employment requirement. Barely every three, per year. November 2016 is affected by the ceiling on cash benefits or the 225-hour rule, or both, are non-Western immigrants. That's a very big number. With the 225-hour rule, we support one of the basic elements of employment policy, namely that the individual is available for the labour market. Another fundamental element is the active employment effort. Here it is crucial that the municipalities increase their efforts for those on cash benefits, whether of Danish or foreign origin, because cash benefits are and must be a temporary substitute. I have made that clear on a number of occasions. Right now there are between 27,000 and 28,000 active cash benefits recipients who have been in the cash benefits system for at least five years. Of them, 37 percent have. neither received wage subsidies, business practices nor guidance and qualification in the last year. Among non-Western immigrants, 41 per cent have not received an offer in the past year. 26% has not received an offer in the last 2 years, and 17 per cent. has not received an offer in the last 3 years. So, unfortunately, the figures show that far too many cash aid recipients and too many people with a non-Western background are going around for far too long without having an effort to help them get closer to the labour market or to enter the labour market. Whatever the cause, it is simply not good enough. The municipalities must have a much greater focus on that area. This is due not only to the individual but also to the economy. In this context, I would like to highlight the municipality of Odense here today. After all, the Municipality of Odense has gone through a number of cases in which, in the light of health problems, cash benefit recipients have been freed from a job-oriented effort. Specifically, the municipality found in a sample that among non-Western immigrant women it was only one in ten who were actually so ill that they could not participate in active employment efforts. In other words, the immigrant women in Odense were wrongly left alone and were not helped to get closer to the labour market. Unfortunately, this shows that there is something to be done if the municipalities have these cases looked into. The Government will therefore take the initiative to investigate the use by municipalities of medical certificates in connection with visitation and available assessments in the cash assistance system. It is a discussion that has been held in the past, and not least the Danish People's Party has been preoccupied with and is still preoccupied with. I have also insisted to the municipalities that the rules on sanctions must be applied systematically and consistently if there are people who are actually not available for the labour market. There's no point in being afraid of touch here. It has become even more topical after the television broadcast which I myself did not have the opportunity to see but which was broadcast last night. I am once again sending out a clear signal that sanctions are possible, and I am sending out a clear signal to KL and the municipalities that this should be used and that this should be done. In addition, I have asked KL to make proposals for changes to the rules that can support consistent application of the sanctions rules and ensure that everyone is available and participates in offers. It is to say that if we can make the rules even clearer and even better than they are today, then I am willing to discuss it with the National Association of Municipalities. Together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I would like to consider, on the basis of the KL's proposal, what political initiatives may have to be taken both in order to have a more simplified system, but also in order to strengthen the sanctioning regime that applies. In addition, the pooling parties have set aside some 0.25 billion. kr. to clarify and help the 27,000 active cash aid recipients who have been in the system for at least 5 years. This is particularly true of immigrant women, who make up approx. 20% by the target group. The "Bet Pool Initiative" was reported to the municipalities in the country at the beginning of April. The money will be used primarily to hire more front workers in the job centres. This concerns, among other things: on job consultants and case managers who can help clarify the situation of the 27 000 or so people in the target group and ensure that they are subsequently helped further. The initiative also includes those citizens who must have their case submitted to the municipality's rehabilitation team for early retirement, resource development or flex jobs. I would also like to point out that in connection with the issue of the pool, a decision has been taken that the municipalities will receive the money in three instalments. This must ensure that the municipalities invest first in several front workers, then that the municipalities clarify the situation of the citizens, and finally that the municipalities ensure that the active cash aid recipients get a business-oriented effort and a personal job agent, because that is some of the things we know to work. After all, it is not only a gain for the individual but also for society, which at least saves DKK 250,000 each time a cash benefit recipient goes from public support to a full-time job. As part of the implementation of the pool, it has also been decided that an ambassador's corps will be appointed to help spread the good experience in this area to the whole country. The ambassadors are employees in municipalities who have particularly good experience in helping vulnerable citizens to small jobs. Let me also mention in this debate that I am very concerned to find out how we can make the good results spread like rings in the water, because there are certainly municipalities other than Odense that can learn from the experience that has been gained here. The Ambassador Corps is one means. Another means is that we create more openness about the achievements of the municipalities through benchmarking. We are therefore in the process of developing a benchmark tool to show which municipalities are doing the best and where you can look if you as a municipality want to be inspired. It is important that municipalities are given the opportunity to be inspired and taught by each other. I will do my best to create transparency and more knowledge of who, overall, is doing well and who is doing it less well. This is not least an important tool for a great many municipal politicians who can, of course, gain even more knowledge of what is happening there and, above all, of which municipalities have an effective employment policy. Finally, I would like to mention that the government has great ambitions to debureaucratise and simplify employment efforts as well. The objective is clear: employees in the public sector must have time to solve core tasks instead of wasting time on unnecessary controls, paperwork and much more. The citizens must have meaningful efforts that can be understood. I believe that a simplified employment effort, in which employees in the job centres will have more time for core tasks, will get more in work and away from public support. This also applies, for that matter, to persons of foreign origin. Basically, it is basically common sense. That and much more I look forward to discussing with Parliament's parties here today, and I would like to emphasise once again that the issue that has been announced today, which is the subject of the question debate, is a very relevant and, above all, crucial issue in order to ensure a higher employment rate for those who are not in the labour market today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428101815	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428101822	I would also like to thank you very much for the question here today. The question arises as to what I can tell you about employment for people of foreign origin in Denmark and what I intend to do to make that group contribute more to the labour market. First of all, I would like to stress that I am of the very clear position that everyone who lives in Denmark should contribute to Danish society, and I will do my part to that too. When we entered the former V government in the summer of 2015, the overriding challenge was to sort out the violent influx of refugees to Denmark that we saw. With the latest figures in the area of asylum, I think I dare venture to claim that we have come quite a long way in dealing with the influx since 2015, but that does not mean that the work has been done and done, on the contrary. Now it is important to ensure that we do not repeat decades of failed integration policy, but that we meet the foreigners who come to Denmark with a clear expectation that we should take an active part in society, that we support ourselves and our family, and that the norm in Denmark is precisely self-supporting through employment. It is wrong enough that so few immigrants and descendants are in work and that so many are on public support. The fact that we know that it is women with a non-Western background who are not in the labour market is no better than that, and it is quite wrong and unacceptable when the lack of participation in the labour market is due to standards and values that have been taken away from home. They do not belong in Denmark. Here you are on the labour market, whether you are a woman or a man. An important step towards better integration was taken with the introduction of the integration benefit in September 2015, right after the accession of the V government. It should not be attractive to come to Denmark and receive high social benefits, and just as important is that it should pay off to work. Because it is not fair that there is no significant economic difference between whether you go to work every day and at the same time make everyday life stick together or whether you are outside the labour market and are supported by the public sector. When you do not work, you are also not part of the community which the labour market is also, which is so central in Denmark, and which is a prerequisite for the success of integration in the broad sense. The introduction of the benefits of integration cannot, of course, be left alone, nor can it. That is why the government, having brought the economic incentives into a better balance, took up a fundamental change in the demands we make and the help we provide for new arrivals when they are to be integrated into Denmark. In 2016, we made an ambitious, I think I dare say, agreement with both municipalities and the social partners in order to make it easier for those who have recently come to the country to get a foot in the labour market. We went to turn the approach to integration, so we are now saying that we must contribute and we must make an active effort. First of all, it is a question of making rapid contact with the labour market. All newcomers must now meet with a clear expectation that they can and must contribute. Everyone is now ready for work until proven otherwise, and must quickly enter jobs or into business-oriented offers. With basic integration training, refugees and families brought together to refugees have completely new opportunities to get into work, to have access to both practical training in a company and to publicly paid education with a professional qualification and Danish education. I firmly believe that, with the many initiatives contained in the two and three-way agreements, we have embarked on a new approach to the integration task, and frankly this is also necessary. Although it is far too early to comment categorically on the effects, I think we should actually welcome the fact that we can see that the figures are moving in the right direction. The proportion of employees and employed refugees and family members with three years' residence is e.g. increased from 23 to 28 per cent. for the period from December 2015 to December 2016. In addition to the economic aspect, integration policy and the policy put in place by the government are also about an uproar with the misguided tolerance and consideration that has previously influenced the approach to new entrants. In addition to the fact that we cannot afford to have a financial bill, yes, let us be quite specific, of 33 billion. kr. We have been talking about demands and expectations for everyone, we have been talking about this for a very, very long time, but we have just not followed it up sufficiently. But when you live in Denmark, you have to learn the language, and you have to take the Danish value set into account. So it is the norm in this country that you support yourself and your family. It is of no use that we dare not talk about issues because they may be perceived by some as controversial. We need to say things openly and honestly as they are and to say frankly that it is no use keeping non-western immigrant women out of the labour market. We can and must push to break the traditions that we know there are that keep non-western immigrant women out of the labour market. When you are in Denmark, Danish traditions govern. We do not have stereotypes of gender roles, which are reflected in social control, on the contrary. Everybody's equal here. We owe it to Danish society and, above all, to the young girls and women whom this is all about, if they are excluded from the labour market, and if they are kept in a firm grip of social control, that they have the same opportunities as everyone else does in Denmark, opportunities for education, opportunities for jobs, opportunities to decide for themselves. We must make clear demands and expectations for newly arrived foreigners, regardless of gender. I believe that, with the measures taken over the last two years, we have taken some very important steps towards better integration, but we are so far from achieving this right now. That is why I am pleased that we are taking the debate here today. I hope, then, that we take it honestly, say what it is that works and what it is that does not work and are not afraid to discuss the things that are perceived by some as controversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428102701	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428102717	First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for answering the question. After all, we cannot ask the ministers questions about the answer, so I hope that the government will take the floor again later so that we can ask some questions about what the government has presented today. For this we have decidedly asked some good questions from the Danish People's Party. Because we demand action from both the government and a majority here in the Folketing. The TV 2 program is how you become Danish? For example: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Many did not show up for their language practice. A person wouldn't take his hat off at work and you could say that he went home in protest, and one left earlier to pick up children, even though you knew you had to stay there until 8:00. 4:00 p.m. Well, it was a slendrian without an equal, and it was just those who showed up, because there was actually a lot that didn't show up at all. A lot of people didn't care and didn't want to contribute. An incredibly bad work ethic was involved. There was a single woman who really went to the one she also said: to work is to live and what she saw was that she was so in turn talked down to by the others, that is to contribute and just want to work. That is not acceptable, but it is unacceptable. The latest figure from the Minister of Integration's Ministry shows, among other things, that 84 per cent. of the Syrians in Denmark are without work, and for Somalis it is for example. 65% It's not okay, and it's a huge, huge problem. There are far too many actions taking place today, where it is that cultural and religious considerations are shown, saying that it is okay that they do not want to work with pork, that it is okay that they do not want to take off the scarf. But it's not okay. Because if you come here to Denmark, you have to conform to the conditions that are here and the demands that are made on you in the labour market. That is what we must all do if we want to be self-sufficient. There is much more need to be taken away from services. That is our position and we have been working for too long. We are now hearing that the government will also go into that matter with its forehead upright and do something about it. I am therefore in doubt as to what can actually happen when it is that the government will only send signals to the KL to be consistent. In general, we should not integrate refugees into this country. Refugees should not be turned into immigrants. That is what is happening today and it is not right. Last year, the TV 2 programmes revealed the mosques behind the veil also how Muslim women were kept in a strong social control and were kept out of the labour market. Because that integration thing and becoming Danish was obviously the root of all evil. Of course it was fine with the social benefits... but you would prefer to live in your own parallel society. I believe this and the Danish People's Party are deeply outraged. We must help these people back to a place where they feel much better with their culture and with their faith, and it is not within the borders of this kingdom. Immigrants and descendants of non-Western origin cost the public coffers 33 billion in 2014. kr. That is roughly 90 million. kr. during the day, and that was before more than 21,000 new migrants migrated to Denmark up the motorways. That is why the cost of everything else must be much higher today. The money comes out of the public funds, and a majority of the Folketing, including the government, sits on their hands. We often talk about the sustainability of the Danish economy. Some parties propose that we Danes should be longer in the labour market, while people are walking around in Denmark who will not contribute and therefore cost 33 billion. kr. annual net. There have been countless integration plans, but none of them have worked, so why does the government believe, in relation to the answer they have come up with today, that they have just now found the Columbus egg that will turn upside down the development that has been going on for decades? Because there are no plans for integration that have actually worked. You have to pay to enjoy. That will be my final comment. I have to read out a proposal for adoption and the President must apologize, I had completely forgotten that which has been put forward by the Danish People's Party. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes: 49 per cent. of the 25-64-year-olds of non-Western origin, despite countless years in the country, are not in work and thus burdening the public economy inappropriately. In 2014, non-western immigrants and descendants cost the Danish state 33 billion. kr. changing integration efforts towards non-western immigrants and descendants have not proved attractive and the overall integration task has proved impossible. This is due to the cultural and religious background of large non-western immigration. Parliament therefore instructs the government to draw up a return strategy so that non-western immigrants in Denmark, who do not want to integrate and contribute to society, are sent to their home country. V 89).
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103327	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103335	Thank you. There is something I do not really understand in the arguments of the Danish People's Party. Most of it is about those refugees and immigrants now just finding a job as if it were something that hung on the trees, but the rapporteur obviously thinks it does. That is the one thing they say. But then comes the clear message that we have heard several times in this Chamber: refugees should not be integrated into Danish society. So I just ask: why do they have to go to the labour market? Because that is the way to integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103414	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103417	The rapporteur from the Enhedslisten says that jobs are not on trees. At any rate, I would say that there have been over 800,000 job openings within a whole year. At least I have recorded that in the latest figures. So there's actually a job to get. But it is a lot about attitude, and as long as you are here, we in the Danish People's Party believe that you should contribute. But we think it is a problem for refugees to be turned into immigrants, because we have seen for decades that they are unintegrable, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are saying that we should have a return strategy for those groups of refugees that it is not possible to integrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103457	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103459	Thank you. Now job openings are not the same as there are enough jobs available for the many unemployed we have. We have over 180,000 active job seekers who cannot find a job. That's reality. So you can't talk away from that. The rapporteur has not explained himself at all. The Danish People's Party has the view that refugees should not be integrated as the only party in this Parliament. It is a clear policy, but then it is totally contradictory to punk refugees because they are not in the labour market. Because that is where integration takes place, so it is not connected at all. If we succeed in getting refugees into the labour market, then integration will begin quietly. All the other parties in the Folketing agree on this. Despite all kinds of other disagreements, all other parties agree that the best way to become part of Danish society is to get started on the labour market. So that is completely contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103608	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103610	I completely disagree with that. Unlike Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party is in fact pursuing a consistent policy in this area, and I think it would suit Enhedslisten's rapporteur to have a little sense of reality in relation to what is going on. You could start by watching the TV 2 program that was yesterday called "Is that how you become Danish?" Here it turns out that there are very, very many of these refugees who have unacceptable behaviour and a very bad attitude towards taking a job. There you could start by diving from the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103649	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428103707	The Danish Parliament has been discussing this topic for many, many years, and countless are the experiments initiated by both municipalities and the social partners and the Danish Parliament. Nevertheless, foreigners from non-western countries have had a significantly lower employment rate in Danish society, especially women. We must recognise that it is harder, demands more, costs more and takes longer to replant people from other cultures to the highly specialised Danish labour market. But, of course, we should not give up. On the contrary, it is our duty as a society to learn from the numerous mistakes and also from the success stories that are now part of our common experience. The first important lesson is that the number of new residence permits means a lot to the opportunities for our society to ensure good integration at work. Of course, there are a few refugees who walk right behind a desk as software programmers or building engineers. I think we've all seen TV shows about it, and that's of course only good. It is nice to see Danish companies, employees and refugees get together for the joy and benefit of all. But when the TV's off, we have to be honest with each other too. There's a very long way between those stories. The vast majority of refugees and their families are unskilled. Many are illiterate, and some have never had what we understand as a wage job. Most of them won't be chief doctors for a while. In the first place, the vast majority have to find unskilled work in a labour market for unskilled workers, which is already becoming smaller and smaller. The new citizens are therefore at the job centre and will have to talk to the same case workers who will help the Danish unskilled to get started. They call the same companies in the same industries and look for the same job openings. We therefore ask again the lowest paid and the shortest educated Danes to take a step to the side and create room for more. When another well-paid and well-trained person says that we have room for more foreigners, I understand if there should be one unemployed unskilled and think: Who are we? It seems that they are the ones who have enough room for more. In practice, it is the unskilled who have to fight for the same hours as the cleaning assistant or warehouse worker or on weekend shifts in the dishes. Although new figures show that there is an increase in the number of refugees and family members who have been given jobs, it is still from a very low level. Within five years, it has gone from 6%. 12 per cent, and that, of course, is good. But that is far from good enough. Other studies at the same time document that foreigners find it difficult to get really stuck in the Danish labour market. The final price for the lower employment rate has been discussed, but at least there is a considerable amount of billions. It is money that could otherwise have been spent on home help, schools or emergency aid in the neighbourhood. That is why, of course, we should take an interest in the economic side of the matter. However, it is at least as important that the Folketing also addresses the social consequences of the excessive number of foreign families who do not receive payrolls in their e-box, but letters from the job centre. People do not benefit from permanent support from others. We need to contribute in order to be there. Children need to see their mother and father go to work. Children need parents who have something else to tell you about than what's been on Arab television all day. Everyone benefits from the fact that money comes from work and not from the municipality. Every time a parent gets a good job, children's chances of getting an education and a good life increase. No social policy is better than permanent work. That is why we have supported basic integration training with all its minor shortcomings and that is why we have proposed that vocational training should be included in the employment requirement for a permanent residence permit. That is why we have supported the City of Odense in their efforts to turn the bunkers around and insist that the many immigrant women who have something to contribute also get something to contribute to. Therefore, we are opposed to the Danish first, work afterwards. We are in favour of work first, Danish in the meantime, and that is why we have proposed that the training course which currently applies to young people may also be extended to some of the immigrant women who have been on cash aid for a long time. Social democracy is in favour of a strict immigration policy because we want to reduce the number of asylum seekers and family members from non-western countries. We're happy to be able to get together with the government on this. At the same time, however, we are of the opinion that integration policy has lagged a little lately. We hope that today's debate on the question will help us to give political attention to ensuring that the new citizens have a place in our society and some tasks, some responsibility and some dignity. We also have a text for adoption, and I shall read the following on behalf of the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption New figures show that the number of refugees and family members of refugees who have been given jobs has tripled. It's very pleasing. Every time five of these citizens get to work, it strengthens the economy by a million kroner. In addition, even more families gain the joy and pride of earning their own money and contributing to society. At the same time, however, the Folketing is aware that too many refugees and family members are still on public support. It is neither economically nor humanly sustainable. The Danish Parliament therefore supports the political initiatives agreed with the social partners and the National Association of Municipalities. The Danish Parliament also expresses its support for the fact that more and more refugees are being declared ready for work and, at the same time, encourages companies and employees to welcome foreigners who are trying to gain a foothold on the Danish labour market. • V 90).
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104234	Thank you. This proposal is also part of the further discussion. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104242	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'd like to ask Mr. Mattia Tesfaye about something. When it comes, for example. is such that 80%. of all Syrians are outside the labour market, which is a very, very high figure, is not the time to see that the very, very many integration plans that have been over time I think it has not worked and that there is no indication that the many integration programmes are going to work? For all experience shows that in many areas we are simply too different cultural, social and so on. That is why I would like to hear whether the Socialists would be helping to change course, so that we focus much more on creating a repatriation strategy for every refugee coming to Denmark instead of making integration plans, and that we focus on implementing more tightening of asylum policy, so that fewer people get here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104334	Finally, I can say that we have been pleased to participate in the tightening up of asylum policy, which ensures that fewer residence permits are issued. First of all, we are not opposed to integration, although it is our view that people who are here on a temporary residence permit must of course be here for a limited period of time and that, to the extent that they have not been granted a permanent residence permit, they are aware that the ambition is that if there is peace or it will be possible to go home, it will be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104400	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104404	Let me ask you another way. Does the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a need for proposals to be put forward in this Chamber which serve the purpose of further limiting the flow? And if the Social Democrats mean it, will the Social Democrats themselves make some proposals? Because we can have a discussion about whether all those who have now arrived should be integrated or whether they should be repatriated. And then we can disagree on that. But if you have the view that the fewer there will be, the easier it is to make those who are here settle in, then it must mean that the Social Democrats want more austerity. Does the Social Democratic Party plan to make proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, which, if implemented, will mean fewer asylum seekers coming to Denmark so that the number can go even further down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104448	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104450	We believe that the number of asylum seekers in 2015 was too high. It fell in 2016, but we also think that figure is too high, which is why we have supported the proposals for tightening up, and we will not refuse to support other proposals for tightening up the law on foreigners. We ourselves do not have anything on the way, but if the Danish People's Party has something on the way, we are very interested in discussing those proposals if they intend to reduce the number of asylum seekers who are seeking against Denmark • yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104519	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104522	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It is, of course, gratifying to hear in reply to Mr. Martin Henriksen, that the Social Democrats are ready to discuss further tightenings, but is this also true of a return strategy for the refugees who are in this country who do not contribute to Danish society? Is that true?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104541	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104543	If there are foreigners in Denmark who have a permanent residence permit, we do not think it makes any sense to draw up a return strategy for them, even if they have been on cash benefits for some time. But if it is people who are here on a temporary residence permit, and especially of course if it is people who are here on tolerated residence, and if it is rejected asylum seekers, then of course we are very interested in discussing what it takes to have more of them sent home. It's just easier said than done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104615	Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104617	I think that was a very vague answer, which was by no means clear. I also hear that the rapporteur says that integration policy in this country has lagged behind. Well, how did it limp? After all, the Socialists themselves have been in power for very, very many years before, and nothing has been done there. You have had four years in government before the present government took office. Nothing happened either. It is gratifying that you are joining in some tightenings along with among others. The Danish People's Party and the current government, but what more is needed? What is this Columbus egg that the Socialists have now found that enables us to ensure integration in this area? Because in the Danish People's Party we don't see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104659	Thank you. I just want to say that you don't have to address each other directly in here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104707	I don't know if I think that's a vague answer I'm coming with. The Danish People's Party member of the Folketing Marlene Harpsøe asks me whether the Social Democratic Party will be involved in a return strategy for foreigners who do not actively contribute to Danish society. To that I would say: foreigners are people who do not have Danish citizenship, but if they have a permanent residence permit, it is not the policy of the Social Democratic Party that a return strategy should be drawn up for them. I think that is a fairly clear answer. With regard to other foreigners who do not have a permanent residence permit, and here, of course, I emphasise particularly rejected asylum seekers, people who are on tolerating us, we are more than willing to discuss what it takes to have them sent home. So I'm just asking that when we discuss the possibility of repatriating foreigners, we try to separate those who have permanent residence permits and those who do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104755	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104800	Thank you, President. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on actually addressing the issue, in contrast to the reality-resistant utopians from the Enhedslisten, and I think the rapporteur does. I just have a fundamental problem with the integration strategies that have been, and here I am not criticising the government or changing governments, but I criticise the mentality problem that I think lies in it: the fact that, year after year, it has been said that refugees must be turned into immigrants from day to day, they must be integrated into Danish society, etc. etc. And you have spent an incredible amount of money on that, and you have spent an incredible amount of energy and set up a lot of plans to make this happen, and then it just turns out that time and again it collapses. I would like to say that it is not time for us to take a real look at this and say that the task undertaken by the Danish welfare state in relation to these integration projects is simply an impossible task and cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104908	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428104910	Is the glass half full or is it half empty? Integration is going badly, and integration has gone badly for several decades, but I think it is wrong to conclude that integration into Danish society for foreigners coming from, for example. non-western countries are impossible. We must remember that, although there is a significant over-representation of foreigners from non-western countries in crime statistics and in unemployment figures, the figures also reveal that the majority of people who are living in Denmark and from a non-Western country are law-abiding people who have a job that raises their children properly and who are good and decent citizens of our society. The figures cover that too. So it is true that we have problems with integration, but it is wrong to conclude that this is not possible. We are great supporters of an integration policy, and we believe it would be mistaken if we told people who were granted asylum in Denmark that the ambition was not that they should become part of Danish society, but that the ambition was that they should be isolated from Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105012	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105014	Yes, but my starting point has been to make it clear that I actually believe that refugees should be taken care of as best you can, but they shouldn't become Danish citizens. I simply do not think so per year. definition they must. I believe that what must be the purpose is for them to come back again. That is the starting point for being a fugitive. What is the problem with regard to the integration strategy with which I think successive governments have been working is that one per. definition just says: If you have entered Danish soil as a refugee and get asylum status, you must per. definition is integrated into Danish society and eventually become a Danish citizen. I am simply opposed to all this thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105102	It is an honest matter to be against that thinking, but the alternative to that thinking is that people stay in Denmark, get protection in Denmark, but do not become part of Danish society, and that is to say that they would be on permanent support in some refugee camps in Denmark, and I do not think that is sustainable, neither economically nor humanly. Should you imagine children growing up there for 2, 3, 10, 15 years and not learning Danish, not seeing their family being part of the Danish labour market? I do not think that is sustainable. Then I think it is more sustainable to have an integration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105135	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105138	Thank you. I do not think there is any doubt that we all agree that the integration efforts since 1980 have failed completely. We do not need to discuss this much. When you look at those who come to Denmark, who can then stay in Denmark and at a successful approach to the labour market, will the rapporteur recognise that where there is a successful approach, there is where the immigrant and the refugee themselves make a very great effort to adapt to Danish society? In other words, in order to succeed, we have to make demands on them and tell them that they can drop all special requirements when they come to Denmark. And they really need to know that from the beginning when they come to Denmark: Forget about special treatment, forget about special dress, forget about special food requirements, but adapt to the society that you say you will be in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105231	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105233	I think it is important that we tell people that it is possible to be a Muslim and live in Denmark. But where religion collides with democracy, it is God who has a duty to give way. I think that can be made very clear. This means that where there are some religious requirements as to how life should be organized, how society should be organized, it is fine that they have the ideas that collide with the decisions we have made in the government of the people, and with what is the cornerstones of Denmark, it must be their religion that has a duty to give way. And that is no problem for the people who have taken it to heart, and fortunately there are plenty of Muslims who have, and who have made their religion function excellent in Danish society, but where they do not want to take that approach, it causes problems. I agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105321	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105323	Thank you. What I am also thinking of is when they get to work where some people start to make special demands that they will be allowed to wear a certain dress. We saw it in that show where someone went home because he was wearing a hat. There are other places where people come up here, take the cap or take off the veil because they want to adapt. There was also the Syrian in the broadcast from Bilka, who was wearing a veil, and when she was employed by Montana Furniture, she was not wearing a veil. It's a way to adapt. You find that if you want something, you have to make a lot of effort yourself, otherwise you will never get a foothold on the labour market, because employers are therefore making demands. We also see it in the abattoirs, where they say: Forget all that about praying; you can do that at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105413	Yeah, we both agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105417	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105420	In fact, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a rather more nuanced speech than the very first one we heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I would have expected that too, of course, but what I like about it, despite disagreements in a number of specific policies, is that the rapporteur looks at things in a nuance and highlights the bright aspects of the good stories. So thank you for that. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what is the rapporteur's view of the massive use of work experience, particularly in relation to the group of refugees, but also in relation to other unemployed people, and who in very few cases get an ordinary job around 10%. of them get an ordinary job. The Danish Employers' Association came here a few days ago with a statement that it is only 7%. of those who carry out an internship that gets an ordinary job. What is the rapporteur's position on this method? And is there no reason to be a little aware that perhaps this is actually about something quite different, namely that the unemployed, including refugees, are widely used as free labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105529	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105531	Basically, I think it is best for people to have a regular work covered by collective agreements. But I also have to deal with the employment policy initiatives they have in the drawers of the Danish job centres, because we know with quite a lot of certainty that what works is getting into a workplace and that what does not work is sitting in the circle of some private player drawing drawings or making spaghetti models or some other activation that we have heard about, which is not employment-oriented. So I am not opposed to company practice or basic integration training, wage subsidies or anything else going on on the boards in the Danish business community, because that is what works. It is, of course, true that this is a real dilemma, and that is why our challenge is, on the one hand, to use these employment-oriented activation efforts and, on the other hand, to ensure that they are not abused. I think it is a very central part of the legislation that what is supported work should also be additional work, that is to say, additional work should be some work that would otherwise not have been carried out and I think we can agree that there is a need for a few places to tighten up on whether that part of the legislation is also being enforced well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105644	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105646	Thank you. I have a different view of what this company practice is being used for, and there are differences between the various instruments, such as: is a wage subsidy. The best is an ordinary job on ordinary terms, where the employer pays what he has to pay in relation to the agreement, but if we are talking about wage subsidies, which are not an excellent arrangement, there is, after all, much better experience of the job effect of wage subsidies, i.e. the possibility of getting an ordinary job afterwards. But I will come back to that in my rapporteur's speech and will cling to what the rapporteur said at the end, namely that there is a need for some tightening up. For the rapporteur was concerned about something that I also very much agree with. It is of course pointless for refugees to enter the labour market, displace ordinary jobs and close the door to the many unemployed we already have. So will the rapporteur elaborate on the tools needed to ensure this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105737	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105739	This is among other things. Danish Supermarket, which has been criticized for having a large share of unemployed people walking for free, and in this connection I contacted a large warehouse in the West, where I myself was chosen, to ask how it works and if I could meet some of them and something like that. What the warehouse manager told me, I brought home, and it was: Well, Mattias, we don't want to be accused of this at all. If we're gonna be, we can just say no. They kind of feel like they're doing society a favor. They're not the ones calling down to the job center asking to get people into business practice. After all, it is the job centre that calls them and asks them if they will not take another in company practice, for example. A fugitive. I think we, as politicians, should take a little notice of that too. It is our system that pushes them into Bilka, it is not Bilka who is calling and asking for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Klaus Markussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428105842	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for this question debate, as others have also stressed today, it is an important debate which, of course, is about our labour market and not least about how we get more people into the working community. It is deeply worrying that few refugees and immigrants are at work, and even more worrying is the fact that many are on public support, which the Minister for Employment just ago put very concrete figures on. Frankly, that's not good enough. The Left has the clear ambition that everyone living in Denmark should contribute to society. This also means that as many people as possible should be in employment. As far as the many refugees who come here are concerned, we have a goal that every other person should be part of the labour market after three years in the country. It is an ambitious objective, but Denmark must be open to well-qualified foreigners • people who come here with the desire, ability and appetite to make a difference. We have previously been, I think one can say too good of us touching. Integration takes place when we make demands and when we formulate expectations. We are in the middle of an economic recovery. One in three Danish companies hungers for skilled labour. That is why it is also important that, with today's debate, we open our eyes to the skilled labour we receive with immigration. Some refugees and immigrants can go directly to work, as others have said here today, while others need us to help as a society. What is crucial is that we demand that you contribute and are self-supporting through employment in Denmark. That is why the Left is deeply concerned about strengthening the association of refugees and immigrants with the working community. It is important that we ensure that refugees and immigrants have contact, knowledge and links with the labour market. That is why, with the introduction of the integration service, we have brought the economic incentives into balance. Work must always be worthwhile and there must be a tangible economic benefit from being in work rather than being on passive public support. We must remember that the Community in the workplace is a vital prerequisite for integration. In addition, we, together with the municipalities and the social partners, concluded two and three-way agreements where integration training, the so-called igu, with company practice, school programmes and Danish education is absolutely central. With the Igu, we ensure that those who come here find a foothold in the labour market, which will later give a good start to a future job in Denmark. The two-part agreement consists of a number of ambitious and more flexible initiatives for the integration efforts of the municipalities. First of all, the municipality now meets refugees as a job preparation, and then we have strengthened the business-oriented efforts with the Igu. The two-part agreement is result-oriented and therefore it is economically attractive for the municipalities to intensify the integration processes. Unfortunately, right now we see that some municipalities are not consistent enough when it comes to sanctions in the integration service. I can tell you that we have a lot of work ahead of us. In June last year, only 327 of more than 4,600 non-western immigrant women were declared ready for work. The last 4,300 women were declared ready for activity. An analysis from Danmarks Statistik unfortunately supports these worrying figures. Non-Western immigrant women are only half as much employed as women of Danish origin. Odense Municipality sees a similar trend, and they then turned, if you may say so, the stack of cash aid cases on their heads. In close cooperation with the municipal social doctor and local doctors, they launched a focused effort for the activity-ready citizens. In a multidisciplinary community of case workers, management and doctors, they examined the cases together and found that with the provision of spare services, nine out of ten cash aid recipients could have a link with the labour market. In my view, the model of Odense must undoubtedly inspire the other municipalities in the country. It is important that we share good experiences with each other, because if we move 5,000 into jobs, it gives an annual gain of a total of 1.25 billion. kr. We cannot close our eyes to the refugee crisis that is pushing the whole of Europe, but we can create the best conditions for the people who come to Denmark to believe that globalisation is a gain for the individual and for our community. We best take care of our Danish values by linking them to the labour market as soon as possible. The Ministry of Finance's analysis of refugees' net contributions speaks a language that can hardly be misunderstood. The people who come to Denmark to work give an economic plus on the state accounts. And we see right now that foreign workers take both unskilled and highly specialised jobs. Danish companies must benefit from immigration, because Denmark wins when ideas, labour and goods cross national borders. It is therefore essential that we continue to make demands and formulate expectations for the refugees and immigrants who come to Denmark. Then I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that 25-64-year-old non-western immigrants are out of work and thus often receive transfer income, and that non-western immigrants and descendants in 2014 amounted to a net cost of 33 billion. kr. The government is therefore working to exploit the recovery to create more jobs. the enhanced repatriation efforts agreed with the most recent Finance Act can be further strengthened. • V 91).
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110607	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. This proposal is also part of the further debate. But there are a few brief comments. Here you go to Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110620	Thank you, sir. Klaus Markussen for the rapporteur's speech. After all, we fully agree that everyone should contribute. But now we in the Danish People's Party have also found that there have been a great many, indeed countless, integration plans, and everyone has failed. Now, together with the government, the Left has decided that every other person should be part of the labour market after three years. What exactly is it about your integration plan now that will have an effect when all other integration plans have failed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110654	It's government and not yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110701	Thank you for that clarification. Let me give you four specific examples. Firstly, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have helped to ensure that it is now attractive to work rather than to be on passive support. Secondly, there is a continued focus on this not accepting that you can walk around on cash benefits for years without a job-oriented effort, in other words further inspiration from what happened and has happened in Odense Municipality. Thirdly, there is a further call for us to ensure, through benchmarks and comparisons of municipal efforts, that we disseminate knowledge about who is doing well and has found some good ways to handle the tasks, i.e. that it can be shared with the other municipalities. Fourthly, there is one example I would like to mention: the whole focus on debureaucratising and simplifying the employment effort for the many employees in the municipalities, in particular, who work with this area. I think it is important that we let these initiatives work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110812	Thank you. It's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110816	Thank you. After all, we agree that demands must be made. And, of course, from the government, you have now put forward a text for adoption in which, among other things, you. Says you're gonna focus on this with the consequences. Excuse me? The rapporteur must comply with the fact that there is no direct indictment). I'm very, very sorry. I'm so sorry. The rapporteur does not need to be, as long as he is doing the right thing). I understand that the rapporteur wants to see demands made on foreigners coming here to Denmark and that a consistent policy should be pursued in this area. How, in concrete terms, will it be ensured that the municipalities are living up to the opportunities provided by the legislation in order to draw on the benefits of those who do not comply with the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110913	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110919	I think everyone here is playing on the same level and according to the same goal. I also noted that the Minister for Employment, in his speech earlier here today, drew attention to the contacts and calls that have been made to the municipalities and to the National Association of Municipalities. I believe that we must stick to the fact that this is a task we have together, and it is a task where we must spread and ensure that the very good ways of those who do well are highlighted and that the others and we use the good examples to be inspired.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428110954	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111004	Thanks for the speech. I would also like to say that I think we have worked well with the Left and also with the government in relation to foreign policy. I would like to acknowledge that. And I think you can divide the Folketing into two categories. There are realists on one side, and then there are utopians on the other side. And that is where I firmly believe that the Left belongs to the realists. When I take the floor anyway, it is because I believe that something remains to be desired. I believe that globalisation and the whole of that globalisation holocaust have some negative aspects that I think need to be addressed in this. And then I would say: isn't the truth, when it comes to the matter, the fact that because you think it is unpleasant to make a definite return strategy, where you tell the people who come to the country that they are going home at some point, you try to put an integration project in the lake that doesn't have a Chinese man's chance to survive? It will collapse like the other integration projects, because it is therefore also a utopia that you can just say, by magic, that people are going to work now. I'm usually in favour of making demands on people. I just think that this is simply a utopia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111111	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111114	Thank you. We share the view that this isn't a walk in the park or something that comes by itself. As you know, nothing other than pocket wool does. It takes a focused effort. This requires an orchestral effort, and it requires cooperation between Parliament, government and municipalities, which must keep a common goal in mind, namely to ensure that you are here in Denmark, and you live here in Denmark, so you make a positive contribution to this society. And that's what you do best by being in employment. And there I believe, and there is the position of the Left, that we must play on all the keys that are on the piano to make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111157	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are no more comments. Yes, sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111204	Yeah, but there's something I just have to arrest, because I think this is what's gonna be the discussion in the future. Well, we're moving into something where the problems will just grow year by year. And I think we'll just have to make that clear. At least that's my starting point. And there I simply believe that the realization of truth is essential in terms of recognising the solutions. I simply believe that there is a fundamental problem in turning refugees into immigrants from day one. I simply believe that the Danish welfare state has undertaken a task that it cannot solve. And it will have consequences for our children and grandchildren that you simply turn refugees into immigrants. I think it is quite wrong, and I think it is actually time for us to try together to change paths and then say: now is the starting point for people to actually go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111300	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111303	Thank you. I take the view that it is not so much a question of whether or not, but more of a question of how. It is true that for people living here in Denmark, there is a marked difference in whether you make a positive economic difference for Denmark, depending on whether you are in employment or not in employment. And for the Left, it is important that if you are here in Denmark, you participate in the working community and make a positive contribution to this society, both human, social and economic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111341	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. We need a new rapporteur, and that's Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111358	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the question being raised, but when you hear the questioner presenting it now I do not know if the questioner has time to listen; I think I have received her attention, and thank you for that one thinks: then we are here again. There has been a television broadcast on TV 2 with some boring examples of how some people have dealt with an internship, which leads the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to say the following generalisation about an entire population, namely non-western refugees and immigrants, and I quote: 'You want to take advantage of social benefits, but you do not want to work'. That is something I note. So thank you for such a very good, constructive approach to how we should get good cooperation with people who are now in this country. I hope the rapporteur understands the irony. Then there will also be a mix-up in the debate here. After all, we are talking about two different groups here for different reasons that apply to different rules for their stay, they have different challenges, and that is why it is also different solutions that need to be found. The two groups I am talking about are, of course, refugees and immigrants. They're two different groups. If we take the refugees first, what the name says is people who have been resident in this country because they are fleeing from war, torture and personal persecution. As a starting point, they have to return home when it is safe and safe to feel, and most would like to. But as long as they are here, they must be dealt with, just as we ourselves would like to be dealt with in that situation. They must have an offer to become part of Danish society. They must have a decent place to live and offer jobs and education. But about half of them are plagued by various sufferings and, above all, traumas following the violent experiences they have experienced. They should not be chased into a labour market where they know neither the language nor the culture. They must be treated and helped to get on their feet, just as we would treat Danish citizens in that situation, and they are given too little help. The other half must be offered an ordinary job as soon as possible so that they can support themselves and their family while they are here. That is also the reason used for all refugees, and now I am talking about the majority here, including the vulnerable group, unfortunately going into business practice from day one. But that's just not what's happening. They're not offered an ordinary job. We are increasingly using the tool known as business practice where it is documented, also with the reply from the Minister to me, that only 10% of people get an ordinary job after they have completed their internship. The rest is used as free or cheap labour, especially in supermarkets, construction markets and cleaning. We are not talking about small things. In 2015, there were refugees in business practice corresponding to 8,602 full-time persons • 8,602 full-time persons. It is jobs that should have been carried out and paid under normal contractual conditions. If we take the Danish Supermarket and that was the other side of TV 2's broadcast, it is that they have focused on how the internship actually takes place there at Dansk Supermarket, and the figures we have also received from the Minister have they in 2015 8.961 people through company practice. They are not all refugees, but they are by far the majority of them. This corresponds to 1,390 full-time employees or a saved wage cost of 417 million. kr. At the same time, the Danish Supermarket says that they clearly state that they have no intention of employing people in ordinary jobs, because if they were to commit themselves to something like this, they couldn't have all these people walking. It was interesting to see how Danish Crown tackles this situation. That is the positive example, because it says to these refugees: we want to make use of your labour, we want to do so as soon as possible in a situation where you get an ordinary job. And what was the result? The vast majority of them completed the internship and they got the job. My main objection to the labour market policy which is being pursued against refugees and, indeed, to a large extent towards the non-western immigrant group is precisely that they are being used as free labour. It is harmful to integration, and it is harmful to the Danish workers. Time has passed, I think, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111908	That's right. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428111914	I would be delighted if the reality were to take root at some point in the political beliefs of the Enhedslisten. I'd be so glad to hear that. I simply think that there is a utopian, abstract, distant relationship with everything that surrounds us that I do not understand. You expect to be able to look up in Marx's Das Kapital and then get the solution to all things as if it were such a theoretical discipline. I agree with the rapporteur that a distinction must be made between refugees and immigrants. And, yes, that is exactly the problem, namely that refugees are turned into immigrants from day one and have actually done so all the time. I would like to make a distinction. I would like to say that okay, so let us separate it and then say that the people fleeing war come here, but of course they have to return home, as it has actually been before you became utopian on this issue, i.e. at some point refugees will of course have to return to their own homeland. But the party Enhedslisten is not in to take the discussion, you don't want to know about it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112030	What was the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112039	You have the right to make a comment, but it may be that there is a question now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112045	The question is: When does Enhedslisten begin to relate to reality? Is immigration a problem? Is the flow of refugees a problem? Is the fact that refugees are turned into immigrants a problem? Is that even going to be the case? The Enhedslisten stays out of any discussion that demands that you take responsibility, because the party does not. It's nice to be able to bask in some noble and abstract principles. I just do not think that there is any reality in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112108	I think Enhedslisten is doing a lot to take responsibility. We are just deeply critical of the policy being pursued, not least with the help of the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, that the only answer you have to refugees and immigrants in this country and to the Danish people and the challenges that are clear about it is that let us put them into services, let us send them out as cheap labour. That is, of course, the essence of the policy being pursued. There are also nuances and there are other measures, yes, but that is the main thrust of it. And then let us otherwise pauper that group on some completely utopian notion that it should make it easier to get them into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112157	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112200	I fully agree with my colleague, Mr President. Christian Langballe in that there is no sense of reality at Enhedslisten. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the economy. In 2014, expenditure on non-Western immigrants and descendants amounted to EUR 33 billion. kr. net. That's 90 million. kr. a day. Does Enhedslisten believe that it is reasonable expenditure, or does Enhedslisten believe that it is expenditure that should be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112238	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112241	Thank you for the question. Surely it is expenditure that must be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112249	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112254	That was a short answer, and thank you for the short and simple and clear answer that expenditure must be reduced. Then I just want to hear how Enhedslisten intends to reduce these expenses. If you do not want to make demands on the refugees who come here to Denmark when they are going to the labour market and provide, how will you make demands? Otherwise, we in the Danish People's Party predict that these costs will simply continue to rise in a totally unacceptable and explosive direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112328	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112331	Those costs must be reduced in the longer term by making an investment worthy of the word social investment, namely an investment in the upskilling of these people, an investment in their ability to enter the Danish labour market, instead of using them as free labour. This is harmful to those concerned, because they do not learn what it means to be part of a job on equal terms with colleagues, both in terms of pay and employment. And the colleagues will easily look at them in the wrong way, because it is clear that the Danish Supermarket is a brilliant example of using refugees and others in business practice as a substitute for people in completely ordinary employment, and that is deeply damaging.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we must have the next rapporteur, Mrs Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112435	First of all, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate. As other rapporteurs have already said, this is an extremely important debate. When you come to Denmark, you have to contribute to society. With the massive number of asylum seekers we have seen in recent years, it is absolutely crucial that we get the employment challenge right in the future, so that we do not end up with even more foreigners on public support. We should not repeat the failed integration policy of the past. As a society, we have totally failed not least the women who came here through the 1970s and 1980s. In a fit of misunderstood goodness we thought it might be best if we gave them a home and a transfer income, and then they could just sit there and rest a little bit, and there they have been sitting for 25-30 years. We cannot be familiar with that. These are many of the women who are still on cash benefits today, although they have been in Denmark for 25-30 years and who may not speak Danish and often have very little contact with other Danes. The very best form of integration is employment, for not only do you get something to stand up for, but it is also beneficial to have a network outside your usual associates. This helps to shift one's attitudes and perceptions, and slowly, but surely, one becomes a larger part of society, and perhaps one will even share the values on which it is based. But how do we get more foreigners to work? Now, for 30 years, we have been passively watching in the hope that everything will work out. We have continued to provide them with cash aid without making any great demands, and it is quite clear that we have not succeeded in getting the majority of them to work. Fortunately, this has changed and today we are making more demands than we have done in the past. We have increased the incentive to work by introducing integration benefits, we have concluded major agreements with the social partners that it should be easier for newcomers to get to work, and we also make demands on Danish knowledge. These are all steps in the right direction and we must continue along that path. We can also see in concrete terms that, ironically, the large number of asylum seekers has also caused the municipalities to think out of the box. We see municipalities that are more concerned with the challenge because they have been pressured on the economy. Many municipalities are now addressing the sectors that need labour, need unskilled labour, precisely to provide job openings for new dancers. And it is much more in that direction that we need to do. We need to use the recovery that we are in to get refugees into jobs as well. And you can actually see that several municipalities have begun to think about this. In the municipality where I myself sit in the municipal council, Frederiksberg Municipality, we have made an agreement with a bus driver company that lacks bus drivers. They find it insanely difficult to recruit Danish labour, which is why we have made an agreement as a municipality, where we say that we get a Danish course with them, get our refugees trained, and then they take them to work. And it is such a type of partnership, such a type of agreement, such a type of innovation that the municipalities have become better and better. Another example is that we in the Liberal Alliance, in cooperation with Lejerbo, who has Mjølnerparken, proposed simply to deprive all residents of cash assistance and to provide a job instead, so that they simply did not have cash assistance but had a job guarantee. Lejerbo wanted to help, and they said themselves that their clear view was that this was what was needed to get women out too, because women are really hard to get along with, but if they were forced to do so because they were deprived of their livelihood and put a job in their place, they would also be taken on board. So we are working on proposals and we see the good trends in the municipalities, but it is clear that this is something that must continue to be the focus of attention, and fortunately there is also in the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428112918	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask, in principle, what the rapporteur's position is on what I am now saying. I think it is a fundamental problem that we have refugees who have come to this country since this terrible refugee law of 1983 and where the strategy has been for them to be turned into immigrants from day one and in time to have citizenship. The stair ladder I think is simply totally missed, and I believe it is going to give Denmark great challenges and problems not only now, but also in the next 10, 20, 30 and 50 years. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113008	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113011	I would actually like to say that I do not believe that the fact that we are trying to push refugees into jobs is a beginning step towards citizenship in Denmark. I mean, they need a job because we don't have to support them. But when their country is safe and secure again, they have to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113040	That is, in fact, an opinion that I share. But there's just something I don't understand. Firstly, I believe that what is problematic today is that these many integration projects simply do not work. I believe, basically, that people who want to be integrated will be integrated. In fact, I believe that it is the personal will for integration that plays the most important role. And secondly, I just think that there is a fundamental problem in this, because why don't we make a return strategy from day one and tell these people who come to this country: remember that you are here temporarily; don't make any hope of permanent residence permit or citizenship, for of course you have to return home when there is peace in your country? Why don't you say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113135	I think the questioner is right to say that many of those who want to be integrated are integrated. However, I am also of the opinion that incentives are working, and I think, in a sense, that one can push for motivation and the will to integrate by putting the right incentives into the system, for example. lower social benefits for the target group. On the question of what to put these people in view when they arrive, it is not my view that they are today expected to become Danish citizens. My impression is that they are given the prospect that they can and must have a job because they have to support themselves. I agree with that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113215	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113221	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. I will deal with this with the personal attitude, because it is certainly our position in the Danish People's Party that if it is that you come to Denmark with a recommendation that you want to integrate, that you want to work, then it also appears in the employment figures automatically. But we just have to admit that the vast majority, that is, of this group, is not in employment. We see, among other things, that figures from 2015 show that 84 per cent. of the acids were not in work, were not in employment. Then what I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is whether it is not true that the personal attitude is crucial in terms of whether you are actually getting a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113314	Well, I think the questioner is right about that, that is, that the personal attitude is very crucial to how easy it is to get a job. This applies both to refugees, immigrants and, as such, to Danes. However, I still believe that incentives work, and I still believe that incentives can influence personal motivation to get a job. I think that you are more motivated to get a job if the benefit you receive is lower than what it will give you to have a job. So, in this way, I believe that incentives are something we really need to think into the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113352	If you want to speak again, you have to press in. But it may be that the answer is so good that you will not ask again so it is up to the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113404	There is a very bad sound in here, so I find it difficult to hear what the President is saying, but I understand that I am being given the floor again. In relation to what the rapporteur said, we fully agree that economic incentives are extremely important. But so is the personal attitude. And now we saw a TV 2 broadcast yesterday, where it turned out that there were a lot of refugees who didn't even show up for internship. There's just a real slenderian in relation to the personal attitude. Is it people whom the rapporteur envisages can ever get to work here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113441	Yeah, I sure hope so. It is not, in fact, because I neglect the importance of the personal attitude; it is, in fact, just because I believe that you can change the personal attitude with the right incentives. It is not certain that you can do it for everyone, but I believe that you can do it for a lot of people. And that is why I think it is so important that incentives promote self-sufficiency and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113509	Then it's mr. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113516	Thank you. I also found the right stool to ask from. I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. We want refugees from day one to get to work, but we know that jobs are not on the trees, and that means that when we get a refugee into work, another Dane is being pushed in the back of the unemployment queue. Isn't that correct, and isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113541	No, that is not correct, and that is not a problem either. After all, we are currently seeing massive demand for labour. So we have, for example. in the specific case I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, a situation in which there is a bus driver company that has problems finding drivers. There are no available Danish drivers, and that is why we have made an agreement with them, Frederiksberg Municipality and this company, that they are in charge of Danish education, train our refugees to become drivers, against their hiring them. They only make that investment because they cannot get Danes to take the job. It would be much cheaper for the company not to have to finance Danish spending and then just take a Dane, but there are currently no Danes to contest those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113628	Then Mr. Ib Poulsen just to get in. I understand that it was tricky that the sound reached the Danish People's Party, so I would just like to repeat that one remembers to press if one wishes to speak again. Because you only have to ask one question, but you have the right to ask two. Here you go, sir. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113644	Thank you, sir. President. Now I had to hear the answer before I wanted to get in. But it is the case that you put them in terms of jobs and so on. In view of the fact that they may be able to stay here forever and as my co-questioner, sir. Christian Langballe says that it is perhaps a citizenship that waits around the corner, instead of putting them in the prospect that when they come here, we will be helpful in educating them to be able to return, so that they have greater competences to help build their own country. If you are to take an ordinary job in Denmark, you must take part in the job training, etc., so that you can be trained for example. To drive a bus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113734	I think it is appropriate to discuss what these people are looking forward to when they come to Denmark, and I think it is easy to discuss whether they should be made clear to them when they come to the country, that we expect them to take a job, we expect them to comply with the laws and rules of the country, including the unwritten ones, and we expect them to respect our freedom of expression, that is, the fundamental values of Denmark. And we must also make it clear to them that they are here because they are covered by some conventions in which we protect them as long as there is war in their own country. But many of these have a dream to come back, we should remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113819	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113823	Thank you. I think the rapporteur said this at least at the moment. is not a Dane who wants to take the jobs that refugees are sent into internships. How does the rapporteur know?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113841	What I referred to was a very specific example of bus drivers in the metropolitan area, where there are challenges in finding Danish drivers. Therefore, an agreement has been reached with the municipality of Frederiksberg to train refugees in order to be able to recruit them. According to them, it is because they cannot find labour in Greater Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428113906	Fortunately, I think that we two agree that it is a good idea for refugees to have the opportunity to get an ordinary job as a bus driver. It's just to eliminate any misunderstanding about it. We often hear that there are no Danes who want to take those jobs, but is the rapporteur quite sure that the job vacancies have been posted, that the company has made an effort, for example. to contact the local union, that is, the drivers' union, and that it has been ensured that the jobs were posted on Jobnet, so that the unemployed who are looking for jobs have had the opportunity to get it? Is the rapporteur sure about that? I would say that if that work has been done and there has been no search, there can be no doubt that it is a good idea, but that is what we must be sure of. We often hear the claim that the Danes do not want to take the jobs that Eastern Europeans and refugees take. We just need to make sure they've had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114001	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114004	Now I haven't talked to every job consultant about how it happened, or with the company, even where they looked up their jobs, but my guess is that they've looked into it because it would be a lot cheaper for them. After all, refugees are employed on ordinary pay and working conditions when they eventually become permanent employees in the job, but they start with a learning process where they get an education, and that is not cheap for the company. So I would think that it would be better for the company to hire a Dane who was plug and play, instead of having to start teaching a fugitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114042	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114044	I think we should be very careful about believing something in this regard, because we are also hearing examples of Danes who want a job, but they cannot be employed because they have to pay for a driving licence themselves. They do not get part of the subsidies that bus companies receive in order to take in refugees and immigrants. There's a big difference there. If, from the outset, they are going to pay collective wages to refugees and immigrants, there is not the merit that the rapporteur says there is. So you might want to be careful what you say before you know if that's the case. Because I have been contacted by some Danes who have said that they want to drive and that they cannot get a bus licence, but that they have to pay for it themselves. But if it's a fugitive or an immigrant, they get it all paid, and it's not the bus company itself that pays the driver's license. It's probably the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114141	Well, I'm not really buying that premise that they're coming and taking the Danes' jobs, because the studies that are there show that there's a shortage of labour right now. In many places, it is thus an advantage for companies that they can make these agreements and bring refugees in. In addition, we can also see from the studies that if there is an increase in the number of foreigners, immigrants and refugees entering the job, then that, in fact, increases the level of employment of the Danes. So I'm not so nervous for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114223	It may well be that the rapporteur is not nervous about this, but we should bear in mind that when we talk about refugees, before they can even enter, they must have learned Danish in order to be able to provide the necessary service on the bus. I'm not 100% sure, but I'm almost convinced that if it got there that the bus company would pay them full pay from the start, they wouldn't be so interested in getting them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114255	It is clear that Danes have a huge competitive advantage in that they know the language. I was visiting Kiwi, which is a retail chain, a discount supermarket chain, and they told us that it was difficult for them to take in refugees, because it was simply crucial that the refugees could serve customers and tell them where the peeled tomatoes stood and where to find the milk, and so they should be able to say that in Danish. So, of course, the Danes have a huge competitive advantage in that they can Danish. The companies know that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114324	Then we can thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114333	Thank you. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this question debate today. I always think it is relevant that we are discussing whether we are good enough for what we now want to do here in Denmark, and what the question debate addresses is employment for people of foreign origin in Denmark. In 2015, we had about 170,000 full-time employees with foreign citizenship in the labour market, and they contribute to Danish society to such an extent. Denmark wins big on the fact that we are an attractive country for skilled labour, and many Danish companies are deeply dependent on attracting specialised, skilled and skilled workers across borders. So it is important to make it clear that there is a lot of foreign labour which, through the labour market, contributes to Denmark and which we should remember to appreciate. Then the world in these years sees historically many refugees, and that is why we in Denmark have experienced having to take more responsibility than usual, at least for a period of time. Historically, we have not been good enough to integrate refugees into the Danish labour market. I do not think there is any disagreement about that, and that is also why I think it is very good to have a constructive dialogue on how we work on that task on an ongoing basis. But then I think it is a pity and an obstacle when we often get stuck in the history and throw the towel in the ring and find that this is a task we cannot do. Our bad history is based on a lot of bad decisions and approaches, and I think it is wrong to say that we have not learned from them and that we are facing an impossible task. Denmark is one of the world's most happy, functioning and rich countries, and that is why I think it is quite clear that we can integrate people with a different background in our labour market, and we are already well underway. New figures show that the number of refugees and family members of refugees who have been given jobs has tripled. We have a tripartite agreement that has done a lot. We have a civil society and private individuals who are undertaking a huge task of helping our new citizens. We are also constantly seeing new companies which are bidding and who want to join us, and we see that the refugees themselves are moving forward. They want to. We are deeply dependent on the commitment of both civil society and companies, because it is there, in reality, that life is lived and the right integration takes place. So I would also like to say a great deal of thanks from the platform to all the people and companies who contribute to this. A good example of what we, as politicians, can do to ensure a better framework is, among other things, that: the tripartite agreement. Before it was so that too many refugees against their will were declared not ready for work because they could not Danish from day one and therefore among other things. could not log in to Jobnet and apply for a job. It was crazy, and that's why it was changed. Just over a year ago, only 3% were assessed as suitable for a job, and they were therefore prevented from working, among other things. because they didn't speak Danish from day one. Today there are a much greater proportion of unemployed refugees who are declared ready for work than unemployed with Danish citizenship. It goes without saying that such a change also has an effect on the success of getting people into work. So it's moving forward. So we are on the right track. At the same time, we must not smoke in the other ditch either, because it is no use simply to make people who really cannot work because of physical or mental challenges, ready for work on paper. And we also need to understand that there are people in this group who have so much in their luggage that it is not a job or our destructive cash assistance system they need. We must continue to have that understanding and respect. It is also an understanding that we must bear in mind when we have almost monthly figures on how many people have entered work after one year in a whole new country as war refugees. Sometimes it's as if we can't understand and accept that this is a task that requires will, but also time. Finally, I would like us not to reduce the integration debate to just a matter of rapid employment. Work is an important part, but that is not all. It's also education, it's everyday stress, it's cultural understanding, it's good communities, it's neighborhoods, it's co-workers, etc., that in one big package, people in Denmark get well integrated. We must appreciate and ensure that there is constant employment effort. We must support this employment effort, and we must not oppose it. So to sum up and make it very brief: we are the happiest, richest and most well-functioning country in the world, and of course we can do much better than we have done historically. I mean, we're really on our way. The challenges we face are some that we can solve if we do so together. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we are, of course, part of the proposal for adoption presented by the Social Democrat rapporteur earlier in the rapporteur's round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428114857	Well, when you're discussing these things, you can really think this way: is this the same reality we're talking about? I don't think so. I don't think it's going very well. In fact, I believe that things are going badly, and I believe that the integration plans that have been devised over time have been largely disastrously bad. That is where I believe that the Folketing divides itself into utopians and realists, and I simply believe that the alternative is a utopian party which does not want to talk about reality as it is. We have continued and continued to welcome more refugees and to turn them into immigrants from day one, while the refugees we once accepted and turned into immigrants from day one have not been integrated. In other words, we keep filling in. And then we expect that at some point we will succeed, especially if you hold some toasts about how good we should be to each other, and if we sit down in circles and hold each other's hands. And I just don't believe that. It is the same strategy that has been in place since 1983 when we received the Aliens Act. There's basically nothing happening. And there I have one question: does the alternative agree or disagree that it is a good idea for refugees to come to the country and for them to be turned into immigrants and finally to be made Danish citizens? Is that a viable road?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115020	In other words, only the refugees who get refugee status in Denmark can stay here, and I think we should do everything we can to ensure that the people living in Denmark can be integrated. Thus they get a stay and eventually, if they so wish, Danish citizenship. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. One of the things we know is that waiting, especially in the asylum procedure, is that we park people • is one of the worst. This is one of the things that works the worst when it comes to getting to work. So if it was up to us, they should be allowed to work from day one. We know that waiting is one of the things that destroys people. Moreover, it also destroys Danish citizens who will be unemployed if they do not get to work quickly. Well, we know that waiting is one of the things that affects us as people and makes us depressed and makes us uninspired and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115113	This is true of all members of the Things, sir. Langballe, you have to get back in if you want to speak the second time. Now I quickly got up because I knew there was a mistake, so thank you, President). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115124	This means that in the alternative it is a clear position that when people come here as refugees and get a residence permit, it could be an end in itself that they get Danish citizenship. Well, it's the stair ladder you imagine. Or does the alternative have an idea of how many refugees and immigrants Denmark can tolerate if Denmark is also to be the happiest country in the world in the future? And does the alternative have a repatriation strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115210	So it is not an end in itself for me that they become Danish citizens. But when we recognise that people have the right to be in Denmark and when we have given them permission to be here, it is clearly a goal for me that we have them integrated and we must do everything we can for it. And there I think it is insanely important that we look at the tools that we know work instead of using some of what does not work. And, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that the tripartite agreement and the opportunities there have brought about some significant improvements that we can see now. More and more people are entering the labour market after the IGU agreement, for example. It was a little sluggish at first, but now it's starting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115255	Thank you. I would like to thank you for a good rapporteur's speech, with which I agreed, and I think it was nuanced. Thank you, in particular, for the rapporteur's attention and words that I did not achieve because time ran out on me, namely that there is no point in believing that employment solves all problems when we talk about good integration or good treatment of refugees just to take it that way. It does not, of course, for the simple reason that many other things need to be done, as the rapporteur said, but also because about half of the refugees are unable to work. How, then, should it help them to whip them into that work? Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur why we agree to a decision which actually states: "The Danish Parliament therefore supports the political initiatives agreed with the social partners and the National Association of Local Authorities. For the common thread of what the Minister of Integration also said was that everyone is ready for work from day one. Then we can always find out if they may have some problems that make them not to work anyway. Well, the not very common thread, if I may use that word, is that work is the solution to everything when you look at the things in the tripartite agreement that KL and the government have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115412	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur for agreeing that more things need to be done in terms of integration in addition to employment. I think the rapporteur has just pointed that out, and that is what I fully agree with. There's a reason we're in this text. It does not say that everyone is ready for work, but it says that more and more refugees are being declared ready for work. And that's some of what I think is really important. What we did so far was that we just said that well there is an absolute requirement that you should be able to Danish before you can even use those systems. We know that the refugees who come here are super, super motivated, and we must do everything we can to support that. It is clear that then there are some who are simply unable to work because of physical or psychological obstacles, and this must be taken very seriously. That is also what I stressed in my rapporteur's speech. And then it's just that I'm saying that's where we divorce the government that we also have to focus on education. We need to look at, for example. the real competences of women. We have a discussion about why women do not get properly into the labour market. Well, they do, among other things. not because we don't see what it really is they can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115522	Thank you. And there's the alternative and Enhedslisten once again completely agreed. I also tried to include some of this in my own rapporteur's speech. We are in complete agreement. But that's because you specifically relate to the tripartite agreement and the two-party agreement with the government... we're gonna bring KL with us. Unfortunately, as the Minister for Integration said, the mechanics from that agreement are that everyone is ready for work; all refugees are per. definition job preparation from day one. Then you can see after 3 months whether some of them might be so traumatized and have other sufferings that make them have to have another offer. Unfortunately, that is the mechanics of what has been agreed. And that is contrary to what the rapporteur says. So that is why I am surprised that the mechanics are so uncritical. Another important mechanics is the one I pointed out in my speech, that is, the massive use of enterprise practices, which are in fact only free labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115625	I do not agree at all that there is a contradiction. Well, I would really like to ensure that the social partners, companies and local authorities support this. That is why we have supported the tripartite agreement and, indeed, the two-party agreement that has been made. I think it's a good deal. Then I think we should make sure that we work towards a better and better situation. I think it is really important that we see the people who come as they really, really want to. And it is important to recognise that they really want to. Then there are some of them where we have to say that they can neither physically nor mentally. So briefly on the corporate aspect: I think it is really important that they have the opportunity to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115709	The next question is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115713	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative for taking part in the debate. I note that the rapporteur says that the worst thing is that people are parked and people are going to work and here the rapporteur was referring to refugees. I do not know whether the rapporteur has had the opportunity to see it, but last night on TV 2 a broadcast was shown following a workstation, Bilka in Odense, which has 25 places available for trainees. On that day there were nine people who came in the morning and during the day there were 13 out of the 25 who came. That is, there were 12 who never showed up for their internship on this day. We hear, among other things, that there are bad excuses about private matters and the like, but is this really not a bad attitude to work if it is that you do not show up instead of being parked? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115823	I shall be quick to say that I have not seen the broadcast in question and therefore it is difficult for me to answer it. That's why I'm going to lift it up so it's a little more general and say that some of what we still don't do well enough in my optics is that we put people on hold. So, we have to make sure that in the second people come to Denmark and there I think that the Danish People's Party and the Alternative disagree, they should, I think, be able to get out to work immediately; they should have the opportunity to get out to volunteer immediately; they should be able to get out to become a part of society immediately. Because we know that's what helps. We know that in the second they come to Denmark, they are top-motivated because they have traveled a long way, and now they finally get there, and then they want to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115911	But there I have to admit that I think the alternative lacks a sense of reality in relation to the real world. The alternative says we put people on hold. And then there was a broadcast yesterday, where it actually turned out that you don't put people on hold. You send people into internship so they can get a job, and then half of them don't show up. Well, what kind of a bad attitude to take a job is that? What kind of people are motivated here? They are not motivated, I must say to Mrs Josephine Fock. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428115946	Well, again, as I said, I have not seen the broadcast, but I remember that there has been an earlier broadcast about Danish cash aid recipients, which I think had a similar angle. I am not very much for those television broadcasts that are really good at finding examples that do not live up to the reality we want. I think it is insanely important to have a nuanced debate. I do not wish to deny that there can be people who are not motivated, both among refugees and people of Danish origin. But again, that's not what draws the whole picture. At least that's not what draws the whole picture when I'm out talking to people. Then I find it interesting that there has just been a project in Aarhus, an entrepreneurial project with Muslim women who have been here for many years. The focus has been on this group and asked if they would like to become entrepreneurs. And there you hear about a Somali woman who, for 10 years, has been having a dream of becoming an entrepreneur, for whom she has now finally received support, and she has been doing her own Somali catering business. Well, that's what we're gonna do. After all, we must become much, much better at figuring out people's real competences, and then we must support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120059	With that, we thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the radical rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120110	Thank you for that, and thank you to both the Minister for Employment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I think that both ministers made some very fine speeches, and I think that when it comes to concrete solutions, we actually agree very far along the way. In the Radical Left, we are against poverty benefits precisely because they make families poor, and children who grow up in poverty therefore have fewer opportunities and risk even more marginalisation. You cannot have all that praise on the part of the ministers, now there will be a revolt. But what we have to learn... Fourth Vice-President We have to ask for a little calm for the sake of the rapporteur, also on the benches of ministers. Thank you.). I am sorry that there is such praise here from the Radical Left. I believe that the ministers must also live with it. We must learn from the experience, the ministers said, both the good and the bad, talk openly about the problems, about the social control that is taking place and we must have expectations of each other, make demands on each other. Integration is closely linked to education and work, and we fully agree on this. In the Radical Left, we then believe that the integration effort starts day one for those who come here already while refugees are waiting for their asylum case to be dealt with. We believe that there is a need for a continued fight with the approach so far, where integration only begins when asylum seekers have been granted refugee status, because it is undignified and harmful for refugees to be kept in passivity and, as a society, we cannot afford to keep so many people passive for so long. This has obvious consequences. We cannot afford refugees to spend up to the first year or at the moment longer in asylum centres without getting started with an active life which, of course, leads towards self-sufficiency. And that's why we need turbo on the integration effort. There are undoubtedly minority challenges in Denmark that we need to talk about. We could, for example. I would also like to say that there is only 1.6 per cent. of Danish post-school students who have minority backgrounds, that there is only 2.6%. by the Danish police officers who have minority backgrounds, and then through knowledge and insight and documentation we shall talk about what is behind the lack of representation. And when women with a minority background are subjected to social control, we, as a society, must shout out and, of course, also raise our hands and help them. This applies both to women and to men. But there is also a positive development among the non-Western minority. Young descendants are training better and more, crime is decreasing in this group, and social participation is increasing. And if we only tell the negative stories, we are harming Denmark, both now and in the future, to quote the Minister for Finance, who is one of the Leftmen, as you know, I am also a little enthusiastic about. 82 percent as a whole. of all descendants of non-Western origin are under 25 years of age. A whole generation, therefore, goes to kindergarten or is still in the process of education, and here there is therefore a positive trend which is worth keeping in mind in an often rather harsh debate. This is where we need to take action, massively, with investment in children and education, so that we do not abandon that generation, with an active housing policy in vulnerable residential areas, by investing in more educators in day-care institutions, by not cutting down on youth education, so that it is precisely the efforts for social mobility and the most vulnerable who are affected, by meeting and interfering with us and not isolating us. Because it is crucial for all people that we are also counted up and not down when we succeed in ensuring that refugees and immigrants are not told every day that they are not welcome, like people, for example. people with mental vulnerability or disease, do not need, and I quote, every day to be told that when you get a pill now, you can endure the torment for the rest of your life, but that they almost every day are told: You can also something we believe in you. It's just a matter of finding out what you can do. It was to quote now a former Social Democratic Prime Minister, for whom I also have a personal enthusiasm and who is standing under us in the Common Assembly right now talking about exactly this: openness to people who may not be exactly like ourselves or have some slightly different challenges. My starting point is that you can speak up and speak directly and frankly about the problems that are obvious. So I'm gonna work for us to do even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120730	I would like to thank the radical rapporteur, who, with his praise to the government, brought about greater calm on the benches of the government, but we must try to do so. It also gave rise to a request for a question from the Danish People's Party, namely from Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120745	It is gratifying that the Minister for Finance and the Radicals are in agreement, and then you have to see what lies in it. No, I think that there is something about the Radicals that actually creates a great wonder in me, namely that one always boasts oneself of knowledge and enlightenment and then simply denies reality. You get that flossy factory going, that we're just gonna be good to each other. And if we're just good to each other, the problems will solve. Well, that's the song we've heard since the refugee law in 1983. That is what the Radical Left has always stood for, and they have never admitted that their own view has failed, that the utopian global Hallelujah humanism is simply not a viable path in the reality we are in. I just want to ask: when do the Radicals start addressing the really massive problems of integration and immigration? When's that piece of reality recognition coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428120904	As far as I can count up in connection with the last 25 years of integration policy, the Danish People's Party has been responsible for several years or at least as many years as the Radical Left. So I could address exactly the same question to Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe. Where I think realistic solutions lie is when we talk directly about the problems. Those were some of the things I mentioned, and the rest of them must be responsible for Mr. Knox. Christian Langballes's own bill. I also believe that we should be realistic, and I do not think that the Danish People's Party has offered a single realistic solution now. And solutions lie both in the integration policy, which I have not heard a word about from the Danish People's Party, but of course also in what I hear a lot about from the Danish People's Party, namely how we control the admission of refugees, asylum seekers to Denmark. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Radical Left and a large majority in Europe, we do so only by gaining joint control over matters. And we can only do that if we are actually actively involved in common solutions. Then we can get control; then we can control the number; then perhaps we can even say exactly how many we distribute to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121033	The next question is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121038	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Then I have to say that, as DFs, there is some concern that there is someone from the Radical Left who praises the Left Ministers for the clouds at least when it comes to the Finance Minister. Having said that, it is true that today some demands are being made on the refugees who come to this country, among other things. in terms of integrating and getting into work. But what does the Radical Left really think? Are there really requirements for the people who are coming? And if yes, it must have consequences if you do not meet those requirements, for example. are absent from company practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121128	I'm sorry, or I'm not really sorry, but I think it may be a little bad for the Danish People's Party that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe cares so much when the Radical Left praises some ministers to whom the Danish People's Party adds their mandates every day. The Danish People's Party should therefore be pleased about this. Should we not just be delighted to find more agreement across the board? Does the Radical Left believe that demands must be made? I think I said this quite clearly in my rapporteur's speech. It has always been the Radical Left's approach to employment policy and economic policy in general to take responsibility, and this means that we have both expectations and demands of each other. It must and should have the consequences that we have legislated on. Of course, if you don't show up for your internship, of course it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121233	Thank you for your answer. Does the Radical Left believe that it is possible to integrate all refugees in this country yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121251	To that with yes or no: there are probably some that will be really difficult to integrate, and then there will be some for whom it will be much easier to integrate. After all, we are talking about integration as a two-way process, because that is actually what lies in the concept. So I think it will be possible to integrate far, far more people than it is now, in other words those people who are already here and who are not experiencing proper integration, or who, as a majority society, we must say, are not experiencing proper integration. I think much, much more can be done. Are there any people who turn away from our society and who are not part of it? Yeah, obviously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121339	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121352	Employment for citizens with ethnic minority backgrounds is progressing slightly, but things are moving too slowly. Thousands have ended up on the edge of the labour market and on the bottom of society. It damages society financially, leaving families with social challenges isolated from the rest of Danish society. Of course, individual citizens need to take responsibility for their own lives, and society and companies also need to hand out their hands to people who do not just go the straight way into jobs. There is a need for several different, we can call it training tracks and driveway ramps for the labour market, but they all need to be used precisely. SF does not think that the remuneration under the IGU scheme in the public sector is in order, but apart from that, we see that offer as an example of how important it is to use both employers and trade unions to find solutions. Integration requires, first and foremost, that companies open their doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121523	Thank you. Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party, just made it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121527	After all, we are all very, very busy in everyday life, so I can understand that Mr. Karsten Hønge may not have had time to write a longer rapporteur's speech. But I certainly think that there are a number of answers to questions which we in the Danish People's Party expect answers to. We have some expenditure in 2014 for non-Western immigrants and descendants of 33 billion. kr. Is it something like that, sir? Karsten Hønge, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, will deepen his position on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121606	I can start by saying that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe should not interfere at all with a snuff in either the length or the content of the SF's rapporteur's speeches. Not at all! First of all, in my rapporteur's speech, the expenditure associated with the failure of integration is, of course, something that means a great deal to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121629	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe made it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121634	It is gratifying that it means a lot to SF. What, then, are the solutions to be found? After all, we have had repeated integration plans in this country that have not worked. 33 billion kr. In 2014, we spent on this totally inappropriate attempt to integrate people who are difficult to integrate. So what kind of Columbus egg is that, like Mr. Karsten Hønge, on behalf of the SF, has found and is about to end this disastrous development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121705-2	I can then say that what shows the difference between SF and the Danish People's Party among many other things is that we do not claim to have a columbus egg. For us, the world is not divided into black and white and all of them, and now we have a solution to it all. We only listen to this kind of nonsense from the Danish People's Party, because the SF has acknowledged that this is a very complicated issue. In the next resolution that we will be dealing with when we are done with this, we will show one of the things that the SF is proposing. In the next motion for a resolution that we will be discussing as soon as we have finished this debate on questions, we have four proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121737	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121740	The rapporteur must admit that it was a rather short speech, I think, but let it be. I should like to be constructive in saying that I must admit that I have not at any time pretended, as the Radicals also claim, that I have a solution to the morass created by a headless refugee and immigration policy over the past many years. I don't have a solution. I do not actually have a solution to it and I do not see what the solution would be because I simply think that is all, too difficult. I think it is an insurmountable task that we are facing, and it will have consequences over the next many, many decades, when we have then pushed the problems on to our children and grandchildren. But I would like to be constructive and ask: does the rapporteur agree or disagree with the idea that it is a good idea to get here first as a refugee, then you get a residence permit, then you become an immigrant, and finally you get citizenship? Is this a viable path in the future refugee policy in relation to what we should do about these refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121850	I just want to start by saying that by far most of it, sir. Christian Langballe said, I actually agree. It's to some extent a morass we've ended up in, which it's hard to see just one line out of. And the fact that you can point to the easy solutions and send them home or leave them out or do something about them, I don't really believe in. As we can see, SF will make some small contributions. I am not going to say that this is something of a columbus egg. I have no need at all to sell it during the debate, but exactly the next thing we are going to deal with here in Parliament is four proposals from the SF, which we modestly believe can bring some forward, but that is not a solution at all. I fully recognise that we are facing one of the greatest social, economic and cultural challenges in Denmark. I think so. So I don't have a line to it that way. To what Mr. Christian Langballe asks, I would say: No, we do not have as a goal that, because you come here as a refugee, you have to end up as a Danish citizen. No, we don't have that as a target.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428121940	When I ask, it's kind of just because that's what it's been like. We keep working on that model practically. After all, none of them today come to this country and are told: "Dear friends!' As a starting point, you are here only temporarily, because as refugees you must of course return to your countries when there is peace. No one has consistently put forward this view, but we have kept on saying that everything is about integration plans and at some point people become citizens. I think that is a disastrous development. The Radical Left welcomes all the golden solutions they always have, but that is the starting point that has created all the problems which, among other things, have created. The Radicals represent. It has helped to create the morass we are in today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122030	I guess again it's not quite as black and white as Mr. Christian Langballe is running it. After all, there are also refugees returning to the countries from which they have once fled. I am aware of some people I myself knew who have returned to Chile where they came from as refugees. So there are several examples of people who have actually moved back. So reality is not quite as black and white as the Danish People's Party would like to make it. But I'd like to give Mr. Christian Langballe is right that, because they come here as refugees, it is not our aim that they should end up as citizens. But the challenge for all of us is that some of these people come from countries to which we cannot realistically send them back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122109	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122111	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur, also for the last remark, because all parties agree that there is not a straight line or an automatic line in that, because you have been granted refugee status, you also automatically become a Danish citizen. So it is very good to clarify it precisely because of the way in which the Danish People's Party approaches it. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is that the rapporteur supports the proposal for adoption, in which there are also many sensible things in it, certainly, but one of the things that says is that we support the political initiatives agreed in the tripartite agreement and with the KL and the government. But one of those initiatives is this so-called integration training, and I remember that when we dealt with that bill, the rapporteur and I were very much in agreement that what it was perhaps really about was not so much education, but that it was actually integration wages by the back door. We criticized it quite strongly, and we also agreed to vote against it. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has changed his position on this IGU, because it is precisely part of the initiatives to which reference is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122220-2	Well, I think that sir... Finn Sørensen must have been absent for a moment, because I addressed exactly what in my rapporteur's speech and said that it was exempt from the remuneration of the IGU in the public sector, which we are opposed to, and which is why we voted against the law at the time. It was not the IGU idea, it was not the IGU in the building sector, where, for example, you have a remuneration of DKK 115. per hour and within the painting trade of 85 DKK. in the course of the hour, but precisely because in the public sector you ended up with a salary that we thought was unfairly compared with other employees, i.e. only DKK 48. It's an hour. And that is exactly what I addressed in my rapporteur's speech. The initiative as such seems to us to be a good one, but I also used it as much as a picture that, where I think we can find viable solutions that really can move towards integration, are in agreements between the government, the municipalities and, to that extent, the regions of the employers and trade unions. I really think there are many possibilities within reach if we use those agreements more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122315	Yes, and the more nuanced approach to integration education as such, we also agreed in the debate, but we agreed to take an explicit stand against the model that lay. And if we then support a proposal for adoption which says very explicitly that we support the political initiatives, it would perhaps have been very good to say in the motion for a resolution that there was one thing, but did not agree with it. But let's just leave it alone. I would like to ask the rapporteur following that discussion: does the rapporteur recognise that I have a point when I have put a great deal of emphasis on the extensive and very massive use of business practices which are taking place and which are, of course, also part of the initiatives that have been agreed here, and that there are clear indications that we are actually dealing with the abuse of refugees as free labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122412	Just to finish with the IGU, I would like to say that we are in favour of the construction, because it is a good combination of work and training, which is why we are in favour of it. We were against it because we thought it was too poor in public terms. And the reason why it is not included in the proposal for adoption is that I think I got it done by, by mentioning it in my rapporteur's speech. I have one, I think, rather nuanced relationship with business practices, wage subsidies and other things. Well, I think there are training lanes and driveway ramps, as I called it, which, when used accurately, are actually good tools. And I do not think it is quite fair that some companies are hanging out who use language practices, for example, and who have received a request from the job centre and do not do so because they have themselves sought out using these people as cheap labour. To the extent that it is abused, I think we need to ensure that perhaps the trade unions in particular are hit hard on it. But my impression in general is that a lot of constructive, positive companies are doing this to reach out to society and to help people get started and not to use them as cheap labour. There may be some who do, but overall I actually think that it costs too many companies money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122524	We thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122536	Thank you for the floor. It has been a very long debate. On the other hand, it has consisted mostly of repetitions of very well-known views. The question is about what the Minister can tell us about employment for persons of foreign origin. To that the Minister can tell us that it looks quite horrible. We have quite a low level of employment for immigrants and their descendants in Denmark and, in short, we have a huge problem. The policy of foreigners over the last few decades has been a disaster. It has resulted in a new underclass which has a very low employment rate, where very many people are on transfer income and where there are quite large social problems. The size of the integration problems among foreigners in Denmark is determined by 90 per cent. of foreign policy and well over 10% of foreign policy. of integration policy. Foreign policy is crucial. If you accept very large numbers of people from very foreign cultures and with a rather low average level of education, they end up at the bottom of Danish society. Then there will be cultural clashes and social tensions, and far too few of them will get into work. It is inevitable, and it is the same thing that we see everywhere in Europe. The combination of the type of immigration that we have had in recent decades and the European welfare states are causing this kind of problem. It means that there is a group which is having a very difficult time entering the labour markets in the West. Even the world's best integration and job policies will not be able to eliminate the problems created by a naive, careless alien policy. That is why it is so crucial that we have an alien policy based on reality, which is realistic and which takes into account the problems that exist when you have major cultural conflicts and when you have a large number of people with a low average level of education. Compared to what you can do to get those people out on the labour market who are here once again, that is what the question is about • we support the government's integration and job policy. In fact, we think that this is one of the areas where there is a serious difference in what a bourgeois government is doing, what the Left did when it had the power of government and what it will do again if it regains power. The bourgeois government makes demands on immigrants. It ensures that the welfare system in Denmark is not a roof-top table, where it becomes far too attractive to get here and to be on passive support. We believe in incentives. We believe it is crucial that there is a difference between what you get from being in work and what you get from being in transfer income. Therefore, there must be a difference in the amount of cash aid, including for immigrants, in relation to whether they are in a job or not. We also believe, of course, that with the other hand we must ensure that immigrants are trained as best we can. You have to tell them what kind of country they've come to. It is necessary to provide them with language training so that they can undertake themselves in Denmark. It should not be voluntary, but there must be a requirement that they learn Danish. Then we also believe that there should be a requirement that you want to integrate into the society • that you want to read out basic facts about the Danish society • before you can finally become a full part of it in terms of acquiring citizenship. So we are very much in line when it comes to integration and job policy, with what the ministers will be able to explain, and we are pleased that we have just a bourgeois government which is pursuing that policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122941	It gave rise to a few brief remarks, and first it is from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428122945	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. I agree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov in that it looks really terrible in relation to the employment of people of non-Western origin. The rapporteur says that incentives work and that we have introduced some of them, but what about the attitude, that is to say the attitude towards having a job and being in employment? Does incentives also work in relation to this? After all, we saw a broadcast yesterday on TV 2, where it was that there were very many, in fact half of those who were going to appear for language policy that had not appeared. And then you can say, if they don't want to work, why do they have to be here? Would it not be better, then, for us to draw up an active return strategy to ensure that they came back to and helped rebuild the country they came from when their homeland had calmed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123045	After all, it is very difficult to dictate what attitude people should have. I don't think we can do that as politicians. What we can do as politicians is to set up laws and regulations in a way that at least rewards the right attitude. But we cannot control what attitude people have. I think we have done a lot to reward people who want to get to work and to punish those who do not want to get to work with the tightening-up of the benefits of integration in recent years, also with the ceiling on cash benefits and all the other measures that we have mostly taken together with the Danish People's Party. That's what we can do. And then we can hope that the attitude goes with it. In relation to repatriations, it is clear that if we are dealing with some people who do not have the prospect of ever being happy to be in Denmark and who are not going to contribute to Danish society, then it is better for both parties to both the Danish community and themselves to return home. It may even be a very good economic business to give them subsidies because you can give quite large subsidies before it becomes more expensive to do so than to have people on cash benefits for decades. So it is certainly also a tool that you can work with even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123205	Now I usually consider Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party for being a financially responsible party, and it is then again praise that is being given here today. But it looks awful. 33 billion kr. in net costs, we spent in 2014 on non-Western immigrants and descendants. It looks awful. That is what the rapporteur himself says. How much more terrible must it be before it is that the Conservative People's Party also recognises the need for an active repatriation strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123241	We take this extremely seriously, and I think you will know that if you follow the Conservative People's Party's statements and policy in this area. We have among other things. We have had a proposal that we should set a ceiling on how many people come to Denmark, namely 5,000 a year, which is a rather restrictive ceiling compared to the number we have seen in recent years. So we take this extremely seriously, especially in relation to increased influx, especially in relation to foreign policy, but also in relation to integration policy, although it is only to patch up the problem; you do not really get to the bottom of it. We have also actively taken steps to return and have done so together with the Danish People's Party, by making it easier to return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123325	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123327	I fully recognise that the Conservative People's Party has taken responsibility, and I also think that in the rapporteur's speech I heard a very sober and realistic description of what is actually going on in Europe, which is a disaster, and I can see that the rapporteur fully agrees with me on that. But I also think that we need to tackle this more realistically. Because I think that the rapporteur does mention something about the fact that the people who come to the country, in other words the refugees who come to the country, must be integrated and that they must become Danish citizens, and then I just ask: why really? I do not question the fact that I think it is a good idea for people to work if they come to the country, and the refugees can do that, as a matter of fact, that is not what I am contesting. I challenge the very ladder that has been, that is, the way in which we have been thinking, so to speak, for decades, when we have just said that people, when they come to the country, must have a permanent residence permit and that at some point they must have citizenship. And then it's just that I'm asking, why really?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123435	We are in complete agreement with that. Nor do I think it should be the case that, just because you have been granted a residence permit as a refugee in Denmark at some point in time, it should result in a permanent right to be in the country and citizenship at some point in time, not at all. I believe, in fact, that if we were certain that refugees returned home, then with greater peace of mind, we would be able to welcome refugees and perhaps even take a larger number, because we knew that it was only temporary and was not about permanently changing Denmark's demography. So I fully agree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123512	Then it's Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123517	Thank you, President. I would like to ask you something else about the way in which we are receiving refugees today. As far as I can understand at Center Sandholm, they are set to watch a 40-minute video, a film strip, or whatever it is about what rights they have in relation to Danish society when they arrive. There I would like to see a different approach being taken, and from the beginning I said: there is a return strategy, you should know that, when you come to this country, you will eventually have to return home again. So it is simply made clear from the outset. Because I think that could actually clarify a great many things, and I also believe that the vote of expectation would be different if it were made clear from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123609	I agree, but the first step must then be that it is so. Because in reality we have rules which, I have the impression, at least in practice, give the majority of those who come here permanent residence permits in the end, and that is where the problem lies. Because I think it's a huge problem. I think it is a huge problem that the fact that people have been temporarily resident in Denmark because they are refugees, because there is war in their country of origin, ends up meaning that they are here forever and also future generations. That is not the intention at all, and it makes the burden of taking refugees in Denmark tenfold or perhaps 100 times greater than it would be if they returned home after there had been peace in their home countries. So in this area, there is a huge amount of time left. I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123704	Then we have been able to thank the Conservative rapporteur, and I am therefore ready to welcome the Minister for Employment to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428123720	Thank you for that, and thank you for one, it has to be said, long and therefore also in many ways very thorough debate, which has revolved around a wide range of different issues. In this context, I also welcome the fact that many nice words have been said to the government about the efforts that the government has made, not least in the area of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but also in my own area. I would like to comment on a few of the various points that have been made by the rapporteurs. The always industrious sir. Finn Sørensen cannot be spotted in the Chamber, so it does not make much sense to speak to Mr. Finn Sørensen, so we go straight to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, who, of course, had to give very strong support to the government ministers for their great efforts. It is always dangerous when the Radical Left does so. Then you get a little worried that you've misunderstood something or that you've missed something, but since it's Friday, I take it for good goods and believe that it was actually honest. Then it has to be said that the Danish People's Party has also been very active in the debate in every way, but in fact only in good ways, I owe it to you to say. The Danish People's Party has also been very interested in sanctions and what can be done and what cannot be done. Therefore, I am going to read out a letter that I sent to the mayors of the country on 24 March 2017, i.e. a month ago, and now I go down in the letter and allow me to quote: The fact that a citizen wears niqab or burka does not in itself or generally prevent a recipient of integration benefit or education or cash assistance from being ready for work or that a recipient of unemployment benefit is available for the labour market. Then comes the important thing: but if a citizen, for example... in writing. - (FR) The citizens of Europe are directly opposed to a specific job which they can do, simply because they cannot carry niqab or burka, or because the work involves, for example, the handling of pork or alcohol, then the citizen must be penalised. Where appropriate, the penalty will be a reduction or cessation of aid for a period of time. This is one of the things that many questions from the Danish People's Party have been circling today. In Mrs Marlene Harpsøe's speech, one could hear that the government did nothing and one had to understand that the government had no plans and that there was far too little progress in various initiatives. Fortunately, that is wrong, I would say to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. If you look at the excellent proposal for adoption put forward by three parties in this Parliament, you can see that there are a large number of concrete things that are either being done or will be done. And then we actually sign for it, which is why I do not think there is any reason to have a big conflict • the many good things we have done together with the Danish People's Party, which is also beginning to get through: the cash aid ceiling, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. After all, this is something that also has an impact on the whole question of how we can ensure that there are also more non-western immigrants and descendants who come in and make a difference in the Danish labour market. I think it should be my round of comments before I pass on the floor to my fellow minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124106	It is not too early, because there are just a few brief comments. It is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124111	Thank you to the Minister, first of all for the answer, but also for taking the floor now. After all, the government wants to raise the retirement age. It is being debated diligently, and in the meantime we spend 33 billion. kr. in net expenditure, it was in 2014 for non-Western immigrants and descendants. And I just think there's something here that doesn't really work. So, on the one hand, we other healthy people would like to work longer, but then there are also some people who have come here to Denmark who do not make a significant contribution to the rest of us. It is then those who are healthy and bodied who, according to the government, should help to pay the bill that non-western immigration to Denmark costs. What is the Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124210	My comment is that I simply think it is too simplistic a message to say that it is this government that I represent that is responsible for 33 billion. kr. In terms of expenditure in relation to failed integration over decades. After all, the Danish People's Party and former bourgeois governments have taken initiatives to address this problem. In many ways, I agree with Mr. Christian Langballe, who has repeatedly expressed views without questions today or has also come up with questions, but who has of course revolved around the theme, how and how we ensure that we do something about this huge challenge that is going to hit Danish society for generations to come. Because it is both about the economy, but it is also about something that I think has been lacking in today's debate, namely social cohesion. How do we ensure that there is a social cohesion force, where it is a really good idea, actually a healthy value, to contribute when you are part of Danish society? So I do not think there is any reason to have a conflict with the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party supports the government's many initiatives. We also support the initiatives proposed by the Danish People's Party. That is not all we agree on, but it is not, of course, because the festive fireworks of parties in the Folketing today in the proposals for adoption that have been put forward have no proposals. Allow me to mention the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party. I do not see a single proposal there, other than that one says that one should welcome foreigners, and that is always a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124352	In the Danish People's Party we recognise that the government is working in the right direction, but we also disagree on some things. Compared to the cost of non-Western immigration in this country, of 33 billion. kr., it's undoubtedly quite a precious affair. And there is the fact that we in the Danish People's Party say that we have had integration plan at integration level that has not worked, so what is it that needs to be done now? Well, in the Danish People's Party, we believe that an active repatriation strategy is needed, so that it is not that refugees are not turned into immigrants, but that it ensures that they return home when it is that they can do so with regard to the security that is in their home country. How will the Minister for Employment and the Government contribute to ensuring that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124442	Fortunately, it is now the case that there are different regions of the government, even represented in the Chamber here today, and I think it would be best for my colleague to respond to the issue of repatriation. But I'd say this isn't a either-or. I fully agree that people who are in Denmark on a temporary residence permit or have to be here until a conflict is over, of course have to return home. That is what is absolutely crucial. However, I am also very concerned that we need to take all the initiatives we can to promote an active employment policy that also encourages people to be active rather than to be on passive transfer. It has to be said that some of the initiatives I have mentioned here today are precisely encouraging that, if you do not do so, it will have an economic impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124529	Then we shall pass on the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124533	There is no doubt that we have carried out many good things together, and I commend the government for that. In fact, I think that we have done many things by common help. There is no doubt about that. If we take the debate then, of course, it is because we are impatient too, because we want to move on. I think the Minister understands that we are pushing for something to happen. That is why we are taking the debate. It is not a criticism of what we have done, but the problem is so great at the moment that I think it requires some kind of addressing. I just have to say that it is not the government as such that I criticise that I could not really dream of it, but it is really a political mentality that I criticise, namely the fact that it has been said that when refugees come here, they must be per. the definition is made into immigrants, and then at some point there comes a trip, trap, cloaking a citizenship at the other end. It's basically been the modus vivendi that you've been working on in this question, and it's not a viable path. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. I was asked the other day by a journalist what my solution is for the non-western immigrants to cost 33 billion. kr., and then I just say: you know what, dear journalist, I just don't have an answer to that. I don't see any way out of it. I would like the Minister to address that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124706	We're getting a long way around here. Well, first, it's wise not to have a tendency to criticize the government. That's what I'm gonna say. That's it, sir. Jesper Langballe started by saying that he doesn't think there's any reason to criticise the government. I agree with that one hundred percent. But let us put aside the Jysian irony, for it was a support for the government. About what Mr. Jesper Langballe should tell the journalist who called, I'm probably not in a position to advise on this from the platform either. I think you can say to Mr. Knox. Jesper Langballe and to the Danish People's Party that it is absolutely crucial that there is a greater incentive to enter the labour market. That is why we have taken the many good initiatives. I put a lot of effort into this in my ministerial speech, because it is actually quite tragic to see the violent figures and the violent over-representation of couples on cash benefits and cash benefits recipients. That's where we're gonna start. Then I think about the whole question of integration that, although I would like to be a minister for everything, it is probably more fair that this question should be put to my colleague, who actually feels it as a matter of urgency. It's not that I don't want to discuss it with Mr. Knox. Jesper Langballe, but there must also be opportunity for other questions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124820	The next question is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124823	For the record, of course, I shall begin by helping the Minister. My colleague's name is Christian Langballe. His father's name was Jesper. It's just for general information. We have a great man in Christian Langballe. Back to the question. I just want to ask whether the Minister agrees that one of the most important demands to be made on refugees and immigrants is that they should learn to adapt to the Danish labour market. They must learn that there are no special rules for them and that they must comply with the rules that are in the Danish labour market and the demands that are being made. This is one of the conditions that must be met if we are to succeed in getting them into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428124909-2	Thanks for the advice, it's absolutely necessary. And I apologize to Jesper Langballe, who is no longer here. Yeah, I'll get to it. There must be no debate with the Minister on the platform, I assume. And I'm sorry again, because the answer was to Christian but the answer is still the same, I'd say. It won't happen again in this debate that I don't remember people's names. In fact, I agree with a hundred per cent that one cannot, if one may say so, use one's religion in order not to be part of the labour market. That's kind of what's in Mr. Knox's office. Bent Bøgsted's question. That is also the answer that I have now written to the municipalities of the country, among others. on the basis of questions on the same subject from members of the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group, where it has been asked about this and where it has also been asked what I, as Minister of Employment, have done to clarify it. Now I choose to read it out here today to say that the letter has been sent, and I have also very clearly told the municipalities what the rules are like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125007	Thank you. And for the record, it will be in the family with Christian Langballe and Jesper Langballe. That's it. I think it is very good for the Minister to say that this is the demand that needs to be made and that it is made clear to the municipalities. Because it is sad to hear that even refugees and immigrants say that there is no consequence, because we are getting the money anyway. It's one of the saddest things there is, because then they might as well not care about everything. And when we can see that an integration consultant says that the Danes are contentious, that they do not dare to face the confrontation, it is precisely that we must say that of course we are not a cloud of conflict, of course we will take that confrontation, and of course we must teach them that there are some rules, some rules of the game they must conform to, otherwise they have come to the wrong country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125058	I agree with a hundred per cent, and I agree with the emphasis that Mr. Bent Bøgsted also has. This is not only sad, it is also tragic. It is tragic not to make demands on people, because everyone benefits from being required and being told what is right and what is right and what to do. That is why this is a failure, and it is also a failure of the municipalities if they do not apply the sanctions that exist. It may be that there is a need to make those rules both sharper and clearer, and I am concerned about that. But it is now up to the municipalities to sanction when they deliberately do not want to be part of this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125138	Then we can thank the Minister for Employment and pass the baton on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It's gonna be awesome. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125157	I would also like to thank you for today's debate, which I really think has most reflected the political reality we are in, where I think the bourgeois parties have actually discussed the problems and taken the bull by the horns, but the red parties have not wanted to discuss the substance of this and the real problems. You can see it in the text of the adoption, because if you take the text of the adoption that has come from the Social Democrat Party, which, incidentally, today, you have to literally say, has reported red color, because you have now joined up with the alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, then everything is old, and that is all very well, but you can see it in the text of the adoption that has come from the red parties, which is such a piece of talk. There are no proposals on how to solve the problems, because the root of the nettle will not really be grasped. Let me just quote the second paragraph of the resolution, which states that, however, the Folketing is aware that too many refugees and family members are still on public support. It is neither economically nor humanly sustainable. No, everyone can agree on that, but where are the solutions? They're not there. Of course, these are the same parties who did not want to vote in favour either, when we have put forward things that help to solve this, and which help to move these things: it is about the integration benefit, that is to say, where we are half the benefit you receive, so you get a benefit now that corresponds to the SU level; it is about the 225-hour rule, which is the world's best argument for women to enter the labour market, because if you have a married couple who are on integration benefit or cash assistance, each of the married couple has to deliver 225 hours a year, otherwise you can be cut or lose your benefit altogether the following year; and then there is the cash aid ceiling. These are three concrete things that we in the bourgeois camp have carried out and that we can see also works. Then there is no point simply talking as has been done in the adoption of the red parties. I think that is also what has pervaded the debate. Sir. Christian Langballe has also circled around it several times, that you just talk. Everyone agrees that it is a problem that for many immigrants and women with a non-Western background are outside the labour market, but there is no action behind the words when it comes to the red parties. That is why, of course, I am happy that there is a blue majority, because otherwise we would just see how integration would continue to sail. I also believe that the integration effort has failed over the past 30-40 years, and it is a disaster that is a purely economic disaster. We have been talking about this recently, and non-western immigration costs us 33 billion. kr. a year. It is a big bill that has to be paid, but there is another bill that is almost insurmountable to pay, and that is the value bill, and we have seen it on several occasions and as recently as last night, as Mrs Marlene Harpsøe of several laps has also mentioned, in the TV 2 broadcast that was, but also earlier on the TV 2 broadcast the Mosques behind the veil. I am not surprised, and I do not think Mrs Marlene Harpsøe or Mr Marlene Harpsøe are surprised either. Christian Langballe or Mr. Bent Bøgsted, but it seems to surprise the red block here in the Folketing because you are not willing to do anything about it. So I think that is really what remains after today's debate, for which I would also like to thank you, and I shall of course make myself available for any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125604	There's a couple of them. And it's first Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125608	Thank you to the Minister for a speech filled with realism and a sense of reality. One of the things I would like to ask is that we have had countless integration plans in this small country, and these are integration plans that have not worked. In any case, we still look away a very large number of people of non-Western origin who are not in work. And the Minister himself says that it costs 33 billion. kr. annual net. It's a really, really big bill, and there's only the rest of us to pay it, that is, us going to work. So it looks really awful. Would it not be better instead of repeating such an integration plan over and over again, which does not work as intended, to draw up an active return strategy for the individual refugee who came to this country rather than to turn this into an immigrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125713	Well, I have the basic view that as long as you are in Denmark, you have to contribute. And, of course, once there is peace in the country of origin, you have to return home, and that is where the repatriation strategies come in. And it is also there that we with the Danish People's Party have already strengthened our efforts, for example, by last year's financial agreement. repatriation. It has just been at the first reading here in the Danish Parliament. But let me just make it clear that I think there are three things that must apply when you come to a new country as a refugee. It is firstly that one should be grateful, secondly that one should be humble, and thirdly that one should make an effort. Then we can see that some do. Luckily for that. That's what we saw last night. But there are also some who do not do so, and that is where we have to take action and sanction, for example. If you do not show up for the internship you have to by providing you with some benefit systems that make it worthwhile to work. That is why we have together introduced the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and the ceiling on cash benefits. But apparently it's just us because the red block doesn't want anything. They only want to talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125827	I am very pleased that the Minister has just mentioned, among other things. this programme from yesterday, which indicated that some people are going to take part in company practice that just doesn't come. And that just shows that there is a really bad work ethic, a really bad attitude. But does the Minister really think that in essence it helps to screw these tools around financial incentives? Would it not be better for a return strategy to be drawn up for those who really do not want to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125859	Yeah, for those who can come home. 'Cause they're going home. And you have to go home when there's peace in your homeland again. But as long as there is no peace, for example. In Syria, we can't send these people home. But then you have to contribute. Then they'll have to contribute as long as they're here. I think it is absolutely essential that they provide for themselves and their families. It cannot be right to come here without contributing when we give everything we can of peace, security and stability at all. Then the least that can be demanded is that one should also help to support oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125931	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428125935	I agree with the Minister that this Parliament is divided between the utopians and the realists. That is simply what this is about in relation to this question. There is no doubt that we have achieved many good things together, and I would like to commend the government for that. Well, it's almost a nightmare to think back to the period from 2011-2015, when a government actually led by the Radicals reduced everything we had tried to build up. So I certainly think something has happened in that way. I have then tried to address the problem, and I think it is a problem that people who have come here are not impressed by the fact that they are only here on a temporary basis. So I think it's something you have to address, that is, where you say, dear friends, you're here, but you're here temporarily. You're going home when there's peace in your country. And then it has to be held to that view, instead of it just running, so you are a refugee, then you are an immigrant, and at some point you become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130039	I fully agree that you have to go back home when there is peace in your country of origin. So I do not think we disagree, and it would also be a peculiar experience; perhaps almost in line with when I was praised by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There was a little furore on the ministerial benches, but it is also in many ways a frightening experience to be praised by the Radicals in this way. But as well as being a frightening experience, it would also be a frightening experience to disagree very much with Mr. Christian Langballe. And neither am I.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130112	That thing with the Radicals can make you wake up with cold sweat at night. But I want to say that exactly with regard to this, I think there is a lack of this recognition of truth that really comes through when you say: we have some problems that are totally incalculable and, I would also think, insurmountable to solve perfectly we will not. So that realism begins to come into being where you say very clearly: the objective, when you start with these refugees, is that they should go home again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130152	I think that is also necessary, because it has to be said that the whole concept of refugees would also collapse if people are not sent back more consistently. The concept of refugees is, of course, in all its simplicity about the need for protection as long as there is a need for protection. When there is no longer, then, of course, you have to go home and build your country again, just as all other peoples have done throughout the ages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130221	Thank you, Minister. Yes, praise from political opponents may even be harmful, one should be aware of. But no one else has asked for the floor, and so the debate has ended after a relatively long and thorough debate on the question No. F 37, let's say. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 2 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130256	The debate is open, and that is what the Minister for Employment has to start. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428130311	Thank you. I would like to start with something quite unconventional for me, namely to commend the SF for the intentions of the resolution. We should not put much into that, other than that it is, after all, a recognition that we are interested in the problem, and we have now spent exactly three hours discussing it. And therefore it is also nice to be able to go further and continue to discuss it, namely how we move more immigrant women into the Danish labour market, so that they can support themselves more and contribute to Danish society. I agree one hundred percent that it is fundamental and also necessary that as many people as possible in Denmark, men as women, work and thus also contribute to the Danish economy. In addition, it is fortunately also the case that the vast majority of those who can want to be part of the working community. That is also why it is untenable that non-western immigrants, especially non-western women, are so significantly over-represented among people on public support. After all, we have spent many hours discussing this. Just to mention a few figures: Nonwestern immigrants amounted to 13 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2016. of all publicly supported persons, but only 7%. of the total population. And when it comes to married couples in the cash aid system, Western immigrants and descendants are not nearly 90%. by the married couples in the cash benefits system. These are violent and, I think, disturbing figures. Therefore, it is also gratifying that SF focuses on the fact that it is a challenge and that the number of people coming to Denmark actually means something for the integration task. That is why it is quite incomprehensible to me that the SF has voted against the integration and job reform and has even tabled a motion for a resolution in this Chamber to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Because it is precisely some of the tools that help to support that, for example. immigrants with relatively low qualifications also get a financial gain by taking a job at the minimum wage. So you actually get into doubt about what SF really wants in this area. In the motion for a resolution, the SF lays down, inter alia: up to the municipalities to create special courses to focus on helping immigrant women understand their role in the labour market. I have to say here that the municipalities are already able to do so today. It is essential that there are demands and incentives for job-oriented efforts in the municipalities. SF also suggests that immigrant women who have not worked before should be offered a mentor. This is also possible today, so there is not necessarily much new in it either. As a new feature, however, the SF proposes that immigrant women should have a training condition, as is the case for young recipients of training under 30 years of age in the cash benefits system. I do not really agree with SF on this, because if you are on cash benefits, you must have an effort aimed at jobs and self-reliance. In fact, we also agreed on this when we reached an agreement on the cash benefits reform back in 2013. And as I see it, the SF is thus setting up to repeat decades of failed integration policy, putting immigrants together on the school bench and believing that this is the way they learn to become part of the Danish labour market. Nothing is less sensible. That is absolutely the wrong step. We are generally dealing with a target group with a low level of education and a long history of public support. Here, the way to a better link to the labour market is primarily through interventions in companies, where you take on real tasks with colleagues, eat your lunch with colleagues and thus also speak the Danish language. This is precisely what can make a significant difference, both in terms of getting a connection with Danish society, but not least also in terms of learning the Danish language. Having said that, I would like to stress that according to the legislation in force, the municipalities have the opportunity to initiate up-skilling courses for cash benefit recipients as part of the employment effort, if the municipality considers that this is the right offer for the individual citizen in relation to getting into employment. There can be, among other things: be language teaching, which complements the efforts of enterprises. For the government it is crucial and entirely in line with the recommendations that came from the Carsten Koch Committee and it was a work that took place under the former Red Government that the integration task starts out at the companies. This was also the background to the tripartite agreement on integration concluded with the social partners. With the agreement, training can then take place in a link to a specific job. And I have to say that in the many companies I have visited and where I have seen this work in practice, it is a very good experience, I think, both to hear about the company's path, but not least to hear about the experiences of the individual employees, because they simply become more associated with Danish society and thus also learn the language. In this context, in addition to the experience I have gained during company visits, I would also like to highlight what we have seen in Odense, where, after examining a number of cash benefits cases with, among others, the municipality. Women with a non-Western background have found that, in the vast majority of cases, health was not a barrier to employment-oriented action as long as it was carried out with due care. It shows again that there is much to come for. In essence, it is also very thought-provoking that no more municipalities have allowed themselves to take an interest in their cash aid recipients in the way they are doing in Odense. It is, in fact, a human bankruptcy declaration. However, I am glad that several municipalities are already starting to be inspired by Odense and are going into dialogue on this initiative. And as it is also known, I have spread the knowledge I have received from Odense with a letter to the municipalities of the country. But after all this has been said, I think there is reason to pick up: the government does not believe that immigrant women over 30 years of age should have a training order. They have to go to companies to get into ordinary employment so that they can support themselves. Together with the Danish People's Party, the government has taken a large number of decisive steps to improve our integration. And I think it was one of the things the SF should be supporting and helping to develop policy around, if you want something in this area, rather than with many of the proposals that have been put forward, to go the opposite way. So with these arguments, the government rejects the proposal put forward by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131010	With that we thank the Minister and then we start the rapporteur's line. The first in line is sir. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131024	Thank you. Well, it's a lovely day. Everyone praises each other, everyone's happy, and it's almost weekend. I would also like to join in that chorus, and I would also like to commend the SF for giving us the opportunity for this debate. I think that's really good. It is quite true that there are far too few women with a non-Western background who are working far too few. I've been submerged in Danmarks Statistik to see how serious this really is. If we look at Danish women of working age, we will see that there are 76.5%. of those who are at work. If we look at women from Iraq who live here, we will see that it is 25.8%. When it comes to women from Afghanistan, it is 27.4%, and for women from Somalia it is 20.9%. It is just to mention some, because of course many other countries are also mentioned. So, yeah, it's serious. And yes, it is true that many of these women are not in the labour market. Therefore, many of them do not interfere with ordinary Danes either, at the risk of being held in their own culture. Why is that so bad? It is extremely important that all or as many as possible are part of the working community. Many of us know exactly what it means for one person to get out among others, to get colleagues, to be respected for his efforts and to know that one actually makes a difference. I have no doubt for a second that the best place to integrate into our society is in the labour market. Here you help each other. You become part of a community, and you expect something from each other. Here these women will learn the language, learn from other Danish women and find out what it's like to be a modern Danish woman, make friends and maybe start having free time with them outside the home. But is it that easy? Is it easy to get someone to go completely against your own culture and into something you don't even know? No, it never is, but we must, both because we think it is best for these women to get out and it is best for their family and because it is best for society if those women and their families contribute more to society than they do today. That is why the SF is quite right to say that, in order to get these women into the labour market, an extra effort must be made by society, by companies and, above all, by women and by the family. We must all wish it, and we must all want it. Although I very much agree with part of what the SF writes and with the positions I can see in the proposal, I cannot help wondering whether these proposals are the right ones. Who can be against women getting a better understanding of their participation in the labour market and their importance to our welfare societies? Who can be against helping them with a mentor, and who can at all be against giving them the opportunity to have their own economy, as the proposal describes? Nobody can do that. And if a training order that we successfully use for young people can help women into education and hence into the labour market, then it will be very good and something that we can easily do, as we have said before. My problem with this proposal is just whether it is the best way to do it. Can't the municipalities do things in advance? And not quite indifferent: what will it cost? The proposal says that the training schedule should be seen as a supplement to the extra effort and, when it says'support', I have to understand that it can actually cost more money than that. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, because we believe that the proposal should be described more clearly and that the funding should, of course, be clear and be found. Having said that, I hope that the Minister will listen to the debate. I know he does. But I also want to talk to the parties about this. I have no doubt that we are several parties who actually want to do something to help women enter the labour market. We heard just before another minister who was standing here talking nonsense, but here are some suggestions. We have also said several times that we want to, so we just want an invitation, and then as always we'll come over and help solve this. Because it is a huge problem that there are not so many of these women in the labour market, and I have no doubt, because I myself have been there for many years, that this is the way they come closer to our culture and are better integrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131508	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131514	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen for the kind and constructive way in which the Social Democratic Party has chosen to go to this motion for a resolution, so thank you for it. But now that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen himself started his rapporteur's speech by outlining these very violent figures as to how things stand for a number of groups of women with ethnic minority backgrounds, so I just think: what are we going to do? We have tried on the part of the SF to make a balanced motion for a resolution that balances the right and the duty, but in relation to the common objective we have of getting more of these women with ethnic minority backgrounds into the labour market, do I hear a commitment from the Social Democrats that they will try to work on the basis of the principles that are here? Or do you have any other proposals to take us towards the same goal, namely to get more of these women out to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131612	What we hear is simply that there is openness on our part. We don't mind sittin' with the SF and keep talking. We don't mind being called over to the minister, and then we can all talk. In fact, we think it is important. And, as has also been mentioned earlier today, we have supported the one on which the parties agreed. We have also applauded the fact that the City of Odense has turned the bunkers and found out that there are a lot of these women who can actually get closer to the labour market, and we have also said that with work first and Danish afterwards. So we have a lot of bids, but we just want to discuss it more, because it's super important. We are happy to discuss it with everyone; I would always like to discuss a resolution, but this is too important for us to do only that. We must also enter into good negotiations. That is precisely why I accepted the SF proposal in my speech, but that is also why I turned a little to the Left and looked at the Minister and said that we are always ready to come over to the Minister and see if we can do something together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131713	I would also like to emphasise once again my pleasure that the Social Democrats are so constructively involved in this debate on our proposals. I'd like to hear if not, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen could say what the position of the Social Democratic Party is in terms of making a training order. Well, a training order followed by a sanction, but above all by an offer to get out of the situation you are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131740	We have said that we see an educational requirement as a very good thing, and we actually believe that it can bring people into the labour market, and that is what it should do. After all, a training order is not a question of simply taking a fine and good-looking and long education. This may well help to ensure that they can actually enter the labour market through some courses. So we're ready to take a look. We think it's an exciting idea, but of course it needs to be worked together in the right way, and we also need to know exactly what the consequences of it are, and I just think you should work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131809	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428131817	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution, which has come from the SF and Mr. Karsten Hønge, is an excellent motion for a resolution which outlines some of the problems that actually involve women in the labour market. It is not something that we as such disagree with, so that there are problems with getting women into the labour market. Maybe it is just a question of the approach to it. Because, as we see in the Danish People's Party, if we are to succeed in getting refugees and immigrants into the labour market, we also need women, especially in this case, because it is about women that we need to start by demanding that they adapt to the labour market we have. In other words, before they can enter the labour market, they must forget about making special demands, forget about special dresses, forget about making demands on jobs. They simply have to conform to the working conditions that exist, otherwise they will not get a foothold on the labour market. That is our approach to it. Having said that, I think that many of the things that are outlined here in the motion for a resolution are in fact something that we can already do today. This is something the municipalities must address. We therefore believe that this can be done in the efforts which the municipalities must make towards women already today. There's a question in it, and it's about this with their own account. In fact, I don't think people can be charged with having separate accounts. I don't think you can say that people can't have a common account. Of course, that's something you can check out, but I don't think you can actually do that. And if they have separate accounts, what does it do if the man at home, when the money goes into the account, says: You need to transfer to my account? Then we're in the middle of it. Then it doesn't help that you have separate accounts. This is an issue in which I think it is necessary to dig more into it. I am not sure that one can demand that they have separate accounts and that the man should not influence the woman's account when they are married. I'm not sure. And if it's the case that the woman isn't strong enough to stand up to the man, then it doesn't help to have her own account either. But, of course, that is something you can investigate. Then there's this thing about the training plan. It may be very good to have a training order. If you are ready for the labour market and you have to have an education, you can be moved from being ready for activity to being ready for training and thus get a training order. The training conditions we have today go up to 30 years old. It may be, sir. Karsten Hønge may just be able to make a point if not before, so when Mr. Karsten Hønge now comes on the platform that the curriculum in the proposal should go further in age. That's how I got it, and Mr. Karsten Hønge nods, so that's how it is. However, we are not unwilling to look at how to make an effort to bring them closer to the labour market. We are just starting from the point of view of understanding from the outset how the labour market works and how it should operate in the labour market. But first of all, of course, it is the group that has been given the right to be in Denmark, and I also assume that it is they that are involved. However, as a starting point, we think that there is a great deal in this which we believe that at least the government and the Minister of Employment must make a change of approach to the municipalities so that they understand that there is something here that they can already do now. I also believe that this is one of the things that the Minister has already sent out to the municipalities, in other words to get the municipalities to make the effort they have to do. We cannot then see anything about the funding. It is somewhat unclear what this effort will cost, but perhaps it was something we could find out later. But since we believe that many of these things are going on in advance, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are questions from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132259	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Bent Bøgsted for a nuanced approach to it. There are some things that you can apparently support in the Danish People's Party, and then there are other things you are critical of. I think that is a very good way to enter the debate, but I would like to know if Mr. Bent Bøgsted could be a little more precise on the question of what things the Danish People's Party might be able to support. We have to say to each other that it is no use just shouting to different immigrant groups that they have to adapt, that they have to go to work and do one thing and the other, because we just have to see that the reality we are in turns out to be extremely difficult, because these women are not on the labour market. So I'd like to hear Mr. Bent Bøgsted's position on the attempt we are trying to make to balance justice and duty. It is an attempt to drag women into the labour market, partly through positive incentives and partly through a single pouf in the back with a training order. After all, not everyone gets into the labour market just because we want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132411	It is absolutely true that not everyone gets out there just because we want it. Part of the approach we have to it is that before they have to go out and try to get a foothold on the labour market, they must understand how the Danish labour market works. There is no point in saying that they must now enter the labour market, and then they will be put into practice, for example. Bilka, where perhaps only a third or a tenth stays while the others disappear because they have not understood what they are being sent out into. It could be somewhere else they're being sent out to. Now I just mentioned Bilka, but it could also be Danish supermarkets in general, and it could be all sorts of other places that they are being sent out to. They must understand the role they have, namely that they must enter the labour market and learn to adapt to the labour market that we have and not make special demands. One of the most important points for the Danish People's Party is: Forget about special requirements. They must learn how the Danish labour market works. They must conform to the labour market; it is not the labour market that has to conform to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132518	I have to say that I agree with Mr Tugendhat far along the way. Bent Bøgsted. That is how our jobs work and that is how they should work. In fact, I would like to give Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right. That is why it is also in the SF's proposal to support women's introduction to the labour market. It is one of these. in one of our proposals that they should be introduced to and given explanations on how the Danish labour market works. That is one of the points. Another point is that one gets a mentor so that one is sure that one almost handheld gets explained what it means to get into a Danish workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132552	As far as I know, municipalities have the opportunity to make a mentor available if someone has some problems in the labour market. In fact, I believe they already have the opportunity to do so today. And then I would say to it about a training order that when we talk about a training order, it is because you can take an education and then get a job because of that education. I do not think it is enough to say that one should learn Danish as an educational requirement. It's something you have to start with. I believe that a training order should be targeted at taking an education that can be used in a profession.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132631	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Klaus Markussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428132639	Thank you. In the comments on the resolution we are debating today, the SF writes that we must help those women who are not allowed by their men to work. I do not think anyone is or can disagree with that, nor have I heard any of the previous rapporteurs express that. Of course, we must help immigrant women who are unable to become part of the Danish labour market because their husbands order them to leave home in different ways. The social control that restricts these women must, of course, be stopped. But is this motion for a resolution from the SF the best way to give immigrant women the opportunity to become part of the Danish labour market? I do not think so, because I believe that large parts of the resolution are already present in the existing legislation. Let us just take a recent example, as the Minister also pointed out: the municipality of Odense went after the medical statements of registered cash aid recipients and found that nine out of ten immigrant women could actually be declared ready for work. It may say something about us as a society, as a system, having run a little after autopilot. I note that the Minister has sent a letter to all 98 municipalities in the country referring to the City of Odense. The municipalities can easily learn from each other, and we must maintain that we have good activities with job perspectives that we just need to be better at initiating. As far as training courses for cash aid recipients are concerned as part of the employment effort, I have to say that this is already an opportunity for the municipalities if they consider this to be the right thing for the individual citizen on the road to employment. Then there is the part of the proposal which deals with training requirements. Cash benefits recipients must be able to be subject to training requirements in order to receive cash benefits, says the SF. But the Left does not think that is the right way to go. Efforts should be directed towards companies. We know that this is where integration is moving, and we need it. Then we must also say that in the situation we are in right now, the Left believes that what is needed is for immigrant women, like everyone else, to enter the labour market. There's work to be done on cash benefits. That was among other things. That is why, at the time, we introduced useful jobs which have proved to be a great success. Just in Horsens Municipality, I understand, it's one in three who's been doing a useful job that's become self-supporting. After all, the former Left Government introduced the 225-hour rule, which is based precisely on working for cash aid and thus getting a foot in the labour market. It's all about making it attractive to take a job. A training order aimed at immigrant women ends up being a disservice. This is not the same as saying that I do not recognise that there can be strong social control, which means that the employment rate among immigrant women is low. With the initiatives I have already mentioned, we are going some way towards breaking that control. In addition, I also think it is worth mentioning the National Action Plan on Combating Social Control, which was drawn up in October 2016. It contains a number of initiatives aimed precisely at combating negative social control. Here, among other things. established advisory services to municipalities on the prevention and handling of cases of negative social control. In this way, we ensure that municipalities act in a timely and consistent manner, as well as helping municipal employees to act more effectively in cases where there may be misunderstood considerations of foreign cultures and standards. All in all, the Left does not think that this resolution is the right way to ensure equality for immigrant women. We fully agree with the intentions. We must, of course, ensure that immigrant women enter the labour market and are not ordered to be at home by their men. However, on the basis of the points I have made here, the Left cannot support the SF motion for a resolution. And then I'll just say hello to Mr. Kim. Rasmus Jarlov and say that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133131	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133135	I think that we are again seeing the Left, represented here by Mr. Klaus Markussen, stand in a position where you so annoy yourself about reality. It is noted that there are some very sad figures for employment for a number of women from certain countries, including women with a minority background. You're annoyed that it's the way it is, and then you think it's gonna help something to yell at them. You think it helps something just to make their lives miserable by setting up a cash-aid ceiling. But if you really wanted something, could you not see this resolution as an attempt to strike a balance between right and duty? I mean, you could say, why is that? It's also too bad they need a mentor, and why don't they just get it today? But if we can see that this does not actually happen then clearly it could not be a contribution to both raising hands in three of the proposals that could draw women into the labour market and at the same time providing an economic incentive that could actually work in this specific situation and bring more women into the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133243	Thank you. I also hope that the impression is that we think the proposal is sympathetic and that the intentions of the proposal are sympathetic. Let me say, as we also mentioned in the previous debate, that we have four specific points that are at least moving in the right direction. Sir. Karsten Hønge himself mentions the ceiling on cash benefits, and I would add the 225-hour rule that makes it attractive to take a job. In addition, concrete efforts are being made so that it is not possible to go around cash benefits for years without a job-oriented effort. In addition, we focus on the fact that there are initiatives coming in the municipalities, which illustrate what you do elsewhere, where you do well yourself, so benchmarking, that the municipalities learn from each other. It must carry things forward. Finally, there is the important initiative to debureaucratise and simplify the entire employment effort of the many employees around the municipalities who work with it here. It will also bear things in the right direction in relation to the situation of immigrant women. And those initiatives we think we need to see work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133357	I think it's amazing that sir... Klaus Markussen says that there will be economic incentives, where I can just see that they do not necessarily work because you just put a great deal of general social pressure on a lot of people without pointing them out of it. You think that just by pushing people and pushing people down, they're gonna try to escape from it, but they can't necessarily do it. This proposal is that we put economic pressure on it, while at the same time giving concrete and precise indications of how to get away from that pressure by providing them with training.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133438	I think that the government's efforts are just the right one, namely that there is a great deal of focus on removing bureaucracy and simplifying rules. We must learn from each other, we must inspire each other in the municipalities of the country. In addition, there is the job premium, which was adopted last month, and which is a further incentive for work to be worthwhile. This is the path we need to take, namely the business-oriented path, to ensure that this integration works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133513	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133515	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we admit that a business-oriented effort is a really, really good effort to get unemployed into work, including the unemployed we are talking about here. But I think that it sounds as if the Minister is saying that it is the only thing that brings happiness. We admit that if there is a business-oriented effort with a job at the end and a company aware of the challenges such as the one we are facing. Someone with a non-Western background, it can be a great effort. It can be crucial for that person to get into that process and get a job, so we acknowledge that. However, does the rapporteur not think that there could be situations where an educational effort before that, a learning effort or a preparatory effort could ensure that even more, who are very unprepared for the Danish labour market, might also have a chance to come along?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133616	What I'm hearing isn't a either-or. What I hear is that we start with a business-oriented effort, but that it does not necessarily stand alone and that other additional initiatives are supported. But the starting point must be that the road to sustainable employment, real employment, is best achieved by taking the starting point and focusing on enterprise-oriented action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133652	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428133706	Thank you very much. Thank you to the SF for presenting this proposal, which gives rise to a debate with a great deal more substance than we arrived at under the previous item on the agenda. This is an important discussion. It is important to recognise that here is a challenge and there are also some very good intentions in this proposal. If you look at the comments, you can see that a number of specific initiatives have been mentioned: special programmes aimed at immigrant women in order to draw a different picture of their role in the home and in the labour market; retraining of case workers so that they can better understand the mechanisms and culture of such families and thus also be better at helping women towards the labour market; linking a mentor already at the first training course; and helping to get a own bank account and a course in economics. I do not see this point as a pretext, a dictatorship, but as an aid to a more independent economic space. That is an excellent suggestion. If we move on to the other half, we see that there are also good proposals. The Enhedslisten fully agrees that Danish education, social education, democracy and equality and general education must be at the heart. This is the gateway to the labour market and to further education, and in the view of the Enhedslisten far too little is being done today. If, unfortunately, the parties who agree that this is a good idea, not all parties could perhaps start working on it and hopefully with a new majority in the Danish Parliament get increased efforts in this area, that would be very good. On that track, Enhedslisten is much more in agreement with SF than we are with the government and the bourgeois parties, who in fact in practice reject exactly the right approach. For the kind of education mentioned here by the SF • Danish education, general school knowledge, social conditions etc. In fact, what the government and the bourgeois parties are saying here is that it is much, much better to keep these women in some low-wage jobs, unskilled jobs, and, in such a way, to be able to obtain the qualifications that will both give them a stronger position in the home and a stronger position in the labour market. So praise to the SF for cultivating that angle. I think that is very positive. Where the chain jumps off for Enhedslisten is, of course, when we talk about training instructions. We simply do not believe that it will work. There is the fact that you take the cash aid away from them if they do not participate in the courses you run. It can immediately sound very logical and as right and duty and all that. We are just afraid that in those cases where you use it, you risk making the woman even more dependent on the man. Because in those families where the man's domination is so strong that he can keep the woman away from education, the threat is unlikely to help. And in those families where the husband has understood the need for the wife to become part of Danish society, that threat is not necessary. So it is very likely that the opposite result will be achieved: the woman becomes even more addicted because she does not receive cash benefits herself; the family becomes even poorer, which affects the children, unless the family finds solutions to the economic issue that we do not want to put into words here in the Folketing. As far as I know, there's no evidence that this method would work either. Well, maybe you can force some more to sit down on the school bench, but if they haven't understood the need, if they just do it for fear of losing some money and may even have even more problems on the home front because they are participating in the teaching, then it doesn't help in the long run. That's why it has to be said that the quick fix to get these women into the labour market, on which this may be a little based, doesn't exist. The only long-lasting thing is the tough social policy move. These are tools such as those presented by the proposers in the first half. Part of the social policy effort must also be a determined effort to convince the men that I do not have the opportunity to address the men in this discussion that their wife's participation in Danish society is beneficial to the whole family. So we must equip this massive social policy effort. That's where we're gonna start. It needs to be turned up instead of turning down the family's dependency base. It is fragile enough already with integration benefits, a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134216	It was just in the minute! Then there is a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134222	It must be a fundamental misunderstanding from Mr. Finn Sørensen's side, if he gets the impression anywhere in this place that this is a quick fix. There isn't. The SF is very aware that if we are to move on and get women with ethnic minority backgrounds into the labour market in particular, there are many different tools to be used, and that is not something that happens over a weekend. We are very aware of this. I'd just like to ask sir. Finn Sørensen, if you have not come across these proposals in the Enhedslisten through dialogues with women with ethnic minority backgrounds. For I would say that for the SF, this has come to the world through many dialogues with many different women with ethnic minority backgrounds, and the vast majority have pointed out that it must be a balanced proposal that is both something that reaches into the labour market and something that pushes in. Everyone basically agrees that this will mean something when you sit in the families and think about the economy, because you have a choice. That is the difference between this and all sorts of other things, where you put economic pressure on groups of the population here you get a way out of that pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134337	Yes, I am not going to deny that, and we have also heard that this view exists, including in immigrant communities, namely that it would probably be good to have such a notice. And in the best of all worlds it might have been worth discussing too. But one thing that probably plays a role for the Enhedslisten in this is that we simply do not trust that it will be applied in a way that actually helps to support the intention of the excellent intention that is with it. That is not the key, because the crucial thing is that we do not believe in it, and that is why we were not involved in the cash benefits reform either. That was at least one of the reasons why we were not in it and that we did not support it either when Poul Nyrup introduced this training order at the time. We just don't believe it, and we haven't seen it yet either, because there are tools of this kind in the legislation in advance, just to other groups that it should actually help something in relation to the intention one has. We have yet to see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134443	I am truly surprised that Mr. Finn Sørensen says. There is therefore evidence that training requirements for young people under 30 years of age are working. The difference is that some people believe that just putting massive economic pressure like this in general will lead to something, while this means putting economic pressure, yes, but at the same time very concretely and precisely indicating how people get out of it, offering work, training and doing two things at the same time. And that's why it's part of this proposal that it's the social workers who assess the situations in which it can be used. This is a chance for women to have more freedom, and it is an opportunity for society to get more people into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134526	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are examples and figures showing that the training instructions introduced in the recent cash aid reform lead to more people being enrolled in training, but, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is not the same as it works, understood in that it also carries out training and that it is an education that they can actually use. On the contrary, common sense will tell us that if we are forced to embark on exactly the same thing as education, we may not have understood the need for it. And it has created problems elsewhere, at vocational schools, but it does not necessarily have anything to do with this proposal. But I still miss seeing that this kind of economic incentive, or whatever we should call it, should be a good tool to equip the job centres. I think I have a concern there that it will be used just like all the other extra tools that the job centres have on that track.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134632	I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that it is an enormously important task to get the many immigrant women who are currently on public support into the labour market. This is a very good idea for the individual woman and for society. Non-Western immigrants are massively over-represented in unemployment statistics, and they are because, through a failed integration policy, we have maintained them in unemployment. It is therefore also nice that it seems that the SF has finally realised the extent of the problem. I am surprised, however, that the SF has repeatedly voted against proposals which encourage this group to move more quickly into the labour market when suddenly it is so concerned with the challenge. The proposals that the SF makes in the motion for a resolution are measures that the municipalities can already make use of today. The only new feature of the SF's proposal is that immigrant women should have a training order. And it just tells me that the SF will continue to abandon the women and continue the failed integration policy by placing immigrants in a teaching room together with a lot of other immigrants and then hope that they will magically get a job. That is not what is needed. What is needed is that we make demands on these women and that they get to work as soon as possible, because it is at the workplace that the best integration takes place. It is through the daily meeting with strong independent Danish women that the non-western immigrants are motivated to change their lives and get a network outside the narrow circles in which they normally find themselves. The government has launched a number of initiatives aimed precisely at making demands on immigrant women who are far from the labour market. The ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit are all measures that are moving in the right direction. These are measures which increase the incentive to move quickly into the labour market, but which do so by making demands. This is the way we should go rather than the way the SF wants, where women are given training rather than allowing them to enter the labour market quickly. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134852	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134857	It was a relatively strong diet to be told that this proposal actually fails women when, through four proposals, we are clearly trying to find solutions to how to get more women into the labour market. However, I understand that Mrs Laura Lindahl still has the role of just shouting at the immigrant groups. You yell for women: you just have to get into the labour market, so why don't you? It is said that they should be there and that it is also too bad and that it is through the daily meeting with strong women at work that they can become self-employed. I find that difficult to disagree with, but the whole point is how to get these women with ethnic minority backgrounds into the labour market. They do not get in, just by shouting at them, and if they lack basic Danish knowledge, an educational requirement might be what could both bring women in that situation freedom in their lives and make them able to contribute to the labour market. Because what Mrs Laura Lindahl has to say about is that the figures are not really moving in relation to getting these women with ethnic minority backgrounds into jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428134956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135000	I have a little doubt as to what the specific question was, but I can simply repeat what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we are interested in making demands on these women. We believe that the way to work goes by making demands, whereas what the SF now wants to do is to force them into some classrooms where they can then sit with other equals and learn a language, and then you think that once they have learned that language, they will come out and get a job. That is exactly the approach we are in the process of ending. We can see that you do not have to learn a language first to get a job. You have to get a job, and then you have to learn the language while. That is why we continue to abandon women if we do what the SF proposes. You have to do exactly what the government started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135051	That is simply not a fair way of discussing. Of course, one can say that we just have to stop the discussion, because we are not getting any smarter from it. In other words, if the rapporteur is not in a position to go in and take a slightly different view of these proposals, then of course it does not make a great deal of difference. But the point is that it is not just about education being the answer. It's about looking at a package where we're really trying to pull and push these women in. Because when we look at it today, we can see that the figures are still dramatically bad, and instead of saying that the answer is simply to continue putting general economic pressure on all sorts of people who cannot move, you could see this as an attempt to do something very concrete and something very precise. You can learn to speak Danish in connection with language practice and in all sorts of other ways, but getting these women free from some of the patterns they're stuck in, I think LA could actually support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135142	Well, as mentioned earlier in the debate we have had today, the Liberal Alliance, in cooperation with Lejerbo in Mjølnerparken, has been out suggesting that all residents of Mjølnerparken should be deprived of cash assistance, and it says that Lejerbo, who is also very close to these women, would be able to make a much closer contact with them. They would be able to offer these women small jobs that they could take care of as they could grow and learn to be in the labour market. For these are women who may have been away from the labour market for 25 to 30 years. It is not done simply sending them into a classroom and then thinking that they are ready to go out and work 37 hours. It is a very, very long process that we must start.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135233	The alternative would like women with a non-Western background to join the working community if they could in any way. They have to be in education and work if they can in any way, like all other unemployed people. We share that ambition with most parties in the Folketing. We think that in this motion for a resolution from the SF there are several good proposals to bring women with a non-western background into the labour market. And we also agree that these people should be given an educational opportunity, as this proposal implies. I think that the Minister's speech may have focused a great deal on company practice. I admit that a really applied company practice at a good company with a job at the end of the tunnel is a very good way to get people into the labour market. But I think it is going to be a bit of a business romantic if you say it's the only way. So, Danes and immigrants and refugees in many cases enjoy little education, little schooling, little learning. It can build a bridge, and I believe that if we exclude that possibility, we will unfortunately also exclude some from entering the labour market. I myself worked in 2008 with the ISS, where we qualified Somali immigrants to enter the labour market, Somali refugees. What ISS said to us and to the municipality or other actors was: Give them some personal and social skills that they lack to understand the Danish working culture. Teach them what you talk about during a lunch break and what you don't talk about during a lunch break. Teach them how to greet a workplace. Teach them how to resolve conflicts in a workplace. That's what ISS said. And this was done in the municipality and among other actors. Then the ISS said, we'll teach them the rest. Then we'll teach them something about cleaning, catering, property service and a little job Danish. But that bridge, which was actually educational, was quite crucial for these projects. This was, like I said, in 2008, and it went really well. In 2010, it stopped. There it went down. Then the boom went away and was replaced by a crisis, and all the immigrants and refugees went back into unemployment. So we are very much in agreement that people should be given an educational opportunity, an opportunity for training. What we do not agree with is that their cash benefits should be reduced if they do not meet the training requirement. That is, when coercion becomes necessary, it is because we no longer have the right offers. We believe that we can get more people into work and more people into the community by turning down force, control, administration and turning up other mechanisms that work better. It may be outreach work directed directly to the families where you experience social control. It may be a social worker who knocks on the door, comes in, eats and gets to talk to the family about dreams and opportunities and the family's children and Danish work • and in general: How do we move on? These may be schemes such as neighbourhood mothers, where strong immigrant women, who have themselves come out of social control and entered the labour market, will be associated as mentor for some of the women who have problems with being able to go that way themselves. These may be entrepreneurial projects such as Somali Food in Aarhus V, where an advanced municipal employee has engaged ten Somali women in creating a catering company. It could be mapping and validating these women's skills. It can, for example, be done. be that some of them have many children and are used to making a lot of food. Well, it's skills that can be used in Danish society. It may be a whole family living together, many children and grandparents. Well, these are care skills that those people don't even know they possess to a degree that is very, very topical in terms of getting work. So many of those people actually possess some skills that they don't dream there's so much need in the Danish jobs. It might also be good to have it mapped out. On the whole, I think we should also look at projects that work rather than start forcing people. Take e.g. the project that Helle Øbo, director of AskovFonden today, did with 21 of the most vulnerable families in Vollsmose. She had two years with these families. She knocked on their door, came in and talked to them. There wasn't a single one who said no. She had to talk to them and their children about dreams and opportunities and work. Some called for three visits, others called for ten visits. In 18 of the 21 families, some of their children ended up in education or work. It is clear that in those families there were piles of letters from the municipality in the hall, and they just got coarser and coarser. They weren't even opened anymore. The city was the enemy. They were the ones they had learned to sign up for when they came to visit. Just to finish off: If it's the case that some people should be curious about the project and the results that were created there, then there's a report called "Network Building". No one is hopeless and it's published by Youth's Well. So in the alternative, we would like to supplement with methods other than sanctions. And that is only for one reason: we believe that it will bring more people into the Community, not least in the working community. That is why we agree with the intentions of this resolution, but we do not support the method.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135743	It gave rise to a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135746	First of all, thank you for a very constructive and nuanced approach to it. I also think we got some good input and contributions from the Alternative, in terms of how you look at this challenge. So thank you for that. There was exactly one thing, sir. Torsten Gejl felt that it was not possible to enter into sanctions at all. Now I am here with a chronicle written by the Alternative's own parliamentary candidate in Copenhagen, Henrik Marstal, where he writes: "All ethnic minority women must, if they are not ill, be subject to an education requirement in order to receive cash benefits and thus contribute to the household's common economy. Such a law would give these women a better chance of being able to live an economically more independent life without, as now, having to go begging for their husbands. - What's that, sir? Torsten Gejl's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135844	It's that I'm in charge of this case. I am the Employment Rapporteur for the Alternative. Henrik Marstal is a parliamentary candidate for the alternative, and he can air such opinions. But that is what I am saying that applies, and that is that we will not sanction by taking cash aid from anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135901	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135904	Yeah, yeah, I get that it's Torsten Gejl's word that's law. But now I'm just thinking that just as well as that, sir. Torsten Gejl was very well able to relate to the subtle and constructive nature of SF's action, Mr. Torsten Gejl may also be sensitive and constructive to the popular candidate for the alternative in Copenhagen Henrik Marstal's statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135926	No, not really. Well, now my word isn't law in this room. I hope it will be one day, but no, we won't compromise on it. We are in favour of cash benefits without counterclaims. We believe that we can get more people into work by moving money and funds from control and coercion and administration into an active, strong effort to support the unemployed in getting to work either through training or through business practices or whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135948	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428135956	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are generally very much in favour of the proposal here. Education is and education gives confidence in its own opportunities. It is a prerequisite for being able to seize them as well. There are many women with other ethnic backgrounds who have been in Denmark for years and have not been given the opportunities to train and develop their own competences, contribute the resources they obviously have, like many other unemployed cash aid recipients who could get a lot of money out of getting training, perhaps learning something new, getting a different education, so that it will also be possible to change tracks and not hang on where you lost the job. Because I am assuming that the proposal here, even though it is very focused on women with other ethnic backgrounds, must apply to all cash benefits recipients who need training and who, of course, are able to complete an education if they cannot get to work. And that must apply regardless of whether it is women or men and no matter where they come from. It must be that way. I guess we don't make legislation for a certain ethnicity or a certain sex. I don't suppose so. So, just as for young people under the age of 30, a training order for cash benefit recipients over the age of 30 should be aimed at providing more opportunities to enter the labour market and move on and thus also have more opportunities. And, of course, as I said, this cannot only apply to women with a certain ethnicity. I just find that difficult to imagine at all is legal. So, of course, this must also apply to the unemployed 3F, for whom training can be exactly what it takes to have more opportunities for new employment. However, I now also have a certain amount of veneration for some of the views just expressed by the Alternative's rapporteur. I have also spent a great deal of time with the town mothers, who are doing an excellent job. Every time I leave, I go with a resounding echo in my head from these cool women who say: Education is the most important thing we can give ourselves. And for many of them, this is especially true of their children. Last time I met them, one of these women gave me a very good tip, a line with which I simply cannot forget and which is also stuck in my head. She was herself engaged in dental training and had spent some years getting stuck in a marriage that was not good. And that is one of the things the town mothers contribute to, that is to say, to give women enough confidence to break out of things that are sustaining. She asked me if I knew what a cold Turk was. I said, I guess I thought I had an idea what it was. And she explained to me that it is when women in their groups have had enough confidence to say: I am the one who decides, I am the one who wants education, I am the one who shapes my own direction. It is when they can find a way of saying it to those who surround them, and who do not necessarily want to know whether it is on the part of the municipality or in the home • is concerned with what it is that gives women self-determination. Another experience I had a few months ago with a district mother in Albertslund who, after many years in conversation with the municipality in the cash aid system, had been in different educations and had not really succeeded in anything, but she insisted on being successful. She got her education and now functions completely independently. It was because there was a good caseworker who held on and said: "We'll find what suits you and who can make you move. Fortunately, I also have many good examples of this. So there is no doubt that education is I assume that that is what SF's intention here is, although it is not so clear from the motion for a resolution how exactly it should be carried out in practice. But at any rate we are also concerned about the fact that these are opportunities that we give to more people and that no one is left without being able to move, and also that we would like to see whether we can spread those experiences because the success of a training plan for young people under 30 years of age, as also the SF's rapporteur said, is precisely to take and feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140546	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140549	Thank you for one, I think, such a nuanced approach to our proposal. Nor could we claim that with this resolution we should have come into every corner. I can easily understand Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's question as to whether we have now come around in every corner, but we cannot do so in a resolution. I heard that in the end, but I just want to be absolutely sure: do you support the radical idea of a training order followed by sanctions? That's one. The second point is that I sometimes think that this is one of the reasons why our discussions on integration have gone wrong and that things are muddy and mixed together. It is true that when we make laws, it applies to everyone, but what is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen going to achieve by mixing a 3F into it? This is not because it should not apply to a 3F, but we are trying to focus on a particular effort for women who are subject to social control, who do not even have their own bank account, who cannot see any stepping stones entering the labour market. It is to them that we want to make a special effort, because there are some dramatically poor figures for a number of groups of women with ethnic minority backgrounds. I think it is a pity that you sometimes muddle those discussions by saying that others are also concerned, that the 3F is also the case, but the typical 3F is not subject to this type of social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140704	I have no intention of mutating anything at all. The SF motion for a resolution is about a training order for cash aid recipients, and that is what is not so clear in the motion for a resolution. I think it is excellent to highlight the fact that there is a group here that really needs more opportunities and also for the release from social control and, of course, a right to own bank account etc. That is just not what the resolution here is about. Then we could have a debate on social control and the opportunities there. We also have that at times, and that is also relevant. But now it is the concrete proposal that I am taking a position on, and I just think it is appropriate to point out that it should of course apply to everyone. For there are many who might need more training opportunities while on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140757	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140801	The resolution consists of four different parts, but I would just like to ask again whether it is the case that the Radical Left and the SF reach each other in the idea of combining a training order with a sanction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140816	Here you go, Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140820	After all, we share the view that we should have adopted a training order for young people under 30 years of age, and when we adopt a notice, it is, of course, subject to a sanction if it cannot be complied with. As long as it has been decided that this is actually something that is developmental and that contributes to the individual being given more opportunities, and as long as it applies to everyone, so that it is not discriminatory on the basis of gender or ethnicity, then we are in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140846	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428140855	Thank you to all the rapporteurs and to the Minister for having dealt with this motion for a resolution by the SF. The SF resolution is a contribution to the struggle for freedom, liberation and independence that many women with ethnic minority backgrounds are leading in solitude in families. As integration consultant Halime Oguz, who has even experienced the struggle on his own body, has written: It's about... to strike a wedge into the patriarchal structures that prevail in many of these minority communities. Unfortunately, my experience tells me that far too many men are taking on the role of women's guardians in the heavily burdened residential areas. They count down to the minimum 100 crown bill whether it is worthwhile for the woman to be on cash benefits or take a job. These men have no interest in their women being given a more secure foothold in the labour market, because they could then be able to fight for independence, thereby renouncing the man's domination. SF's proposal is to reach out more hands to women. That is why we have prepared it in dialogue with several women with ethnic minority backgrounds. With this resolution, the SF wants to reach out four hands to support women's struggle for freedom in order to gain control of their own lives. Three hands are about drawing with concrete offers. It is about special courses to help women understand their role in the labour market; about women who have never had a job getting a mentor; and a course for women so that they can more easily access e.g. to get a bank account of your own. The fourth hand gives a boost to the back by introducing a requirement to take an education. The training schedule should not apply to all, but only to those who are deemed to benefit from it. The training schedule is targeted at cash aid recipients who need training or better Danish skills if the municipality at the same time considers that it can improve the individual's situation, strengthen equality and break the language barrier. An education strengthens the opportunities to gain a foothold, not only in the labour market but also in life itself • even if it is just a Danish education 2. SF is convinced that the so-called economic incentives are working. Therefore, the prospect of cash benefits disappearing may be just the pouf that makes the whole family decide that it would be a good idea if mother gets started with an education. We do not believe that financial incentives will work if it is simply a matter of putting down services in general without offering opportunities at the same time. In our view, this proposal is a precise combination of an economic pouf and a concrete offer of training. We have also been inspired by a chronicle written by Özlem Cekic and Henrik Marstal, in which they write: "If the debate is to lead to results, it is obvious to look at how gender relations are developing in strongly patriarchal-based ethnic minority homes. Unfortunately, it is sometimes the case here that married women and daughters are being held down by structures that prevent them from living their own lives...... They continue: • All ethnic minority women, if they are not ill, must be subject to a training requirement in order to be able to receive cash benefits and thus contribute to the household's common economy. Such a law would give these women a better chance of being able to live an economically more independent life without, as now, having to go begging for their husbands. SF thinks we should reach out these four hands to women's struggle for freedom, but also as something that will end up contributing to the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428141316	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the proposers. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170428141329	The Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business and regulation. R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. 4 to give the Folketing a written regional and rural policy statement 2017. R 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 4 May 2017.] There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 May 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
