ParlaMint-DK_20170131130015	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130021	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130026	Thank you. It is the last day of January, but it is the first extended Question Time this year, which means that our good colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands are taking part today. It's always a pleasure, and pleasures must be gathered. Speaking of pleasures, last Thursday I had the great pleasure of joining the DM in skills in Aalborg, not as a participant, but as a speaker, but now it does not shake the fact that it was a pleasure to experience how many talented, committed young people we have in Denmark who really want their craftsmanship. It looks good for the future, and it shows the value of the strong Danish education system. Before Christmas, the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party agreed to set a limit on how many higher education courses can be taken. This has given rise to a certain amount of criticism, and we have listened to that criticism. That is why we have published earlier today an adjustment to the agreement, which means that if you have taken an education and tested it for a number of years, there is also the possibility of changing tracks. It is an opportunity that comes on top of the many possibilities already available, for example. the positive list of courses where there is no further unemployment. And the money we save will then be used to create a safer benefit system. It is a priority that we can be familiar with. On the other hand, something we cannot be familiar with is if we leave the country's homeowners insecure. And that is why the government has today resumed this autumn's negotiations on housing taxes. We are basically of the opinion that if you can afford to buy a home and your own economic conditions then, by the way, do not change, you must also be able to afford to stay in it and the tax you have to pay must be calculated and calculated on a fair basis. That is why, in November, we reached a broad agreement on a new assessment system which corrects the mistakes that have been made and which means that for a lot of homeowners, who today pay too much in housing tax, it creates the basis for us to be able to repay in the region of 9 billion. kr. to homeowners who have paid too much. Now we must complete the work by, hopefully, concluding a broad agreement on housing taxation. The government has announced clearly: First of all, we want to freeze the ground debt for owner-occupied housing until 2021, just as we have done with the government parties and the Danish People's Party in 2016 and 2017. Secondly, we want to give birth to the future housing tax system with a permanent tax rebate for the present homeowners. Because if you do not do so, if you start watering down the tax debate, as I have heard from some parties, then you run the risk that current homeowners will experience quite large increases in housing taxes. Thirdly, we want a simplified housing tax system with only a tax rate. People who live in the most expensive homes already pay most in housing tax, and so it will be if the government's priorities are followed. Now the negotiations have begun, and I would like to thank the parties participating for a constructive approach, and I hope that it will be possible, within a not too incalculable future, to have an agreement that calms the economy of the homeowners. That would only be fair. Reasonably, it will also be that we increase the penalty for shooting in public space. That is why the government has already called for the first negotiations tomorrow on the gangplay we presented at the government seminar this weekend. It is a gamble that puts hard on the ground, which gives the police more tools, and which raises the penalty for shooting significantly, and that is what is needed. I want the gangs behind bars. I hope for good and constructive negotiations both on one and the other on housing taxes and gang packages. Fortunately, we also have a tradition of this, just as we also have a tradition of having a good dialogue across the Kingdom community. On 12 January this year I had a good and constructive meeting with Greenland's Home Ruler, Kim Kielsen, and on Thursday I meet with the Faroese lagman, Aksel V. Johannese. I very much appreciate the frank cooperation we have, both with Greenland and the Faroe Islands and all three together in the Kingdom Community, and I also appreciate the cooperation with the North Atlantic representatives here in the Danish Parliament, which is why I have been looking forward to this Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130537	Thank you. And we now move on to questions from the party leaders. I must point out that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party, is not taking part in today's Question Time. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. The first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130605	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much for the comments made by the Prime Minister. I hope not only that this Question Time will be a pleasure, but hopefully also very informative. The revenues from Thule Air Base Pituffik are previously estimated to amount to 10%. of Greenland's total tax revenue. The government's then Foreign Minister Kristian Jensen also referred to Thule as DONG times ten, and this underlines the political and economic importance for Greenland. In recent years there has been a decline in activity on Pituffik, which has affected Greenland economically and which will also do so increasingly in the coming years, not least because of the service contract, which at the last call for tenders went to the US company Exelis Services. The Prime Minister is the minister of the whole Kingdom Community, as the Prime Minister himself mentioned, and therefore is at the heart of the matter of safeguarding the interests of the Kingdom Community. In the negotiations on the new criteria for the supply of the service contract at Pituffik, the government has supported Naalakersuisut's efforts to ensure that it becomes a Greenlandic-Danish company, which is also included in the defence agreement, which will help to secure the service obligations on the base. It is a clear demand from Greenland, both from Naalakkersuisut and from Inatsisartut, and it is something that we will not give way from Greenland. We have been informed in the Greenland Committee that the government, of which the Prime Minister is the head, will comply with the adoption text of the Danish Parliament from January 2015 on Pituffik, and that this adoption text will form the basis for the negotiations that are taking place. However, the text adopted by Mr Inatsisartut has not been mentioned by the government. In Heri it is very clear that a broad majority in Inatsisartut wants a return on American presence on Greenlandic soil, but when and whether the government will follow the adoption of Inatsisartut is so uncertain. That is why this leads me to ask the Prime Minister: Does the government maintain Greenlandic or Danish interests and will it respect both the adoption texts of the Folketing and Inatsisartut in the negotiations on the criteria for the new offer of the service contract for Pituffik?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130830	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130831	Thank you. I see no contradiction between Greenland and Danish interests. It is quite true, as we are told, that this service contract is of great importance to Greenland and to Greenland's economy. That is why this is also an important matter, which at the moment, as the questioner well knows, is under negotiation between Denmark and the United States. There have been a series of legal proceedings, and now there is probably a room where negotiations can be made again. But I also have to say that there has been a new American administration. It must be put in place and it is coming into place before these negotiations can continue. And there the government will work to get as quickly as possible clarification as possible in recognition that this is a complex matter, and of course also have a decision that is as satisfactory in terms of Greenland's interests as possible. It is the Foreign Minister who is running this case and if we are going to go into it in more detail, I will refer to him.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130945	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131130948	Thank you very much for your answer. I expected the Prime Minister to say that Greenland and Denmark are united in these negotiations, and that is how it should be in relation to the United States. From the IA's side we have followed the case in both Inatsisartut, Naalaksuisut and now here in the Danish Parliament over the past few years, and it has to be said that the time is running out we have a temporary contract which will be taken over by Exelis Services on 1 October, and there will also be a transitional period. So it has to be said that time is very much under pressure in this matter. At the same time, it can also be said that the criteria and the defence agreement are not linked, as it is today, to the tender procedure and the criteria on which it is based. And as far as I am aware, the government's established working group, in cooperation with Greenland, has not succeeded in negotiating new criteria. This means that, following the US judgment, Exelis Services is now taking over the service contract here later this year. We are in a situation where an American company takes over the service contract, and I would like to know if the Prime Minister thinks that the government has done enough to negotiate these new criteria in place. When we are faced with a situation that does not meet a defence agreement that it should be a Greenlandic-Danish company, can one say on the part of the government that every effort has been made to ensure that it fell into place before the new administration joined the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131122	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131123	Yes, I would say that the government for which I have been Prime Minister has worked tirelessly on this matter. But it is a complex matter, and there are two parties there are Denmark-Greenland, and there is the United States. And there's been a series of court cases. As I am told, there were high-level meetings in the United States in December and there is agreement that clarification should be sought as soon as possible. But at that time it was also made clear from the American side that the new administration in Washington had to be in place, and that is why the agreement or the outcome of the meetings was that meetings should be resumed as soon as possible thereafter, and we will continue to press for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131220	Following this, I think it would be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's comment on whether we expect to be able to negotiate something before Exelis Services takes over. However, I would also like to refer to an article in the December 2016 Politiken which states that the Prime Minister has personally blocked the acquisition of Grøndal by a Chinese investor. After all, the government has put Grøndal in tender or invited various private investors to report their interest. We would like to see this full environmental clean-up before, and fortunately the government has promised to do so, but we are in a situation where the current conciliation group has taken a decision that the Green Valley should be re-established. It is without Greenland's participation in this conciliation circle, and I know that you typically do not let anyone into a current conciliation circle, but I would like to see both Naalaksuisut, the municipality in question and we as Greenlandic MPs also involved in some of these decisions. So that's why it's a call from here. And I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on why they choose to reject this request. What is the reason for this? We, as Greenlandic MPs, have not heard anything about it until we hear about it in the press. And does the Prime Minister disagree with you that Greenlandic MPs, Greenlandic political representatives, must of course be heard and involved when it comes to Greenland, among other things. in the forthcoming conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131401	Thank you. Now I understand that there is some newspaper article that is the premise for the issue here. You can't just take that as a basis. I am aware that a question has been put to the Minister for Defence on the basis of the decision taken to continue using Green Valley for military purposes, and I should like to refer to that answer. After all, it is a positive decision to continue to use the Green Valley, and that also means that the Green Valley will not be completely dismantled. This does not detract from the fact that some of the environmental aspects associated with the Green Valley must, of course, be dealt with, and that is also the intention of the government. There, of course, we will naturally be in a dialogue with the Greenlandic authorities, which is why this topic was one of several subjects I had the opportunity to discuss with Kim Kielsen recently. Because we are fully aware of the fact that we have to do this, and I would have liked to have said such partial clean-up where the Green Valley should not continue to be used for the purpose which has been decided and which has naturally been turned in the circle of defence reconciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131509	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next question is by Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who is outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131524	Thank you very much. The Kingdom is changing politically. Greenland has started its constitutional work, established a Commission for Reconciliation, and the government now has a Minister of Independence and it is all with the agreement of the majority, Inatsisartut. The latest poll says over 80%. of the population want secession from Denmark. When I hear the Prime Minister speak, I often hear tones and words about the strengthening of the Kingdom Community, and that the Kingdom Community is unique and must be preserved. What does the Prime Minister say when Greenland says otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131613	Well, if Greenland authoritatively says otherwise, then we have to take a look at it. I am quite aware that there is constitutional work going on, but as far as I am aware, it is taking place within the framework of the Kingdom community we know and if it turns out to be different, there is a new situation. I would just like to repeat what I have said many times before: the Community of the Kingdom rests on the ambition of the three countries to be involved and to develop it, and if there is a country, for example. Greenland, which wants independence, then I am not the one who wants to stand in the way of it. I am very sorry, but I am not going to stand in the way of it. I must also say that until such a decision is made, it is both my job, I think, and also my intention to work to develop the cooperation we have between the three parts of the Kingdom Community: Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131724	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131727	The Americans' presence in Greenland is based on Denmark's defence agreement with the Americans. Greenland has always wanted it to be a good thing for the people of Greenland too. However, we cannot point to so many good and positive results from that agreement, unfortunately. But there is the Pituffik service contract and it has a very important economic significance for Greenland. Soon, before 1 April, a decision will have to be taken and, as the Prime Minister knows, it is a matter of great political and economic importance for Greenland and not least for Denmark. It is a contract that is of great importance for Danish and Greenlandic cooperation on a given matter. Can the Prime Minister tell me what is expected as a possible outcome in the negotiations, or does the Prime Minister think that the game is lost for both parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131825	No, I don't think any game is lost to the parties. As I have just replied to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, the Danish side is working to resolve this matter. As the honourable Member knows, there have been a number of legal cases and I am aware that they have been clarified so far that negotiations can now resume. This has waited for the new American administration. From the Danish-Greenland side, we have pressed for these discussions to start as soon as possible thereafter and have well signalled March as an opportunity, and it will be our ambition to push for it to find as favourable a solution as possible, also seen from Greenland's point of view. Because we are very aware that the service contract has had, and hopefully must continue to have a great and positive impact on Greenland's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131131928	Thank you for your answer. Last week I attended an Arctic conference in Tromsø in something called Arctic Frontiers, a very exciting conference where there was participation from all over the world and where we discussed only Arctic issues, and in this context the Minister for Gender Equality and Nordic Cooperation, Karen Ellemann, spoke. She talked about the importance of investing in the Arctic areas and the Arctic regions based on premises that come from the people of the Arctic themselves. When the Minister talks about investment, does this mean that the Danish Government is thinking of establishing contact with the Greenlandic Government in order to invest in projects that both countries, both Greenland and Denmark, can benefit from in the future, and which are also one of the points of the future Greenlandic economic development based on raw materials?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132025	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132027	The first question was what I find it difficult to fully recognise from the Greenlandic debate that there should only be a massive majority that has already decided to separate from Denmark, and it was questioned why I then go and talk about strengthening the Kingdom Community. The last question then arises as to whether we can say that Denmark will commit us further to investment in Greenland. I would like to say to you that it is also to some extent based on Greenland itself. With full respect for all the areas that have been taken home and the ever-increasing responsibility that Greenland takes for itself, that is where the initiatives must be taken. We want to support Greenland's autonomy to the maximum advisory etc., also in relation to the ambitious ideas of infrastructure investment and other things, to assess whether there is financial capacity, what these business cases look like, etc., and I have also observed what is in the political framework of building funds and other things. But a real discussion of these matters is based on Greenland's approach to Denmark. So this will not really happen on Danish initiative in respect of the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132142	Thank you. The question is closed. The next one is sir. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132156	Thank you for that and hello. Does the Prime Minister see the need to counter the desire to adopt a more pragmatic and flexible approach to the handling of foreign policy and trade policy interests by the Faroe Islands and Greenland, rather than the very restrictive and narrow interpretation that has been given on the basis of a constitution given in 1849 and last amended in 1953? That is my main question. That's what I'm asking, among other things. Because the real political scene has changed tremendously since the constitution was given. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have been given legislative power. Denmark chose to join the EU at the time, and the Faroe Islands, for example, chose to join the EU. to stand outside. After all, the government's accession to the European Union meant that you must follow the decisions of the European Community in many contexts in many matters, and there is a risk that Denmark will also come into conflict between the interests of the European Community and the interests of the Kingdom Community, which are not always the same at all. We know it from the mackerel dispute in 2013 and 2014, which ended with Denmark boycotting the Faroe Islands. Another example is the CETA agreement which has now been concluded with Canada and which gives Canadians much better access to the sale of fish products, for example. on the Danish market, no matter what. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have. In addition to that, however, the CETA Agreement has also ensured that Danish ships have the very best access to Canadian ports, while Canada maintains a de facto closure of its ports for ships from what is called Denmark as regards the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This has been done since 2010 and is still being done away with. Then you must also take it here with the Nordic Council, where we were actually denied, what to say, admission as part of the Nordic countries, based on the fact that the constitution prevents the Faroe Islands from participating in it. So, Anker Jørgensen made the same request a few decades ago: Was he against the Constitution at that time? I'd like to know. I am very concerned on behalf of the Faroe Islands, because I do not think Denmark is able to adequately defend the interests of the Faroe Islands, unfortunately. President Yes, please!). That is why I think we should find a greater scope for foreign policy, and I would like to hear your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132416	You don't talk directly to the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132419	Thank you. I am basically a pragmatic person, but it does not give me the right to make such a free interpretation of the constitution. I am quite clear that everyone is allowed to think what they want, whether the basic law is therefore attitude-wise, politically everyone also has the legal basis to make their contribution to the interpretation of the Constitution. But it is thus the case that the authoritative interpretation of the Constitution in relation to government and parliament takes place in the Ministry of Justice. Of course, within the framework of the constitution we have, I would like to find practical solutions. This has been my approach all the way through. This is also why we have opened the way for cooperation, which means that the Faroe Islands are represented independently at a number of Danish embassies in the world. That is also why I intend to put the whole question of practical cooperation on the agenda for the Kingdom meeting later this year, following on from the meeting I had with the President-in-Office, on the agenda for the Kingdom meeting later this year, I think it is June, probably on Bornholm. So, within the framework of the constitution we have, I think that we should look at how to solve challenges for the common good and how to make a cooperation that will also enable us to identify and analyse potential conflicts of interest in good time, because I admit that there can be, and the mackerel case is an example of this so that we can act wisely, from both Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese sides. But this pragmatism is not enough for me to be able to expand the limits of the constitution unilaterally, as it were. If we had done so in 2001, for example, we would have had to do so in 2001. a number of Danes living abroad who wanted to have the right to vote today, because that is how we met at the time of the takeover of the government in 2001, that is to say with that ambition, and we were then cut off from that when state law experts said where the boundaries of the Danish constitution are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132625	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132626	Perhaps I should note that the Danish constitution is not very long; it is of 4,000 words, and it is written with some broad brushes back in 1849. It is considered to be a kind of freedom document for the Danish people and also becomes what should you say celebrated as such on 5 June. But in two respects it is always interpreted restrictively, and that is when it comes to the rights of the Faroe Islands and Greenland and the scope to act in their own interests in the international space. On the question of who is authoritative in deciding how to interpret the Constitution, I am not sure that it is the Ministry of Justice alone that has that power, if I may say so, because there is not just one truth in this. There are, of course, legal expertise in constitutional law in Denmark, which totally contradicts the interpretation given by the Ministry of Justice in the notes given to the takeover law in 2005; for example, you can take. Ole Spiermann, Max Sørensen and Frederik Harhoff. And we can continue to take different legal, what to say, capacities that look at it differently. The reality is that when the Home Rule Act was implemented, it was the result of a political reality. One had to find a way to exist together, regardless of what the Constitution said, for most people were actually opposed to the Faroe Islands having legislative power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132749	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132751	I always think you should be careful about politicizing law or really hiding your politics in law. I think we should talk about things honestly. I know that the questioner belongs to Tjóðveldi and has a fundamentally different view of the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands than I do. It's an honest case. Then you have to take that discussion and then you have to promote the idea of self-government. And if you want to vote out of Denmark, you have to take steps to do so. But until you have convinced the Faroese people, you have to respect the Constitution, just as I do. I just have to repeat that the legal advice on which the government relies in its constitutional interpretation is that of the Ministry of Justice, and that has been the case for all time. I do not recognize the picture that there should be two particularly restrictive interpretations. In other words, I have just given a fully self-experienced example of a constitutional interpretation which tense a political ambition that I myself had in 2001, namely to give more Danes living abroad the right to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131132857	I do not contradict the fact that there can be no other case, but it is quite clear that when it comes to the Faroese and Greenlandic interests, they are interpreted very strictly. I am actually trying to meet the interests that I believe both Denmark and the Faroe Islands have by discussing the possibilities of making a less restrictive way of looking at foreign policy matters until we have reached where I have got full agreement in the Faroe Islands to become an independent country. Because it is still a matter of defending our welfare, and we must do so, among other things. We must do this through our foreign policy capabilities, that is to say, defend our interests. By the way, I would like to say that the Prime Minister's mother-in-law was in a radio interview on the Faroe Islands on Friday saying that she did not discuss politics with her son-in-law. I find that regrettable, because she is a very wise woman, and I would recommend that the Prime Minister speak more politics with her mother-in-law in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133003	Thank you. I take that down as an invitation and not as a question. However, I agree that practical solutions have to be found. That is also the Danish approach. This is true, for example. also in relation to what was asked about the Nordic Council, where the Danish government supports the Faroe Islands to play a stronger role. And I also think that once in a while you have to step back half a step and say: what is rational and what is emotional? Because if we're going to have this pragmatic approach, it's gonna be true for both sides; then it should be both a Faroese and a Danish approach to things. I believe, in fact, that, in order to use the words of the author of the question, a restrictive framework, which the Basic Law may thus provide, can also find practical solutions to ensure that Faroese interests are also taken care of, both, you might say, Faroese political interests, but indeed also business policy interests. At least that is my approach to the cooperation that we have within the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133117	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133124	Thank you. For many years Denmark has recognised the United States as the leader of the free world. When it comes to security policy, Denmark has followed and supported the United States more than other countries, and if we disregard the fatal invasion of Iraq in 2003, I think it has been right, and I myself have supported that course here in the Assembly. But military leadership requires value leadership, that is, that we share and fight for the same values. Our most important value is freedom of speech and the press. The United States has always been a scandal when it comes to freedom of the press in the world, but now we have a president in the United States who openly says he hates the free press. Another important value is freedom of religion, and when Denmark has fought with the United States in the war against terror, it has been absolutely crucial that the war has not been and has not been brought forward as a war against a religion. A clear distinction has been made between Islamist terror and Islam as a religion. But now we have a president in the United States who has openly declared a kind of war against just one religion. The counsellors say that the reason for the entry ban that has been introduced now in the United States was that they were told to find a legal way to implement the Muslim ban that Trump spoke about in the election campaign • a clear violation of religious freedom. Public opinion is like the stock prices, it is bipolar, and that is why, of course, I do not expect the Prime Minister to become part of the hysteria that has hit all the cities in the world since Trump was introduced, but we do not overlook the fact that there has been a slip of value in Washington, so that the US Government and the Danish government do not share the same principles and values as before. How will this affect Denmark's defence and security policy? Could it be that Denmark will not follow the United States as much as before?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133331	These are very big questions that it might be very interesting to have a longer conversation about, because if all the nuances are to be presented, it may not be within 1 minute and 47 seconds. I think it is important to understand that at all times a country is more than a president to say one thing. There has been a new administration in the United States, and it is quite obvious that we also mentioned it in the last Question Time that it seems different from what we have seen before. The entire administration is not in place, and on some points there are still working ministers who are faced with the old administration. It is to be seen that there are considerable nuances between the signals that can be immediately read from the newly elected President in very short text messages and the somewhat longer answers given by some of the people who are supposed to be ministers in also central positions of Foreign Minister, Secretary of Defense at congress hearings. That's why my approach to this is that the United States is Denmark's closest ally. We must do everything in our power to have the best possible relations; we must base all the commitment that has been given, for example. In NATO too, when questions are asked in defence, about the musketeen nest and other things, it says so there. This is my starting point in the meeting with the new American administration. Then I can also see that there will be cases where we will look at it differently. That is, for example, the case. Clearly, on the whole question of the position of women and girls, sexual rights, the issue of reproduction, in relation to development aid, there will be considerable nuances, to put it diplomatically. We have now seen this historically, and Denmark must, of course, know its place and work for the values that are ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133555	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister is very cautious in his statements, and I understand that. I myself believe that the change in value that has taken place in the United States is extremely unfortunate, and I also believe that not only for ideological reasons can it have concrete consequences. After all, the decisive group in the fight against Islamist terror is the moderate Muslims, not least those who live in the West. If they take Western values into account, then the West wins, but if the radical groups get through with the tale that what it is all about is the West against Islam, then the West loses. That's exactly the story that Trump is now bassing. It's water on the terrorists' mill. It will be easier for them to recruit new members, and now they can say to moderate, law-abiding Muslims: Look, the West hates you. For example, in the last few days many Western leaders have strongly opposed Donald Trump's policy, but the Prime Minister has not done so until now, he has been very cautious. That is why I want to ask more directly: rhetoric is also politics, and does the Prime Minister see any danger in the rhetoric now being applied in the White House, and is that something he wants to take a clear stand against?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133710	After all, it is not just me who draws the government, so is the government's Foreign Minister, and the Foreign Minister was out this weekend with a fairly clear message and questioned the wisdom of the decision taken in the United States. It is important to say that each country must therefore legitimately have control over itself and its own borders. It is also important to say that it is a legitimate interest to protect your own country from terrorism, but it must also be said that, in my view, the instrument which has apparently been chosen, in which, regardless of all other circumstances, people are excluded from entry only by virtue of their nationality, is a very imprecise instrument in relation to the objective that is apparently to be achieved, namely to scan themselves against terrorism. That's what the government announced this weekend. Now I know that the President is standing up and I am sorry, but I suspect that this issue will come back in various variations during today, so I have to say that in a situation where many people are responding to what has been called the Twitter policy, in other words that politics is expressed in very short, bassant sentences, where all the nuances underneath disappear, and where, therefore, we still have good things to do, even though we are actually working through our own diplomacy on it, to understand the full scope of the decisions taken in the United States, I think we should also be careful not to go to the other camp of the Twitter policy, where we are just as brief and just as unmantically giving re-answers. That will certainly not be my approach to the new American administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131133915	Thank you. I fully agree with that and that is why I mentioned it with bipolar depression, because it is going very up and down, and it is doing nothing. There is no doubt that it is legitimate, or probably legitimate, and it is entirely legitimate that one should protect one's interests and borders, and this has been done before, because it has also stopped immigration from Iraq before. But what I was thinking is that rhetoric is also politics and that it is also a value in itself, a political act in itself, that is to say what we are saying. Finally, I have a very practical question. It is the case that Danish citizens are probably also affected by the new entry ban to the United States, for example. Doubtful about a member of this tall thing, sir. Naser Khader can enter the United States now. Britain, I understand, is now trying to get an agreement that allows those of their citizens who were born in one of these seven countries to enter the United States anyway. Will the government try to get such an agreement also for Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134012	It is the Foreign Minister's responsibility, and I shall refer to him in detail, but we are working intensively to understand the scope of the decisions that have been taken and to the extent that they affect, of course, also to mitigate the consequences of them. There has been a lot of information over the last few days about what agreements have been reached and others have questioned them, and I also believe that it must be said quite openly that when we make policies in the way we have witnessed, in other words by decree, perhaps a little unanchored in the administration, it can also be the case that the country in which we make politics does not in all parts of the administration have the same understanding of what the scope of it is. That is why we are devoting a great deal of effort to uncovering what has actually been decided and to the extent that it has consequences to mitigate. Our approach is, of course, that if you are a Danish citizen, you are a Danish citizen, and that is whatever your original birthplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134126	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134137	Thank you. I would actually like to return to the question time we had a few weeks ago in this Chamber. For Mrs Pernille Skipper at one point asked the Prime Minister a question about inequality. I do not remember the exact wording, but I think it was about whether the Prime Minister did not think that increasing inequality was a problem. That's how I remember it. The Prime Minister's reply actually surprised me, because the Prime Minister said, and here, in return, I quote verbatim: Denmark is not in a situation where we have an inequality problem as such. I know that there are great ideological differences between the parties here in the Danish Parliament and that there are variations between the parties in relation to how much emphasis we attach to equal opportunities, that differences are not too great, that we do not run apart and that cohesion is great. I must be honest and say that I really thought that rejecting inequality as a problem was something that was a matter for the Liberal Alliance and for the New Citizens. And I was surprised that a Prime Minister from the Left was so categorically refusing to speak inequality. That is why I think we should have a round more about it, and I think that, of course, especially because I myself represent a party in which we have had a very, very basic belief for many years that what makes Denmark strong is that we have a strong social contract with each other, that we have strong private companies that can grow and develop, but that at the same time we have the courage to regulate and also dare to redistribute, so that any progress comes to the benefit of the broad group of Danes. The social contract is under attack, and I have to say that apart from the fact that the government is constantly changing its plans and yet does not want to implement what it wanted to do a few hours ago, there is something that strikes me anyway. And that is that, whether we are talking about top tax relief, later withdrawal or what we have heard recently from the government, namely that people with general income in ordinary parcel houses should finance, that the few who live in very, very expensive properties in Denmark should have a tax relief, then these are all examples of a government that unfortunately begins to renounce the social contract, which I think is perhaps the main explanation that we have today as strong a society as is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134403	Or maybe it's an example of someone leaving early in the election campaign. And that may also be the reason why you find it so difficult to remember what you stood for yourself when you were in government recently. Because if you have come to the mental conclusion that there is a choice right around the corner, then it has at least been almost four years since you were in government offices. I have noticed how what I said in the last Question Time has been cut together and used in the Social Democratic propaganda machine. This is exactly the same as with the author's colleague, the MP, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, who bikes around with a social democratic sanctioned video that creates the impression that his personal retirement age depends on decisions that the government is planning to make, although it one more consequence of a welfare agreement that Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself helped to make in 2006. I fight so hard to create equal opportunities. Later this year, when the government starts a partnership between employers and employees on the labour market of the future, it is among other things. in view of the fact that the global development we are in the middle of now is going to challenge us. And one of the things that will eventually be challenged, one might say, the economic equality measured by the Gini coefficient, is the question of whether we can get all Danes to seize the opportunities, in other words to get them to train themselves, to create the skills that make it possible to engage in the labour market and get a job that pays itself so that you can get on with the development. I am very concerned that this is a success. When we want to set aside 1⁄2 billion. kr. It is the same reflection that is behind this report that is being given to the most vulnerable primary schools in the year, that is to say those who are least able to give our children a backlash into life. What I was trying to do in the last question hour with the Prime Minister was to nuance this discussion about the Gini coefficient. Because that is for example. so that when, over the last generation, we have got more young people to take an education, it means that the young people in that part of their lives have a lower income than they would have had if they had not taken an education but went straight out and took an unskilled job. It's negative on the Gini coefficient, but it's not a problem. The fact that young people get an education is to support a society of opportunities, to mention just one place where this discussion about equality in Gini is too unmanageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134619	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134621	But with all due respect, the Prime Minister is a little out of the question. I didn't mention the Gini coefficient in a word. If the Prime Minister asks me, I do not think that this is the only way to establish equality or inequality, or perhaps hardly the most interesting way to discuss it. What I question is why, by virtue of his actions, the Prime Minister is not because there are many of them; and those who are then may become all the more conspicuous in reality, Denmark is pulling further away from the foundation on which we have managed to build a strong society, in fact across the Folketing. It is not to respect the social contract when, for example, the Prime Minister wants those who have the hardest jobs that have contributed, who have done theirs, those who came first in the labour market and have the hardest working environment, to still have to work more to afford tax relief. It's actually doing the opposite. And when there is a housing tax system in Denmark, which I hope we will be able to make a broad agreement on; that is still my hope, and that is also the approach we are taking to the negotiations with the Danish Government, which is based on the fact that, of course, there must be a tax on housing, but that it must also be fair, why does the Prime Minister really question it? This is something new, by the way, because until a short time ago, the Prime Minister actually thought it was a good idea to move forward in our housing tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134745	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134746	I am extremely pleased that Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not think that this debate is about economic equality versus economic inequality. That is also why I am reacting a little bit to the fact that one takes a sentence based on the latest Question Time, which was about economic equality and inequality, and leads down here in the Chamber to use it as such a kind of proof of truth that the government is completely indifferent to creating equal opportunities, so thank you for that concession. We are thus vividly concerned about creating a society of opportunities. We are also doing so on the basis that Denmark is one of the most equal societies, that is to say, in Gini, in the OECD, and I also attach importance to the fact that economic differences do not become too great. I think that some of what creates cohesion in Denmark is that we are, as it were, at eye level with each other, but that is not the only consideration. Another consideration is that we will have an increased level of prosperity, in other words that we will collectively become richer. And when, for example, the government... think about running the welfare agreement we made 11 years ago more quickly, because we live significantly longer, two and a half years longer than was foreseen when we made the agreement, so it is related to the fact that it might otherwise be difficult to provide the resources needed to invest the future in our society. And here I am not specifically talking about taxes, I am talking about infrastructure, research, education; everything that will eventually make Denmark richer and better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134925	I would ask you to keep to your speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131134927	Yeah, and it's short. When I am engaged in the social contract, it is not only from the point of view of justice. I have to admit that this is what drives me, and I am also a socialist. But it's not just that. It's actually because it's turned out to work. After all, we have a strong business community, while at the same time we have regulation. We have a strong business environment, while we have the tax system we have for many years. Perhaps I would just like to say at the end, because it will soon be a slightly more harsh political discussion when the Prime Minister answers, as the Prime Minister does, that, in this context, we want to reach a broad agreement on housing taxation, and it must of course be fair. Then it might be that the Prime Minister would finally reply quite briefly to my last question, and that is: let us say that one is basing one's economic policy on top tax reliefs, later withdrawal and a flat tax on the housing tax • and I am starting from what is well known, and I understand that there will not be a new 2025 plan. So let's take the three components, which are probably the most well known. Will this lead us to unite as a country, to reduce inequality and to strengthen cohesion? Or will the three things put together really make the differences greater? The latter can actually be answered quite simply 'yes' or 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135052	Thank you. Well, there's gonna be a new 2025 plan. It will be presented later in the spring • completely like a 2010 plan, a 2015 plan and a 2020 plan • drawing a perspective for the Danish economy up to 2025. And it will show what we have to do well to meet the ambitions that I believe we have collectively along the way, to invest more in infrastructure, to future-proof Denmark for a digitization agenda, etc., and how much more we can create if we dare to adjust some things. It gives a completely misrepresented picture to say that this government's policy is based on the three things that were mentioned. It's totally out of line. This government's policy is based on much more than that: to give the municipalities greater freedom to plan, to give our professions a better framework, to settle with what is so threatening our cohesion, namely that we are now up to 88 per cent. of all cash benefits couples have a different ethnic, non-western background or descendants of them. This is among other things. That is why we want to introduce a ceiling on cash aid, a 225-hour rule and everything that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is opposed to and maybe/may not roll back if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is given power, as has been said, but which, in fact, is intended to promote what Mrs Mette Frederiksen talked about so well about, namely a Denmark which is linked, where everyone contributes and where no specific groups are set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135218	Thank you. The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135226	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. I think it was mostly about negotiations on a housing tax system. We look forward to this, of course, even where the Left is now in a different position, because you are in the lead of an enlarged government than you had when you had government with yourself. So we're gonna have to take some armorings over that. We hope, of course, that we can find each other and get a good deal that creates security for the property owners. Of course, security is also the fact that we know what conditions will apply in the future, and we look forward to negotiations on this. Oh. What I want to start from is that yesterday I took my car and drove down to the border because I wanted to go down and see how our brave people down there handle border controls. It is some super dedicated people who stand down there, who take care of Denmark's interests, fit in with Denmark, so I think the Prime Minister can remember it was expressed and keep an eye on who comes into our country. You can have some views on their working conditions because it has to be a temporary check: they are standing out in pouring rain hour after hour and checking who comes into the country. It deserves praise, it deserves recognition, and I think that is at least an important thing to take home from such a visit to the border yesterday. But what then strikes me, in that there is this temporary nature of border controls, is that the EU government is struggling to extend border controls by another three months, that is, from February to May. And I would really like to ask the Prime Minister what the background is for us to be satisfied with an extension of border controls of three months. The arguments used by the government itself for border controls and which I fully agree with and think are correct arguments to use: a high entry rate in southern Europe and a time of real terrorist threat are, after all, about things which, unfortunately, we must assume will also apply in three months from now, in other words from May. So can the Prime Minister not explain to the Danish Parliament why it is really satisfied with an extension of three months? Hasn't the time come for Denmark to adopt this position and fight in the EU for countries to decide for themselves whether they have border controls at internal borders or not, and at what level, if you want to have border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135446	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135448	Thank you. Perhaps we can express this in the way that we operate temporary border controls for three months at a time, and in the past for a longer period. And we do, of course, in the light of the fact that this is a legally regulated area. I know that we do not agree on yes, we probably agree that it is a legally regulated area, but we probably do not agree on Denmark's association with Schengen. We have Schengen cooperation and it is fully regulated in law. This does not prevent border controls if certain conditions are met and there is then a very precise set of rules on how to deal with it. And what is the policy of the government, which is also known in our neighbouring countries, in Europe and in the Commission, is that as long as the external borders of the European Union are not under control, we have temporary border controls. As long as we consider that there is an extraordinary terrorist threat to Denmark, we have temporary border controls for that long. That the technique behind it means that it has to be reported out several times a year, then we live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135600	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135601	Of course, this is not a very practical way of dealing with it, because it also has something to do with what kind of control you can have and what it costs, etc. It is, of course, much more effective to have permanent border controls. But what is my business here is really just to ask the Prime Minister: when the government's position is that Denmark has border controls, as long as it is necessary to have border controls... that has been made clear here a few days ago... how can it be in the hands of a Greek Commissioner, for example, how long can we have border controls? In other words, where I think there is a discrepancy is not that the government is fighting for an extension of border controls and so on, because of course I agree with that, but one must take a position if one has the policy that it is Denmark itself that has to decide whether we have border controls. How can one take the view that it is the European Union and the European Commission that must propose to the Council and that it should be approved by the Council if we are allowed to extend border controls, if we also believe that Denmark has border controls for as long as border controls are necessary? I can quote another quote: until the external borders of Europe are in place, it is essential for us to have an extension of border controls. Then you have to fight for it to be a decision that we can make ourselves here in Denmark. That is the position on which I would like to challenge the Prime Minister. Is it not the position that one should take that when one discusses the future of border controls in the EU circle, Denmark is fighting for a national decision whether or not one needs border controls? It could be that there are other countries, that is, there are elections in France, and there are later this year elections in Germany etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135738	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135739	In other words, our political starting point is what I have explained, namely that we must have control at the Danish border when the conditions for not having it are not there. When we look at it a little differently, perhaps it is because we basically look a little differently at what is behind it, that is, what was the starting point, namely the freedom of movement, which the government still believes is basically a force. That is why we do not enjoy border controls, and that is why we have a different starting point. It's kind of out of need. The fact that we are tying resources at the border which, if we did not have that problem, could have been used elsewhere to fight crime around or could have been put into Vollsmose to fight gangs, or whatever it might be, is driven by the fact that there are some preconditions for not having border controls that are not present. And we will fight for them again, that is to say, the prerequisites. That is why, at this Valletta meeting scheduled for Friday, we will repeat, among other things. the need for the European Union to get its external borders under control, for partnership to be built up in Africa, just as it has now been done with Turkey, where the Western Balkans route was under control, because we would like to go where we do not need border controls. And since this is our overall ambition, I believe that Denmark is best placed to respect the Schengen acquis, especially as long as the rules have not proved to be in practice conflicting with what we are otherwise agreed on, that is, the Danish People's Party and the government, that at least in the current situation with the current threat picture and with the current lack of control at the external borders, we must have border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131135926	But with the argument that the government itself has for border controls, it just makes no sense to extend by three months at a time. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that when the three months have passed, there is a new situation where there is no need for border controls. I fully agree with the Government's argument that we should, of course, have extended border controls, and if you look at the costs, it's crazy to do it with these three-month intervals. Well, I think a statement has been made which shows that to get 37 hours of work at the border it costs 57 hours, because today we hire a cop in Thisted and then tell the cop: Now, by the way, you have to leave your family and stand guard down at the Danish-German border, at Kruså for example. Of course, it costs some extra money compared to having an employee in Kruså to carry out border controls. So if you look at the cost, it's to do it for three months at a time... it's a weird way to do it. There is also freedom of movement, even if you control people. So there is free movement on the Danish-German border. It is true that we are slowing down, that there are some policemen and some homeguards who have the opportunity to look at people, but that is not the same as the fact that there is no freedom of movement. In relation to the United States, we are discussing new decrees and the like, and this is a completely different kind of restriction on free movement. But it is not a question of the fact that, because there is border controls at the entrance to the United States, there is no right to enter. It's a few other things that make it up to you. I know, of course, the fundamental disagreement, so my call to the Prime Minister here in the end must be to think about the coherence of his policy. If you think there are such strong arguments as I agree that there are, in relation to the fact that we still have to have control, why only settle for three months at a time? Why not fight to get national self-determination in place, so it is here in the Folketing that we decide whether there will be border controls for our neighbouring countries in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140113	Thank you. It's gonna be a little repetitive. So, there is the rulebook that exists, and should we now use our political capital and our political energy to challenge that rulebook, or should we use our political capital and our political energy to solve some problems? We choose to do the last thing. And the great fundamental problem that has been and is still there, but which was more clearly there a year ago, is that there has not been sufficient consensus across Europe and the institutions about the prerequisites for this fantastic Europe of free access and free trade between our businesses and our citizens, namely that we must manage things, that is, outside the external borders. That consensus has not been there in the internship, and that is what we are using our energy to drive forward. It must be said that we have succeeded so far that today we have such low entry figures to Denmark that we have probably not seen since I was Prime Minister at least last, and we must continue along that path. You can have different assessments of that, i.e. where to put your energy. I have the pragmatic view that this Schengen tool we have allows us in Denmark to have temporary border controls in the situation in which Denmark finds itself. We have, and I would like to make the political commitment, that as long as we have that situation, we also have temporary border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140242	Thank you. Then the next Mrs. Pernille Skipper is Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140250	Thank you. I would very much like to return to some of what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also talked about earlier, which is a subject I think is recording very, very many Danes. It is Donald Trump, who, as President of the United States, has made some very big attacks on fundamental values over the course of one and a half weeks, and I believe that many Danes are concerned about that. I think we are, because it affects the international community, it affects the international legal order of which Denmark is a part, but it also affects Denmark, because, to put it mildly, we tend to conduct such a kind of copy-paste policy from Washington very often. That was among other things. a policy we saw last week in which the government proposed to send out a Danish frigate to protect an American carrier with the stated aim of investing significantly in defence cooperation with the United States, in other words to send out a signal that you are with all the way, at any cost. And I guess that's a signal you send in a time to Donald Trump, who's been shaking us all as American president, I guess. We have heard him say that he believes that torture works and should be reinstated, that nationals of a number of countries are being denied entry to the United States, that Syrian refugees will be denied entry and asylum, that all American aid to organizations working in family planning and abortion will cease, regardless of the fact that it will be a disaster and cost, as the Prime Minister himself says, in relation to women's reproductive rights • and that for children around the world it is so central to development aid. Therefore, in Enhedslisten, we would like to have an urgent request so that we can send a different signal from the one sent last week from Denmark about these actions. We really want to hear what the Prime Minister is going to do. Are we going to adjust, lie down, or are we going to start to conduct a more independent foreign policy, where we are also sending very clear signals to our so-called close allies about what we think is a good idea and what is not a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140514	But if Enhedslisten wants to ask a question, it depends on what the other parties of the Danish Parliament want in this respect, and then there will probably be a debate if there is a broad wish, and then you can take the debate there. It may also be better suited to a different questioning regime than that twice a half. Because I think we should be careful that we do not here, in other words a few weeks after a change of administration in the United States, on the basis of temporary regulation and other things, where we still have good reason to see what the depth of this is, what it is for a cabinet that gathers together, what it is for a long-term policy that I had almost said over a night shifts from the focus that we have the closest allies in the United States, to the fact that we now have to condemn almost everything. I can easily see where there are major differences, including in terms of value, with this administration. I can also see that historically, without making it customary, in every situation where an American decision has been made, to stand and weigh it off in the Danish Parliament. Guantánamo and other things could be mentioned. I can put it in that way that our government wants to pursue Danish values in our foreign policy. This is true, for example. also in the theme which was just estimated here about the position of women and girls. How does this fit into our development aid? I can easily see that if someone withdraws from the international agenda, whether it be the Vatican City or the United States, it can have an impact on our forward-looking priorities and how we prioritise our resources. It does not shy away from the fact that in the very big agenda, in other words, who is to ensure peace, freedom, stability in the world, who is to build up our defence alliances, the United States remains our closest ally, and this must not be shaken by what we have seen, although I admit that we have seen something which, in my own eyes too, seems somewhat different from what we have seen before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140756	That's what we were waiting for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140801	It is hard to disagree that it is somewhat different from what we have seen before. I think it is an extremely strange signal to send to Donald Trump when the whole world stands back in the moon and looks at what has been going on in one and a half weeks too. Then we choose to send a signal with a frigate that no one has asked for to improve relations with the American military. After all, there is a difference between jumping to conclusions and sending wrong signals. But I would like to come back to what the Prime Minister is opening up a little bit here, and that is, of course, that, in addition to saying things, we can also do some very concrete things, such as. to support the Dutch Minister for Development, who has announced that a fund will be created to close the gap following the support for development aid which may be taken away by the Americans whose organisations work on family planning and abortion. According to the Dutch, 15 to 20 countries have already announced that they would support such a fund. Has Denmark been asked whether we want to join, and do I hear the Prime Minister say that Denmark will join if we are asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131140937	The penultimate question, whether there is a specific question in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I cannot actually regret very much the answer to. This question must be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The priorities of our development aid are quite clear and have among other things. In relation to the new world objectives, it aims to promote women's participation and, moreover, also to combat, what can be said, overpopulation and other women's rights to their own sexual life and their own reproduction. And the specific priority of how much money we then spend is also a reflection of what the rest of the world is doing. It is clear that if the rest of the world changes its priorities so that it leaves a greater need here, then of course we must look very openly at whether this is something we can prioritise within the framework we have. Then I'm gonna have to arrest the frigate. So let us just keep the proportions in place: we are participating in a coalition to combat ISIL, the most evil terrorist regime we have seen for many, many years. It has also been in preparation under the former American administration. Does the Enhedslisten really think that we should put the issue of Danish participation in the fight against ISIL into some symbolic discussion, in relation to a newly elected American president, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141101	I am now familiar with the Enhedslisten, which has been advocating for years that we support the democratic forces or secular forces in Syria to a much greater extent, including weapons and increased humanitarian aid, and this has been prevented. What I challenge is when one's only reason for sending something is that it should send out a signal about defence policy... maybe it is not right now that one should send that signal. But leave it alone. I'm so happy today, and I want to stay that way. What I heard the Prime Minister say was that if the Americans decide to weaken women's rights at international level, there is indeed an opportunity for Denmark to enter into international cooperation to strengthen women's rights, including reproductive rights. I heard the Prime Minister say that, and I am happy to note it. One of the other things we can do in Denmark is, after all, to try to say nothing to the President of the United States when he speaks in positive terms about torture. In practical terms, we could, for example, do this. say that no CIA aircraft or American aircraft, potentially containing prisoners, interland here until the US President can tell the difference between something as basic as what is right and what is wrong and a free country that fights torture and other countries that do not. (Applause from the centre and the right) ) specifically say that Denmark does not hand over prisoners to the United States or anyone else who wants to hand them over to the United States. ) until the American President (President Speaking time has passed) has got his priorities in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141241	I think that the Enhedslisten is thus exalting the President of the United States to be our President so that we now obviously have to deal with everything that the President of the United States might say, think, do, think or believe. In my optics, America is a democracy; they have elected a president. I also think that when you look at this a little down in the nuance, they probably also have some decision-making structures that make it impossible for you to translate a tweet into a implemented policy. And it will certainly influence my approach to the United States, i.e. I will refuse to have to force myself to respond to every single tweet that might come out of the White House. We have an overall approach to the United States as the one I have outlined here. We can also see it when there are disagreements there has always been historical. I can also see that they seem to be getting a little bigger in a number of fields.One of them we have very soberly discussed here. Of course, we need to take a look at this, and we will do so in the future. We will do so on the basis that the United States is our closest ally and the leader of the free world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141359	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The next one is sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141410	I know the Prime Minister is a little irritated about having to discuss the current US President, but that's how it's gonna be. The last time we had Question Time, we also talked about Trump, and the Prime Minister said for good reasons, because the Prime Minister must be careful what he says, and it must be so fairly balanced that what he could at least assess with regard to the new president was that he had his very own style. So far so good. It has been two weeks since we last stood here, and then we have been blown completely back in the last week by decrees, decisions, statements and twitter comments from the very same president. I think, as Enhedslisten's representative also commented just now, that some of the things that have come from the Oval Office are remarkable. And it is not just us who say so; the international press says so, and it is good Heads of State who are colleagues to the Prime Minister, most recently Merkel. So what have we seen? The reason we are concerned is, of course, that this is a President who goes forward and creates his very own truthful understanding against facts that go against critical media and journalists, who muzzle his Ministry of the Environment and its Environment Board, which freezes all funding for current and future environmental projects, etc. etc. That is deeply worrying. And just a moment ago, the Guardian website has read that Myron Ebell, an advisor to Trump, says that the environmental movement is the greatest threat to freedom and progress and that he expects the United States to withdraw from COP21. So my first question is: exactly as far as that is concerned, what can Denmark do to keep the United States on the climate track?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141623	That was a lot of things, and then there was a question about the climate area at the end, and I must respect that too. Well, it's a well-known fact that this issue was also part of the American election campaign. Before we elevate the debate here to what should we call it the moral second chamber of American politics, one must also admit that there has been an election campaign in the United States and the whole climate issue has entered into. I am aware of the fact that the new President of the United States is not invented for this occasion to be critical of what we others have attached great value, namely the Paris Agreement. And the United States is a democracy, and if they make democratic decisions, we cannot just decide that they should not make them, just as we would be sorry if there were an American Senate and decisions on our behalf. So we need our arguments. When we talk about where Denmark is in the international debate, it can be said that there are quite a lot of places where Denmark is ■ and, by the way, also across and irrespective of what political majority there is in this Chamber. This applies to the green agenda, which concerns the agenda that I spoke to the Enhedslisten about before, that is, women's equality. We must then fight for this with all the means at our disposal, and we must also state if there are legal arguments that, if a country has signed an agreement, one must stand by one's word and that sort of thing. I do not think there is any reason to question that, and the government will of course contribute to it. The right framework to do so in addition to our own national efforts is, of course, in a European political context, in which I also hope that we will work towards making contact with the new American administration at the highest possible level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141828	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141830	In other words, when several of us raise these questions, it is of course because what is happening in the United States is not just something that has an impact on the United States' own inner lives, but is important to all of us. So when the US Government and the new president go in with the view on the climate issue that the climate movement is the biggest threat to freedom and progress, then it is not just any country that says this... it is the biggest player at all on the global stage. That is why, of course, we are deeply, deeply concerned about what is going on in the United States right now; not only democratic, but in this case also in the environmental field. It is a threat to all of us if it is the policy that will define the future for the next four years. To return to the letter sent by the Prime Minister on 20 January, where, for good reasons, the Prime Minister congratulated Trump on being now the new president, and looked forward to the cooperation and hoped that the friendship between Denmark and the United States would only grow further, I would ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister has time to listen to him if he would even write the same letter today when he knows what has happened in the last 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131141954	Yes, I would certainly, and perhaps even more forcefully, express the hope that we could have a good forward-looking relationship, because what else would be the starting point? In other words, should we congratulate the new President on the ambition to weaken our relations? I'd think that's weird. I am a little uncertain about what kind of debate we are actually having here and what kind of debate is going on in Denmark. I think we should be careful not to exalt a president to be an entire country. If we now take the climate agenda, then in Obama we had a President who used his presidential power to try to drive and that is just an analysis of the climate agenda longer than was actually justified in the parliaments. So now it looks like we've got a mirror image. But whether you judge Obama or the new president... and this is just an analysis... they don't have to be assessed alone, you could say, the president's own positions. They must also be assessed on the policy pursued by the country. It is not enough that we could sit and applaud Obama if he could not deliver, nor is it enough to sit and buhe at the new president if he cannot deliver, so just vice versa on the negative agenda what the questioner and I hope he can't. I just think that we need to have that nuance in the debate before we now develop a culture in which the Danish Government must relate in every detail to any possible announcements that may come from the US President on a daily basis. It would be a difficult standard to put down over a number of other countries. No one should be in any doubt about our priorities in foreign policy... we will pursue them. We will pursue them, no matter who is president of the White House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142150	Again, we look at it differently. But perhaps what we can agree on is what the Prime Minister also said in some of his previous answers... that it is good that we get an urgent question about this because then we can have more time for it and time to come all around; so we look forward to it. I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that the Government's Foreign Minister actually went out and said that it disagreed with the decisions taken in relation to the admission rules and with the policy that Trump apparently intends to pursue. So praise the Secretary of State and the government just in that respect. However, I can tell you now that we are going to pursue it because what is happening in the United States is not just important to the United States; it is of course important to all of us. So for the Members of the Alternative's own question to the Prime Minister in this round. That goes on the PRS tax, and it is a very cash question: why were the voters constantly informed that the EU had declared the PSO illegal when this was not true?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142301	Neither were the voters. I would like to say that when I myself entered that debate at the start, it was on the double basis, namely what is in complete agreement with the truth that the Danish PSP was problematized by the EU. Legality was called into question. And another strong argument was the Danish competitiveness. It was not something that was invented for the election campaign, because it was the same argument that I personally had when we were in opposition. That is why, on several occasions, we tried to force the previous government to reduce the PSO charges in the context of the growth package. If Detector and other programs that have uncovered this would otherwise search all their archives and not just those short bits that I think we are all exposed to, that is, where the arguments are being pulled all together, then you will find plenty of evidence for what is my claim here... in accordance with the truth... namely that we have said from the outset that there are two reasons why we should do this here: one was our competitive power, that is, that we put Danish industry back by having a tax of a type that you do not know in other countries; the other was the EU argument. About the first, I can say that I am, for example. I am pleased that Holmegaard, Næstved's second largest company, has recently been out saying that now they are reinvesting rather than what might be the fear of shutting down glass production in Næstved with direct reference to the fact that the PSP is now being phased out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142431	Thank you. And thank you both to the Prime Minister and ask. The last one is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142441	Thank you. I understand the Prime Minister was at Skills as a speaker. Then I still think I pulled the longest straw, for I attended the competition dinner and laid the body for the cooks and waiters' children's productions. And I would say that if there is an idea to keep Skills several times a year, I am also available another time. But I don't think you should put your light under a bushel, not even the Prime Minister. I have seen that a new chocolate fountain has been planned for a while, and there were some confectioners who might be able to take up the competition with a little practice. But what I want to start with is, of course, what the Prime Minister called the adjustment of the education ceiling. Tomorrow's ceiling will come into force, because tomorrow's quota 2 application will be opened, and this is the first time that Danish young people have been bumping their heads into the ceiling that still exists, although they have now tried to make a hole in their own ceiling. I understand from the Prime Minister that one has listened to the criticism, and one should of course be commended for that, and I have also understood from the Minister for Education that it should not be regarded as a mistake and I would say that there may be some courage to admit an error sometimes. But who should feel satisfied? Is it the nursing student who is now heading for his bachelor's degree and well knows that he or she wants to be a doctor and who can either decide to skip his education or wait, is it 6 years to realize the dream of becoming a doctor? Or are they the folk schools in Southern Denmark? Because we know that in teacher training at UC SYD has 15%. of the students a different education. Should they be pleased that they may be able to train teachers, but they just have to wait six years for the supply to be as they know it today? Or are these the quota 2 students who thought that now they should apply for their dream education? Because in Denmark we must be a society of opportunities, as the Prime Minister said earlier in the debate. The message for them is: You can do that, not this year, but in 2023. Why is it that when we can meet and negotiate for 32 billion? kr., which the government believes we need to find in order to provide security for the property owners, then you can't find 15 million. kr. in 2017 to give the young people who are to apply for their education tomorrow a chance to pursue their dreams just as young people could a year ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142705	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142707	Something is out of balance here, because it is obviously just a trivial matter that costs nothing, and I have to promise that it is an attack and a disaster. There's something here that's not in symmetry, and that's why there's also a wrong picture of how things are. There are plenty of opportunities to have an education and then choose to come out and teach in the Danish primary school and become a credit teacher. There are plenty of opportunities to train up in the education hierarchy... terrible words. There are plenty of opportunities to take, speaking of Skills, a vocational education and then say: On the basis of my carpenter training I will now live out my dream of becoming an architect. I would just like to say that some, among others. The questioner here has helped to draw a picture on top of the agreement reached with the Social Democracy and the Government, of the fact that now we are almost opposed to education and that no one can live out their educational dreams. It's not like that. What you cannot do is that you cannot take two higher education courses on top of each other. You can't say: Now I've become a lawyer, thanks for what the Danish community • I'd rather like to be an architect, so I'm starting from the beginning. And what we are doing here is that we fully recognise that we may have chosen the wrong path of life, that is to say, have completed an education, gained a higher education and yet, when we have tested it on the labour market, say that now we want to change paths. We shall then admit that, and a period of grace has been introduced. And it is based on the perfectly reasonable view that when we live in a society where we have the right to free, equal and free access to education, if we are otherwise qualified for the education we choose, we really owe it to ourselves and to each other to test out the education we have received before we say: by the way, I would rather have an extra one. This is, of course, the balance that the government has struck with the Social Democracy, which must also be kept up against the fact that we have been sitting on this issue in another important situation which also interested us, namely how to create a fairer benefit system. That is the case, and I regret that the Radical Left has not adhered to and has not been part of those agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142922	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131142925	Yes, there was no way to find 15 million. kr., so that young people from tomorrow, when quota 2 applications are opened, do not have to fuck their heads against the educational ceiling which appears to be a crown jewel in government education policy. I find it regrettable and I do not think the Prime Minister gave a proper answer to the nursing student who is finishing his bachelor's degree, but well know that you want to be a doctor. Should you skip and not finish your nursing education, or should you just postpone the dream to 2023? Nor do I think there was any answer to the schools in Southern Denmark. On their teacher training UC SYD is 15%. in the course of their second education. Should they wait six years to get the students in, who can then come out and become well-educated, well-motivated teachers in primary school? Then I certainly do not think that there was a very good answer to the young people who had expected them to start their dream education and, as the day before the quota 2 application is opened, they are told: you can do that anyway, but only not until 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143035	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143037	I do not actually quite understand the idea that dream education should be the number two education one chooses. It is, after all, like the premise, that we are in the process of education and then have to achieve an ambition for a dream education. In other words, it should be such for the sake of the young person himself, the young person's life, the economy, the taxpayer and future colleagues that you chose your dream education for a start. I guess that's the way it should be. Then you can choose a dream education that you want to build on top; you can easily do so. Moreover, it is also possible to choose a dream education to a large extent, such as: is vocational, and then find out that you have a dream of taking a more theoretically funded education; and then you can do so. We're not gonna turn off any dreams. What we are saying is that is also why the money is no more than it is, that if you have taken a full and full education, you owe it to yourself and to the rest of us that you, as it were, try hard with that education before you say it was a mistake and that you would rather do something quite different. Well, that's the reasonableness of what this is. So I think that a wrong picture is drawn of what opportunities you actually have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143209	Yes, it remains to be seen that while we can easily meet and negotiate security for the homeowners for 20-30 years up to a price of 32 billion. • the young people who had a dream of getting started with an education here and now for 15 million. kr., for that is not the Prime Minister's priority. In conclusion, I would like to return to the discussion on President Trump's latest decree on entry bans for certain nations based on the beliefs of the majority in those countries. There are other liberal leaders who have been somewhat clearer than what we have heard from the Prime Minister today. We could take Canada's Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, who, in response, has said: to all of you who are fleeing persecution, terror and war: the Canadians welcome you regardless of your faith. Diversity is our strength. Our own pan-European party ALDE has just, while we have been sitting here having Question Time, clearly and unequivocally urged President Trump to withdraw his decree. Wouldn't it be nice to say too much in this discussion to clear the air here at the end of Question Time and hear from the Prime Minister, clearly, that the Danish government, which has said that this is an unfair policy, is also calling on President Trump to withdraw his decree?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143332	We're still in the middle of Question Time, so there's got to be quiet in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143337	Words can be interpreted in many ways. I mean, when, for example... If you are referring to the Canadian Prime Minister, I think it is just quite quiet to say that the words do not seem enough for everyone who has been persecuted to be welcome in Canada. That's not the picture I have. I have a picture that you have quotas, how many you have room for, and that with that you go out into the world and handpick those you want to invite in; and that you do so in the way that you take whole families, so that you are not subsequently challenged by the fact that family reunification and other things can be applied for. It's just to get the nuances right. Because that is the way different countries are equipped with different preconditions • Canada, among other things. with its geographical location. You can have these attitudes and then have a geography that allows you to make sure how they are administered afterwards. And that is in contrast to a country like Denmark, which is on the European continent, and we have seen how to walk through Europe and put in its asylum applications wherever you want. It's just gonna have to be in this debate before we all just look up on something like that. Having said all that, it is quite clear that my government stands for the vision of man, that a person must be judged on himself, on who he is, on who he wants to be, on the values he stands for and not on what skin color he has, not on what religion he has, and not on his birthplace. These are the values we stand for, and that is how we want to administer Danish legislation. In general terms, I would like to call for all other world leaders to be on the same footing as ours, whether it is Donald Trump in the White House or President Xi in China or leaders elsewhere. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed himself very clearly on behalf of the government this weekend about this specific decree, which we saw, moreover, in Denmark's interest at the moment, devote a great deal of energy to understanding the way the Americans work with the actual scope, so that we can take care of Danish interests and mitigate negative effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143553	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143605	Today there are some reviews that I should like to read out: Jakob Silverhøj (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 60 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the shortening of long school days). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Question No. F 36 (Will the Minister explain the government's plans to raise pensionable age, given that, at the time of writing, at a national petition against a higher retirement age, 3F has collected almost 130,000 signatures in one week?). Marlene Harpsøe (DF) and others: Question No. F 37 (What can the Minister say about employment for people of foreign origin in Denmark, and what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that this group contributes more through the labour market, particularly with a focus on women?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado) has informed me that she wishes to withdraw the following bill: Draft law amending the Social Services Act. L 54 B). Does anyone wish to record this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143700	Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, has applied for leave from 31 January 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143730	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Radical Left in the Western Jyllands Storkreds, Sanne Bjørn, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 31 January 2017 on the occasion of Andreas Steenberg's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131143754	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. Christian Juhl There is no vote down here. ) Is there no vote? Then we'll have to try again. Everyone must have the opportunity to vote, so we have to take it again. We are changing the vote, because now it should work so that everyone can vote. Let's try this one more time. Here you go, now you can vote. That concludes the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 108 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144023	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 31 by Mogens Jensen (S), Søren Espersen (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Leif Mikkelsen (LA), Zenia Stampe (RV) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). Proposal for adoption No: V 31 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 30 by Søren Søndergaard (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144203	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 48 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 59 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144243	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144308	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144337	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. We're just gonna wait a minute for a little quiet. Here you go, Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144431	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that we support the proposal aimed at bringing together, modernising and simplifying the legal framework for the management of spatial information in a new main law. The law must support a safe, effective transition from paper cards to future cross-public digital management systems. The law must bring together and streamline future work for the benefit and benefit of both private and public companies, and we must, of course, make use of the new digitalisation opportunities. The bill is also a simplification of existing laws and is now down to 32 pages. Various consultation responses have been received, which we will of course observe in the committee's work. Then I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the SF, who unfortunately cannot be present at the debate, and say that the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144521	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144530	The Social Democrat rapporteur has already mentioned much of the material content of the draft law here. It is about collecting and improving and renewing the legislation on geodesy, land surveying, sea surveying and charting and other good things. These are, of course, important things for the optimum functioning of our society, and it is therefore reasonable that the government has taken the initiative to bring the legislation together in one piece and also to simplify the legislation as much as possible. I have also noted that the responses to the consultation which have been received are generally positive, which is why I do not have the great reservations about the draft law here, because, as the draft law says, it is also a question of not really amending existing legislation, but merely continuing the existing law, only in a well-written and simplified version. I can therefore say that, as the Danish People's Party is well pleased with the existing set of rules, we can also support the improvement of the rules here in the draft law. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144659	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mr. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144710	Thank you for that, President. I am pleased that we can now deal first with this legislative proposal, which is intended to bring together, modernise and simplify the rules for spatial information. This is positive every time we can debureaucratise and streamline the public sector, and we can do so with this bill. For here we have a part of the legislation that is becoming outdated and inadequate. The central law in the field of site-specific information has been amended only a few times since then, and with the digital development we are through, there is a need for the law to be updated so that it can also meet the needs of mappings in the future. We may not think about it very much in everyday life, but we are actually all users of spatial information: land mapping, charting, municipal boundaries, coastlines and the border between land and city. So yes, we are surrounded by spatial information, which is why it is of course important for all of us that the processing of spatial information is as up-to-date and effective as possible. It is important that we continue to have access to reliable up-to-date and usable data. We are helping to ensure this with this bill, which is why the Left will, of course, vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144851	Sometimes you wonder why a bill has turned into a bill. With regard to the proposal here, I would like to know whether the legislative preparatory work has included what the European Commission is working on: the Copernicus Earth Observation Programme, on which a conference is to be held shortly and which is a tool that the Commission wants to make available free of charge and which, in general, can handle data with an effect of as little as 1 m2. Is that something that, what should be said, has been taken into account in the legislative work that has been done here? The bill has made a lot of sense that you've looked backwards and what's the history of this. But is it a legislative proposal that, as such, can mean that you become more skilled and more skilled in handling data down to some detail? I would like to have an answer to that today or to have it clarified in the committee procedure that is to be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131144958	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145005	The legislative proposal, as has already been said a few times now, is about bringing together and modernising the legal basis for the management of our vital geographical data, also called spatial information. At the same time, a great deal of simplification has been introduced where it has been possible, and I have not learned from the hearings that there should be any problems in it. After all, the Liberal Alliance tends to be enthusiastic about regulatory simplifications, which is why we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145052	Thank you. It's going well here today. From the alternative, we are also in favour of this proposal, but I note that the National Association of Municipalities in their consultation answers both mentions that things have gone a little fast and that there are some consultation parties that have not really been given the opportunity to be involved in the process, and this always worries me a little. They end by questioning whether the data currently available free of charge, which is an essential basis for us to be so far in Denmark with spatial data and spatial data systems, are still available free of charge after this change. It can be very difficult to see through, so I intend to ask questions about that in committee work. Otherwise, however, we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145141	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145148	Then comes today's big surprise... No, it doesn't. It is, as the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, L 116 on spatial information that we are dealing with today, and since the law both streamlines and modernises, collects and improves the management of spatial information and even takes account of digital developments, we are radically in favour of this law. In fact, it was in my time as Minister for the Environment that we decided to release these spatial data because so many municipalities, companies and citizens really need these locational information and spatial data. It is clear that it must be quite clear that no payment is sneaking into any place in this area, so we will ask about that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145239	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145247	Thank you. When state jobs were relocated, the Spatial Data Board was divided into two boards, the Spatial Data Board and the Danish Agency for Data Supply and Efficiency. The law that applies today regulates only the Spatial Data Board, and therefore there is a need to have a complete package for it here, i.e.. That the bill here brings together more laws. The new rules in the law allow the data collected to be collected equally and can therefore be more easily used in conjunction with other data sets. In Danish this means that we can get the same language in the same places at the same time, so that binding rules can now be laid down for position services. In the past, these things have mostly been used, among other things. by farmers for agricultural land vehicles in fields. In the future, they will also be used for drones and self-propelled cars, which is why it is important to make rules that also include new inventions that are binding, so that safety in this area is in order. It also gives the Minister the power to determine which data are made available and for which payments are made. This means, of course, that we are giving the Minister the opportunity to work on what is available, for example. cadastral maps and maps and the creation of registers linked to the mapping and infrastructure of spatial information. This should ensure that solutions that can operate across the public and private sectors are chosen and also ensure that the frequency of data transmission and the format in which data are reported can be determined, all to ensure that data can be used in conjunction with other data. The Conservative People's Party supports Bill L 116.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145448	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I hope no one is doing speed control down here in the Chamber! Then we have reached the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145458	Thank you for that, President. And thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I see it as a very broad consensus to support the proposal. The aim of the proposal is to bring together and modernise the legal framework for the management of spatial information in a new main law and, at the same time, to simplify where possible. Precise and reliable surveying, charting and other recording of geographical data are a fundamental building block in our society. What does the landscape look like? Where are the cities? Who owns the buildings? Where's the county line? Where is the infrastructure? Where can we move freely in nature? We are all users of site-specific information to and from work, work and in our leisure time. Site-specific information is used in public administration, in preparedness and is part of the business base of private companies. The way in which we organise the collection, processing and distribution of spatial information helps to create the conditions for a well-functioning and efficient public sector. With spatial information, we also create good conditions for innovation and growth in business and a good framework for people's opportunities for development. Denmark is well involved in this area. We have continuously adapted the handling of site-specific information supported by digital developments in the public and private sectors. But it doesn't come by itself. An efficient infrastructure for site-based information requires that data are reliable, up-to-date and widely usable. This presupposes that we develop the framework for mapping and the public registers with locational information. This is the purpose of the bill. The public consultation on the draft law has generally been positive. That is how I sense the mood in this Chamber today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the legislative proposal in committee. A few questions were also asked along the way. Enhedslistens Søren Egge Rasmussen asked if the bill could accommodate Copernicus, and that's the bill prepared for. Christian Poll of the Alternative asked whether the data that is today free and available and free remains so, and they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145730	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145749	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131145810	The proposers of today's motion for a resolution want to amend the defence law so that the defence focus is more on defending Denmark's interests. At the same time, it is desirable to remove the part of the purpose so far defined that defence should promote peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights. We are faced with a serious and increasingly complex threat picture compared with a few years ago. The development towards a more aggressive and self-sustaining Russia is worrying, and also terrorism and cyber threats and key security challenges for Denmark. The fight against terrorism begins not only in Denmark, but also far away from Denmark, and that is among other things. Therefore, Danish soldiers participate in international operations. I believe that Denmark must continue to work for peaceful and democratic development in the world. Respect for human rights is also, in my understanding, an important and essential part of peaceful and democratic development. The Defence Act lays down the general framework for the operation of the defence. Within the broad framework, the Folketing decides in concrete terms how this is translated into operations etc. We must be able to assert Denmark's sovereignty, participate in international operations and ensure collective defence with NATO. There is therefore a need for us to inform our defence policy more widely in the future. Denmark's security begins to a large extent in the Baltics and in the Middle East and North Africa, and therefore it makes good sense that the defence is actively further away from Denmark. The defence is in demand to prevent conflicts and stabilise conflict-affected countries through long-term stabilisation efforts, and the defence has unique competences that can help safeguard Danish security policy interests. So forward-looking, too, it is important to have a credible, robust and at the same time flexible defence that can address today's security challenges and threats both close to Denmark, out in the world and in cyberspace. The Defence Act currently lays down the broad framework that is needed in order to best protect Danish interests. That is why I do not think there is any need at this stage to adjust the law as requested by the proposers, and it is therefore my recommendation that today's motion for a resolution, B 49, be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150112	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150116	Thank you. After all, the Secretary of Defense and I are in complete agreement that we must have a strong defence that is prepared to avert threats to Denmark. And the Minister for Defence and I also agree that Denmark must be able to participate in international operations. That is not what this proposal is all about. What this proposal is about is saying that it is a national task. It's Denmark you have to save. It's not the rest of the world. There is no right to intervene in other countries on the basis of specific principles. That's what this law unfortunately gives, and it can be misunderstood by someone. Therefore, the legal work should of course be cleaned up, so that the law actually describes what the Danish defence is supposed to be. But since it sounds like we disagree on some basic principles, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: what is peace?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150215	But we can also ask the question in this way: should we not make sure that, for example, there is something that is going to happen? are not terrorist attacks taking place in Europe? Is it not a form of peace that there are no terrorist attacks and that we are instrumental in combating terrorist organisations such as ISIL in Iraq?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150237	The reason I asked what peace is is because peace is the absence of war, peace is the absence of terrorist attacks. Peace is not If you define peace in this way, you get a warlike world where you go to war for principles; then you get a missionary world where you allow yourself to spread your own principles around. But of course Denmark must go against threats to Denmark's existence, even when it is terrorist threats that we do not disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150310	I'm glad. I would not have expected that either, so that we should disagree on these points. I fully acknowledge that. I just think that the framework there is is sufficiently broad, and it is of course up to the Folketing to define every time how we then engage in conflict and within what legal framework we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150334	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. The next speaker is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150348	Thank you. After all, we have to treat B 49 [pronouncement 9] as a nine in English], as the President would probably have said in military language, and in some media it is mentioned that it is Putin's best friend, Mrs Krarup, who has made this proposal. I am not going to judge that at all, but I would like to say at the outset, on behalf of the Social Democrats, that we are pleased with the wording in the defence law of what the defence can be used for. The fact that it is intended to promote peaceful development in the world, with respect for human rights and, therefore, which is being proposed here, to limit the situation seems to us to be a good thing. Of course we must also look at whether there are special interests for Denmark, but we always do. The way in which we have organised our defence and when to send out is, of course, that through many, many conciliations in the defence circle we have established the framework for it, and it is, of course, made up of all the parties of the Folketing, minus three parties at present. So you have to say that's really broad, and that's good too. Every time, when it comes to broadcasts and whether to participate in one place or another, it is presented here in the Folketing by a proposal, and there is always a reason for it. What I may think the Danish People's Party should rather look at in the seams are the actions that have been carried out in times when there has not been a proper and broad support behind our soldiers when they have been sent to war. That is, for example, the case. Iraq, which is a good example of what the former Socialist-led government said that there should always be a two-thirds majority in the Folketing, otherwise we will not send anyone out. I think that was a very good goal, because then we will ensure that, in relation to those we send out, we can be arduous enough even to be broad support from a very large part of the Danish Parliament's parties. So we think it would be far, far better to go and say things like that rather than change the defence law. Sometimes we are also asked whose lapdog you are from different quarters in the Assembly Hall, and we are nobody's, neither Putin's nor Trump's. We are able to assess what is best for the defence and what it is that we should participate in. It is nothing more than a few days ago that the Ministry of Defence issued an briefing that the Centre for Military Studies, the CMS, would do new analyses, and I think that, in fact, limits very well what is being talked about here. One is to clarify our international challenges for Danish defence, and it simply says, and I quote: Danish defence policy is subject to a number of international cross-pressures that increasingly challenge the foundations of defence policy. The security policy changes in the world around Denmark since the conclusion of the ongoing defence settlement are significant and result in increased demand for defence's international task solution, both to the north, east and south. Quote out. The second proposal concerns the strategy and strategic options on the southern agenda, terrorism, civil wars and fragile states, and here it says, and I quote: the increased migration towards Europe brought the consequences of the unstable geopolitical situation south and southeast of Europe even more clearly on the political agenda from 2015. The relationship between civil wars and fragile states, violent extremism and terrorism and more fundamentally weak political and economic institutions in these areas, combined with a large population growth, poses a security challenge for Denmark and Europe, both now and in the longer term. If you add to that what the Minister has already mentioned, then you can discuss what security policy challenges we face. They are different than they were a few years ago, after the fall of the Wall, etc., but there are also some indications that changes are taking place, and therefore Denmark's security not only begins here at the Danish-German border. It begins around the world, and the Baltic countries are an example that is the Middle East and there are other places. Yes, even the actions we have had in Mali, we fully support because it helps to seek and increase Denmark's security, even beyond Denmark's borders. So we cannot talk about the Danish defence just being used for the home country's problems and challenges, which is why we want to help make ourselves available with others, both the UN and NATO, when needed, and use Danish defence when it makes sense. It didn't in Iraq, where the Danish People's Party was with it otherwise it wouldn't have happened and I think it's a story we can learn a lot from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150859	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131150903	It is a little sad to hear that my very brief and clear resolution has not been understood by the rapporteurs. This is not, of course, about the process of how to adopt one or the other of the Parliamentary Assembly; it is not about an analysis of the security situation; it is not about who sits on the lap of who and who sticks his fingers in his ears and holds his hand in front of his eyes. That is not what this is about. This is a fundamental debate about what we can use the Defense for. Does the rapporteur think it would be a good idea to send the rapporteur's son to fight for human rights in Sudan or some very foreign place very far from Denmark's borders? I hope that the rapporteur does not think that the life of the rapporteur's son is worth so much that his life will be put at risk for some quite foreign conflicts which have nothing to do with Denmark. I think that would be a very reckless association with the lives of Danish soldiers. That is what we are talking about: a fundamental debate on when we can say yes in here and when we have to say no to various defence missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151023	I don't know if you thought about that when you sent soldiers to war in Iraq. However, I would just like to say that if we send some of them first of all, it will take place after a thorough debate and I think it should be as broad as possible. Secondly, as far as the individual is concerned, we have not sent anyone off against their will, so it will be very much the young people themselves who will decide whether they think they should take part in an action or not. There has therefore been a high degree of willingness on the part of the Danish soldiers in the way we have organized ourselves. But if it's the case that it's needed, yes, then we do it. We'll put our backs on it. And that is why, of course, it must be done with the highest security for the soldiers we send. We always discuss this and reach a broad consensus on how we do it, and then press the button. That's the way I think is best. But I also think that by a two-thirds majority that is far more important than the question raised here by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151129	The Danish People's Party voted to participate in the Iraq war because we thought there was a threat from Iraq. Afterwards it turned out not to be right. But you only have to say yes to a military operation where you risk the lives of Danish soldiers if there is a threat to Denmark. When the rapporteur says that we should now leave it voluntary for people, whether they want to participate or not, we are in the absurdity of the whole thing. Should we then even vote on whether they are going to war or not? Why don't we just write some newspaper articles and ask if people want to go or not? So, please try to take the Danish Parliament's responsibility seriously for the sake of the Defence Organisation and for the sake of Denmark's existence. That is what this is all about. It is a fundamental debate about what we must use the Defence for. And there is no clear message from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151215	I know no one has been sent off against his will. It is true that Denmark has made decisions to allow soldiers to leave. The people who signed up for the missions have volunteered. But I am glad to hear the rapporteur, Mrs Krarup, somewhere, regretting that she agreed that Danish soldiers should be sent to war in Iraq because it turned out that the basis was wrong. That is precisely the kind of thing that makes us have to think very carefully before we send some of us some other time and have a much wider basis than what was the case with the Iraq war. I hope you've learned that much. But we do not want to change the defence law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151256	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marie Krarup as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151309	Thank you. What is the purpose of the Danish defence? It sounds like a stupid question where the answer is given in advance: to defend Denmark, of course. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. In fact, it has also defended the responsibility for promoting world peace and security and respect for human rights. That's what the law says about the purpose of the defense. In fact, a military defense of Denmark's territory is only the second highest of the three purposes that the law says the defense has. The first objective is to prevent conflicts and wars and it is not said in which areas of the world. The second is to assert Denmark's sovereignty and ensure the country's continued existence and integrity. And the third is to promote peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights. There are more problems in that law. Therefore, with this resolution, I would like to see the law amended. For that is of course the second purpose, that is to assert Denmark's sovereignty, which is the right purpose for the Danish defence. Objective No 1 to prevent conflicts and war also makes sense if it narrows to our vicinity. For how and why, however, Danish defence must be committed to preventing conflicts in remote areas such as: Africa or South America? It only makes sense if we talk about our neighbourhoods such as the Arctic or the Baltic region. The third objective is simply wrong. Of course, it cannot be the task of Danish defence to promote peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights, let alone, if it is understood that the spread of human rights promotes peaceful development in the world. If this were really the task of the defence, Danish soldiers would be obliged to fight all over the world for the introduction of human rights, and we do not mean that seriously. Who wants his son sent to war for human rights in Yemen or Sudan? And would such a human rights mission not lead to more conflicts in the world? It has to be said that the present law on defence objectives of 1993 is a remnant of the so-called liberal world order which is being dismantled before our very eyes. The liberal world order is the name of the optimistic attitude towards a world that won in after the end of the cold war. Francis Fukuyama's idea of the end of history became common thinking among most decision makers and intellectuals. Now Communism had vanished with the Soviet Union, and democracy and human rights would spread across the globe and create peace and freedom for all. It would almost go on its own. But not quite, so you had to have armed forces that could help give the countries that were a little slow to change a pouf in the back so that they could get started with the necessary democratic and human development. This is where our 1993 legislation comes in. With Trump in the White House, Fukuyama's era is completed, and the realistic world picture will hopefully spread. The realistic world picture is that we recognise that different cultures and countries have different values. But do not recognise so-called universal human rights as universal. You see them as an expression of parts of Western culture, i.e. for partial values originated in a very special context and history. There is no need to fear other cultures and values if we can only have a system whereby we recognise the right of other countries to determine their own system and domestic policy. Remember, the West is not like the Soviet Union, which actually felt an obligation to spread its communist world revolution to all countries. It was pretty scary. The realistic world picture must be combined with the Western false principles of sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries. It gives stability. If we can get other countries to accept this behavior, we have come a long way. The liberal world order is destabilising in its being because it gives us as carriers of liberal values an obligation to spread them in other areas of the world. That is what this law says about the purpose of defence. That is why it is important to change. With this proposal to change the purpose of defence to the logical and realistic that it is the defence's task to defend the Danish territory and to prevent conflicts and war in Denmark's vicinity, we will help to dismantle the utopia of the liberal world order and reinstall common sense and pragmatism in the law on defence. For of course we cannot oblige Danish soldiers to risk their lives for political utopias conceived shortly after the fall of the Wall. Of course, we can only ask them to risk their lives when there are serious threats to Denmark and Danish interests. That goes without saying. And that is why, of course, I would urge the other parties of the House to take a positive view of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151808	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151814	Thank you. I do not know if I should thank you for the belligerent speech by the rapporteur, which was made in such a militaristic way of speaking. But what I would like to hear from the rapporteur is: if there were a majority in favour of joining the Danish People's Party and changing it here, what were some wars of those who have been since 1992 that we had not participated in, that is, if the words of the Danish People's Party had been invoked? If the rapporteur can reach it: is it only in Danish airspace, and is it in international waters or in Danish maritime territorial waters and within Danish borders that the defence needs to be used? Can it be used outside those things in the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131151902	Thank you for the question. One had to speak a little quickly to achieve everything within five minutes, so that was why the resolute vote was taken. We believe that the defence can be used outside the Danish borders. In fact, we have written that in the comments. That's not what this is about. But there must be a threat to Denmark, and that is what is crucial. We should not participate in wars when there is no threat to Denmark. We should not participate in operations where only human rights are introduced. It could be Libya, it could be Kosovo. It's not okay. But when there's a threat to Denmark it can be quite close to our territory, but it can also be far from our territory. And, of course, there is every sense in fighting al-Qaeda in Afghanistan where we were under threat, and it makes sense to fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152007	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152009	So, in addition to Iraq, which I have previously confirmed was a mistake, it also now appears that we should not have participated in Kosovo and Libya either. That is why I still have to know what it is that you can participate in. So you can participate when it's something that's about Muslims, and otherwise you don't like it. That is how I almost hear the rapporteur put it. Because there are a large number of other places where we have been with our alliance partners in NATO and where it makes good sense. What's the problem with that? What is it that the rapporteur is opposed to us participating with others in promoting peaceful development and stabilisation as well? It can be both capacity building and a wide range of other things when there has been war and dictatorship for many years. Then it must be sensible to return to normalized conditions. What else would that be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152104	The connection is that you have to participate. As parliamentary politicians, we can allow ourselves to send our soldiers out when there is a threat to Denmark. That's it. And if it comes from China, it is China; if it is from Russia, it is against Russia; if it is from another country, it is against it. It has nothing to do with Islam. It happens that the threat is Islamic terror right now, and that is why many of the resolutions we will see where to use the Defence will, of course, be directed against Islamic terror. Of course, it does not matter to combat those threats, but to undertake to mission to other countries on how their systems should be, we cannot, we should not. It's our soldiers' lives too precious for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152153	Thank you. I would like to thank the author of this motion for a resolution, because I agree entirely with the author of the motion that this is a fundamental discussion which must be taken frequently and on many occasions. But perhaps I also think that Mrs Marie Krarup, in her answer to the Socialist question, does not take into account developments, the time perspective, because this is not the same situation we are facing now, as we did ten years ago, and as we will be doing in ten years' time. Therefore, I would like to ask a little more about what sort of things Mrs Krarup might imagine we should not contribute to. Could it be a staff sent out to the UN observer? Or is it a UN contribution to a conflict in Africa where human rights are trampled underfoot? Or what exactly are some situations that Mrs Krarup does not think we should be able to contribute to in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152250	I would say that operations such as those in Kosovo and Libya should be avoided, but we could also think of UN operations, where it has to be said that this is not the job of Danish soldiers and that, as I said before, their lives are too expensive. What I find interesting is that this provision on the purpose of defence has only been introduced in 1993. In the past one has not had a purpose clause because it has given itself that the defense was, of course, for the defence of Denmark and not so much more. That is why I think we should clean this up, because it is very ideological legislation. And in addition to the fact that, in my opinion, the defence has already been used incorrectly, we run the risk that it will be possible to do more in the future. I just think we need to clean up and unmount that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152347	Yes, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152349	Thank you for your answer. This is, of course, a matter of principle, and that is why I really think that these discussions belong here from motions for resolutions to motions for resolutions, in which the Danish Parliament can debate the specific situation and the concrete contribution that Denmark may have to make. With this proposal, I think that Mrs Marie Krarup will, to a certain extent, cut off future parliamentary assemblies from being able to take that debate in concrete terms. Wouldn't Mrs Marie Krarup agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152424	That's exactly what I want. I want to cut off future Parliament from debating it because our soldiers' lives are simply too precious for it. I'm glad my son is no longer in the defense. I would be nervous about what the Folketing could do, and there I believe that all soldiers mothers in Denmark should be perfectly calm and know that their lives will be put at risk when Denmark's survival is in danger. And then it is perfectly reasonable, and that is the agreement we have with Danish society; that is what we want. But that politicians can use it for more or less adventurous or prestigious operations around the world is not right. So it's exactly future Parliament's strange decisions I'd like to stop the possibility of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152508	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152511	When Mrs Marie Krarup rushes out so violently and says that it is too bad to send out Danish soldiers to install certain forms of government or to fight for human rights around the world, one might get the impression that somebody in the Folketing does. However, I hope that Mrs Krarup will confirm that there are no examples of this. There are no examples of Denmark sending soldiers to war for the purpose of promoting specific human rights. When we went to war in Iraq, it was about weapons of mass destruction when we went to war in Afghanistan, it was about terrorist training camps for the Taliban following a very concrete attack on one of our allies in New York and Washington. So it is a great strawman Mrs. Marie Krarup has built up here, on which you stand and hammer. The truth is that the Folketing does not send Danish soldiers to promote human rights, nor to install some Danish form of democracy around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152611	I do not agree with the Conservative rapporteur on this. I believe that the operations in Libya and Kosovo were precisely human rights operations. And I believe that the military is part of the resolution we are debating in this Chamber, but that there are also other parts of it. So I disagree with that. And I believe that this is a very large part of our debate, and so it can also be an activist rhetoric that can whip up a mood where you know that you can threaten to participate in operations because we have this legislation and this attitude. This in itself can create the risk of conflict. There I think it will be stabilising for everyone if we recognise that the Danish defence must of course be used solely to defend Denmark and assert Denmark's interests and not in these utopian or missionary campaigns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152713	Mrs Krarup is quite right about that, so if human rights are to stop genocide, then it is true that it has certainly been an important part of the motivation for the operations in, among others, the former Yugoslavia. Kosovo and Libya. I understand that Mrs Marie Krarup and the Danish People's Party are opposed to this, that is to say we stop genocide. Then all we have to do is agree that this is what we are talking about and that we are not talking about promoting equality or freedom of the press or something that sounds like we are sending out soldiers for something that is not very important. Then I just want to know if it should be understood as a disgusting criticism of the Danish People's Party's own decisions on e.g.. to support the operation in Libya, including: Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Søren Espersen voted in favour at the time with the rest of the Danish People's Party. Is that a criticism of what Mrs Krarup is saying here from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152804	We agree that such missionary campaigns should not be carried out, and they may be of many different species, and the rapporteur is right that the operations in Libya and Kosovo were precisely that. Our rapporteur has said on several occasions that it was a mistake to vote in favour of the operation in Libya. We should not have done that with the basic attitude that we have. The reason why we should not do this, apart from putting the lives of our own soldiers at risk for something that is, like, not included in the social contract we have, is that we are not succeeding in creating the societies with respect for human rights that we want. Look what happened in Libya. This has not led to fewer people being killed. There has been a chaos where a lot of people have died in the slipstream of it. So it's counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152902	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131152905	Thank you. Sometimes it is very good to set things very clearly, and I think that has been done in this resolution. My question comes from the fact that I often find myself and the alternative in a difficult situation. Criticism of the role of NATO, for example, or of the role we see the United States today, is indeed difficult, because I believe that we are deeply, deeply dependent on both the United States and NATO today in Denmark, including defence policy. So in the criticism I can make, there will always be a big hole, because what is our answer, and what are we going to deliver instead? I can then try to argue for that as well as possible. I'm experiencing the same thing here. I read this motion for a resolution as if we should protect ourselves to a greater extent in Denmark alone, and perhaps it is an indirect rejection of the alliances to which we must contribute. It may be that I am the one who overinterprets, but I read it as if Denmark's defence is supposed to protect Denmark, and we must to a lesser extent form part of the alliances that we are a part of. And I think that our defence alone is based on the alliances of which we are a part, because we simply cannot defend ourselves. That is my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153012	Thank you for the question. Of course, it is extremely important that we are part of NATO. It is our self-defense that we are part of the alliance that is so strong and has the very, very important musketeered. And we must focus precisely on NATO, but that is actually what we are not doing today. It is very unfortunate that we are not contributing enough to NATO. This is not a criticism which I have in the motion for a resolution today, because if Danish defence is to contribute to ensuring Denmark's security, integrity and so on, I think that we are doing exactly that through NATO. That's a really good way to do it, so we support that one hundred percent. Our criticism in this motion for a resolution goes to all the other things that we believe create a lack of clarity as to what the purpose of the defence is, and gives some opportunities for future Parliament to vote in favour of something that I do not think Danish soldiers have actually agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153121	But is it not the rapporteur's view that, for example, the UN peacekeeping efforts, which we also contribute to, are precisely helping to ensure that Denmark is defended through the alliance structures that we have built up, because we cannot defend ourselves ourselves? It is there that I and the alternative simply fail to understand the desire to deprive some of the most important elements in our view, namely that we must contribute to and promote a peaceful world because we ourselves cannot and must therefore contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153154	I believe that we are being too drunk when we say that we must contribute to and promote a peaceful world. Come on! You have to concentrate on where you actually have an influence. In the same way, I would recommend that the rapporteur not wish to make all women happy, but perhaps concentrate on his wife. That is also how we could concentrate on creating peace and development in Denmark instead of doing so all over the world, because we cannot do so anyway, and then it becomes a reality-removal utopia, and we risk abusing our soldiers in some missions that may lead to exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153229	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153232	Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to be there during the debate, but allow me to put a question to the rapporteur here. It's an interesting showdown with this neoconservative approach, which was behind the Iraq War, and which George Bush and Cheney and those people advocated. But the truth is always concrete. That is why I still think it will be very far-reaching when the rapporteur talks about not going out and fighting for human rights and all that, but saying that it is only for Denmark's interests. But could I not be told what the narrow Danish interests in that we have been in Afghanistan are? Has it lowered the terrorist threat in Denmark that we have been in Afghanistan? What is the specific, concrete Danish interest in us being in Iraq and Syria at the moment? Moreover, does the rapporteur think that the policy will be changed by changing the purpose of the defence law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153340	This proposal is exactly a showdown of neoconservative thinking and also what is called the liberal world order. So thank you for the good observation. The Danish People's Party has voted in favour of Denmark fighting in Afghanistan and against the Islamic State in Iraq because we thereby eliminate threats to Denmark. We have not voted in favour of introducing a new regime, a more democratic regime or a regime that was more friendly to human rights in Afghanistan or Iraq. I am well aware that there are also such parts in the resolutions we normally vote on here, but when the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of these operations, it is for the realistic reason that we want to remove threats to Denmark and Denmark's existence, and we also want to do so, even if they are far away from Denmark's borders. It makes absolutely sense. It has given greater security in the world that Al-Qaeda can no longer build from Afghanistan. It will provide greater security in the world when the Islamic State can no longer build from Iraq. But that does not mean that they have been exterminated from the surface of the earth, unfortunately. Unfortunately, they will pop up elsewhere, that is true, but it would have been worse if they had not been attacked in Afghanistan and now in Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153505	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153507	That is where things go wrong, I think, when we begin to analyse war participation on the basis of the purpose descriptions and what the relevant legislative proposals say. Because if you look at reality, Danish participation in the Afghanistan war has not reduced the threat to Denmark. On the contrary, the threat of terrorism has become quite much greater. The war in Iraq was, after all, what generated the Islamic State through al-Qaeda and, if you think they are a threat, remember that they are there because we entered the Iraq war at the time. This means that the war participant has had the opposite effect of being a defence for Denmark. That is why I cannot understand why the Danish People's Party continues to defend the Danish participation in the Iraq War and the Afghanistan War on the basis that it is in Denmark's interest, whereas the Libya War was not. There's not much difference between that kind of thing. All these wars have created chaotic conditions in their surroundings. We also supported the Libya war and it was a mistake. I recognise that, but we did not support the Afghanistan war and not the Iraq war. I also think that the Danish People's Party should be able to look at this in a different way and say that it is at all a problem that we believe that we can, if I may say so, create stability in the Middle East through war participation. And it has nothing to do with human rights, freedom, equality, but it has something to do with the fact that it is just a wrong means to use in that context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153637	Thank you. This could be a long war, but now it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153641	I agree with the rapporteur that we cannot create stability. But we can remove the people who want to commit terrorist attacks and who are planning a terrorist attack. We could with Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, and we can with the Islamic State in Iraq, and that is what we need to go for. But spreading it out to believe that we can save the Middle East or make some countries become flourishing democracies or whatver is, of course, naive and stupid, and it is in itself a destabilising dream. When we are out fighting some, it is clear that a lot of problems arise. We should not be pale about that, and we should also consider it when we do so. However, I believe that the world has become a safer place by the fact that there is no possibility of al-Qaeda building terrorist centres in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153738	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153753	Thank you for that, President. The proposal we are discussing here today is essentially aimed at limiting Denmark's defence to Denmark's immediate vicinity, and we in the Left do not agree with that. The defence law, which there is a desire to change, ensures that Denmark today can choose to insert the defence, where it makes sense, to look after Denmark and Danish interests, and Denmark's security starts not only at the border, but also where there is instability and conflict. Many intelligent things have been said in this debate, so I will not prolong it further, but just say that the Left cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153845	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Yeah, it can go fast here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131153903	Thank you. Yeah, it kind of waves back and forth in these kind of battles here, you might say. Defence and security policy must protect Denmark, help promote peace and stability and prevent war, or, as Section 1 of the Defence Act describes: Military defence must contribute to the promotion of peace and security. I guess you don't have to write more than that. After the Cold War a period arose when Denmark's security interests were best safeguarded through a great military effort very far from its borders, but a new threat situation now means that we need to prioritise the more traditional regional and national defence, while the new threat situation requires a greater degree of cooperation and coordination with our closest allies. It certainly makes no sense for me to think Danish defence in isolation. There is therefore a development in progress which has created a need for a more European focus on security policy in Denmark. The defence has all the way through this demonstrated a high degree of adaptability within the existing legal framework, and the Danish defence is very effective and flexible, and the defence must remain so, and therefore it is likely that some more national and regionally oriented defence tasks will have to be consolidated over the coming years. However, the Liberal Alliance still wants a broad clause in the defence law, so that we in Denmark, with a majority in the Folketing, can continue to contribute as flexibly as possible to the overall agreed defence effort in NATO, and that is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution before us from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154116	There is a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154121	I would just like to point out that this does not change anything about our ability to participate in NATO's collective defence. It's Denmark's self-defense. So an attack on NATO is also an attack on Denmark and, of course, we can use our defences. It has nothing to do with it. That is why the Liberal Alliance's reason for opposing the motion for a resolution also lapses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154153	That was not the only reason why I mentioned it in my list. That's how it was supposed to be understood. But, of course, I am also pleased that Mrs Marie Krarup believes that NATO remains the crux of Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154212-2	Yes, and this is extremely important. Of course, we must support NATO 100%. But if NATO were to turn itself into a mini-UN and do out of area operations which have nothing to do with Article 5 and which are carried out to promote human rights and not to eliminate a threat to Denmark, then Denmark should be able to say no, or rather, Denmark should not be able to say yes. That is what the resolution is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154244	After all, the debate here has made that clear to me and, as we also had an exchange of views on previous occasions, I believe that it must also be the Parliament which, through majority decisions, has to decide what contributions Denmark should make in various military contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154309	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154319	Thank you. I think there are elements in this debate that are really, really interesting, and elements that are so far too little space for fragmentation. I actually think that we will have enough discussion in here at Christiansborg, but it may be difficult to get out with it really well, because there is so much difference in our views politically in this area that it should get much more attention. The rapporteur's speech by the proposer is almost as far away from what we stand for in the alternative as we can get in this area. But I will try to find the elements where I can follow the motion for a resolution. I understand very well that you will have a debate about when we send our Danish soldiers to war; when you risk life from Denmark in the fight for something. There has been a debate about whether it was for human rights when we send soldiers to war, or whether it was to protect Denmark, and that debate is very relevant. We are in general opposed to sending soldiers to war unless we have a very clear plan for what it is and how to bring about peace in the end. And it is infinitely difficult in most war situations to have that plan on hand. That is why the debate is interesting. Conversely, I also think that this is a picture of why the debate on our defence efforts and our stock purchases in Denmark can sometimes be twisted in my view, because it will appear and that is the rapporteur's view as I hear it, and certainly not my position as if Denmark has a position where we can only to some extent defend ourselves. And no matter how much I can praise the Danish defence, no matter how much I will at any time acknowledge the competences of our soldiers and our leaders, and also our ability to use both aircraft and other material, we do not believe in the alternative that we in Denmark can defend ourselves in any way. I also hear from the rapporteur that NATO cooperation is so much part of our defence. In the alternative, we believe that NATO cooperation is part of our defence. We believe that the most important thing is our efforts with the very broad UN mandate, with all the drawbacks that can then be, by the fact that the Security Council sometimes finds it difficult to agree on matters. But there's a very large part of Denmark's defence in these very alliances where we're going to make sure that we make contributions in the world that make others want to protect us. Because we are otherwise completely unprotected as tiny little states, no matter how talented our military is. I am thinking of removing elements from our current basis in the law, which states that we will try to create a framework for a peaceful world. That's what you want to take out. So, if I read from the outside that it was Denmark's wish to remove it, as well as the other element that it should only be in places where we have an interest in the areas, we will go in and contribute humanitarianly, then I would think that it is some who have closed themselves up. There I can be frightened when the U.S. with Trump at the head goes out with similar reports at the moment. And there I think it is important to mention Trump in the same sentence as the United States, because I have very, very much respect for the benefit we have gained from being very close to the United States and the element of freedom that lies in the United States. But what Trump is bringing up right now, gungling and making me really nervous. If other countries hear that Denmark is making similar statements as I actually think there are in this motion for a resolution, that is to say that we will close ourselves to ourselves, even though we recognise NATO cooperation as essential, then I do not think we will get a long way in informing the people and ourselves as to what it is really necessary to look after Denmark and what responsibility we have and what it is that we should contribute. Because we can't defend ourselves. That is why I think we should be very careful to indicate that we are only interested in those areas where there are self-interests. If other countries did so, a country like Denmark would be very, very bad, and it is not my view that this is the history we have had in Denmark, that is that we have taken a position where we in any way acted as a great power or as some who isolated ourselves. So we're gonna say clearly to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154735	Well, the rapporteur has misunderstood the proposal if it is perceived that we do not want to contribute to NATO. We believe that NATO is a guarantee of our sovereignty and our freedom and our independence. With regard to the issue of ensuring peace in the world, I used the example of the rapporteur concentrating on making his wife happy, rather than saying: all women in the world. We're just being realistic. We want to make Denmark safe and secure through active participation in NATO. If we say that we can make the whole world safe and secure, then we'll take our mouths too full. It can't be done. It is quite uncommonly unrealistic. And that's not shutting yourself down. It is to look at the world realistically, but also to avoid going into some adventures that may cost Danish soldiers their lives and where we have no right to let them fight or die.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154842	This gives me the opportunity to put myself in a small-state role, because I have no expectation that I can make every woman in the world happy, not even a single one. So when I know it, we can see whether Denmark should believe that isolation can secure itself against the rest of the world. Now I've got the question twice, and I think it's kind of out of place to pull in private relationships, but I hope Sofie at home is happy. I am thinking of the misunderstanding about NATO. It's not a misunderstanding. I hurry to acknowledge that the rapporteur has just said that NATO would like to contribute to this. I think that's good. In the alternative, we can be critical of NATO, but I do not see NATO immediately as having any substitute, although we would like to work at the United Nations and to have much stronger EU cooperation. We're not there yet, but we're gonna have to push to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154930	Thank you. It is quite true that it is definitely outside the subject and private matters are not being discussed. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131154945	As several speakers have said, the purpose of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution is to clarify, as it says, the Danish defence tasks. This must be done on the one hand by the fact that the Danish People's Party wishes that the section of section 2 of the Defence Act which provides for defence to promote peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights to be deleted, on the other hand, by specifying section 6, so that it is clear that if defence is to contribute to conflict resolution and peace-building and peace-keeping humanitarian tasks, it is a condition that it is tasks in areas of particular interest to Denmark. I have to say that this is a very special proposal from the Danish People's Party. It is simply incomprehensible to me how one can be opposed to Denmark and Danish defence promoting peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights. It doesn't say that you have to fix the whole world all at once. Nor does it say that everything should be thrown into it without any reservation whatsoever about resources, human costs and all such things. It simply says very peacefully and Danish, if I may say so, that we must promote peaceful development. The Danish People's Party is so opposed. The Radical Left is not. We think it makes perfect sense to contribute to the peaceful development of the world. And promoting human rights in our optics is not contrary to promoting Danish interests. If we look at what is currently Denmark's immediate vicinity, at where there is currently some pressure, and at where millions of people are unfortunately being driven on the run, it is something that the Danish People's Party is otherwise very concerned about, it is where, to put it mildly, there is no peaceful development and where human rights, if I may say so, are not respected at all. If one imagined that there were no armed conflicts and if one imagined that there were no regimes, either in the East or in the South, that promoted all these conflicts and that so much was the welfare of their peoples, but promoted sustainable development, including economic development, then I do not think we would have as many of the challenges as we have today. How it can be contrary to Danish interests to promote it, I do not understand. In doing so, I have almost also said that I find it difficult to see the contradiction between promoting peaceful development with respect for democracy and human rights and promoting Danish interests. As far as we are concerned, this is the same, since we must, of course, constantly weigh up for and against the European Union, especially if it is to be by military means. There I can understand the scepticism of the Danish People's Party, because can a democracy be established by military means? I'm not sure about that either. We've tried that in some places without much success. I agree with that, but I find it hard to see why we should not try to promote peaceful development with respect for human rights. So thank you for the proposal, but no thanks from the radical side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155246	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155250	This is the law of defense. So when we talk about promoting human rights, it is by military means. Why else would it be in the law of defence? The defense is so it actually makes sense to put the heel down here. Of course, the Danish People's Party would like a peaceful world, and if it is to be with human rights, so be it. People must believe what they want: human rights religion, Buddhism, Islam, what ever. That is not the point; we should not interfere in that. The problem is that this exactly allows the Danish Parliament to intervene militarily in other countries to introduce human rights. That is the problem, and that is what must go. Because I don't think Danish soldiers' mothers really believe that their sons should be used for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155350	When, as Foreign Minister, I think it was at my last meeting of Foreign Ministers in the NATO ministerial circle that I had a discussion about what really worked under NATO, there was a broad recognition that some of the things we were worst at when we had made a military effort, for example. freed Mosul, which we are doing well now, was to come behind with a stabilising, democracy-building effort that ensured that not just a relapse into terrorism or dictatorship or whatever it might be, and then new security problems got on their necks. This is such a grey area because it will typically require the presence of some soldiers to carry out the duties of authority until they are handed over to the local community, but it is also a task involving many other forms of funding, including humanitarian funds, and some of what Denmark is really good at, namely combined efforts which help to promote peaceful development with respect for human rights for Danish safety. I do not see why we should opt out of the opportunities not only to do the hard work, if I may say so, but also to ensure that we do not have to go out again. That is what I think one disclaims here by saying in advance that one cannot at all imagine that someone from the Danish defence should be included in such softer interventions as in my optics is as important for a successful operation as the hard efforts are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155519	This is a different debate, and I think that we should take it in connection with the defence agreement, to what extent the defence should actually be used for purposes other than fighting down enemies militarily. That is where I think there is a debate. We are concerned here with the principle of whether we can afford to use the defence military to promote a certain ideological agenda. I think we should disclaim the Folketing an opportunity to do so. Whether or not we should use defence in civil contexts in connection with the end of conflicts, I think that is another debate, and I think that we should take that too, but it is not, as it were, part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155607-2	I think they are now quite closely connected, but peace be with it, if I may say so, if it is allowed to say so here. Let me just put it this way: I do not recall that this Parliament has at any time sent Danish soldiers to some missions where we did not also think it was in Danish interest to do so. Otherwise, it wouldn't make any sense. We considered it to be in Danish interest. And sometimes I don't have a part to play in voting it through, among other things. when the Danish People's Party was involved in sending the first of them to Iraq, for then I was not sure that it was in Danish interest, nor was I sure that it was something that would promote peaceful development or human rights, and that is why we voted against. However, when it comes to the current action in Iraq, for example, the aim is precisely to free Iraq from terrorism and thus make it more difficult for Daesh to attack us. But that also helps to promote peace and human rights in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155709	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131155720	After all, this is such a part of a national conservative armament that Dansk Folkeparti promotes in many different contexts. Words are grateful, and this proposal is a blow to the air. It will have no meaning whatsoever, because changing the purpose clause in the defence law does not change anything in itself unless it is the case that different activities can then be defined subsequently by means of that objective provision. And it is therefore rare to do so by means of a purpose clause. It's one thing. Something else is that there are different loopholes in this, different exceptions. I think that this would make sense if there were in it that the whole Danish defence was set up by the grass, so that it should stay within the Danish borders. Then this would make sense. But that is not the case. In other words, they must be able to operate outside the country's borders. Then you get into a very, very intricate discussion about what Danish interests are and what are not Danish interests. That cannot be decided on the basis of the objective clause. In other words, there will be a subsequent discussion of it. But as I said earlier, the truth is concrete. The truth cannot be made a major abstract, philosophical discussion on human rights and democracy, and what Mrs Krarup attaches great importance to. Well, that's practical. In other words, one has to be able to argue that it is Danish interests that make us in Afghanistan. I personally believe that it is impossible to lift that evidence. The Danish People's Party disagrees, and it is then a political disagreement that we have Can one argue that it is because of Danish interests that we are in Iraq? No, I don't think you can do that. The Danish People's Party believes that this is a good thing, and it will then be a political disagreement. But that is not something that can be decided on the basis of the objective clause in the defence law. That is why it is, in this way, a rather, rather absurd proposal. If you want to do this, you have to find out what it is we can do so that we do not have such different floating limits as to when you can be in it and when you cannot be in it. If we are to legislate in advance on what we should be involved in, then we must be able to say exactly what we can be involved in and what we cannot be involved in. There's no such thing in this. I would like to conclude by saying that, as I said in a brief comment, I think it is a good thing that there is a dispute with this neo-conservative missionary attitude, which drove around the Iraq war, where, as it were, you would need military power to get a McDonald's on every street corner around the world. That is not what we think is a fair way of using the defence and the military, and we also disagree with it. It's caused instability around the world. But one thing I just don't understand at all, I have to say, is the constant commitment of the Danish People's Party and the constant encouragement that we should have more defence spending here in Denmark. We're going up to 2%. of the GDP objective as soon as possible. The sooner the better. At the same time, with this proposal, the Danish People's Party will, after all, have to read it, restrict Danish participation in international missions around the world, in the Middle East. That's how you have to understand this proposal. And it is at the same time that the party does not believe that Russia is a threat to Denmark. Then that's what I'm asking myself where the threat is. Where is the threat of a military to cost 15 billion? kr. More, must stand up to? Why spend so much money on a threat that doesn't seem to be there? When we are not going to be in the Middle East and when Russia is not a threat, what is it you want to spend all that money on? So I think that, to put it mildly, there are some brief points in this proposal by the Danish People's Party, but indeed there is also in the general foreign and security policy of the Danish People's Party. That is why I think it might be interesting to have a comment on it from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160132	It is fortunate that there is just a brief comment from Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160139	It will probably take a little longer to explain the Danish People's Party's defence policy, which of course is that we should have a strong defence that can defend Denmark as far as possible because Denmark is a small country, and we cannot predict the world. We cannot know which threats are popping up, so we cannot say exactly what to do with it. But that is not really what I wanted to ask the rapporteur, because it is just a question of general defence policy, which we are constantly debating, and it is therefore strange that the defence rapporteur has not yet understood it, but I should like to repeat it many times on other occasions. What are Denmark's interests and what is peace? I think that is two very important questions that need to be asked when we have this fundamental debate. And that's where I think we might not agree. In my opinion, Denmark's interest is a continued independent and free Denmark. And that is what we are allowed to vote for our defences to be used for. I do not think that Denmark's interest is that there is one particular ideology that is spreading throughout the world, because then we are a little like the Soviet Union that would promote the world revolution. I think we can be a little indifferent to how they feel in Sudan. Although it is a pity for the Sudanese, it is not our obligation to ensure that there is peace and respect for human rights in Sudan; so we cannot afford to put Danish human lives at risk to change their governance or their ideology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160312	Yes, but instead of moving into a large abstract school, I think we should return to the fact that the truth is concrete. The truth is concrete, and surely we should not be anywhere in the world where we do not have interests. But that's where we disagree. We don't get it, they say. Yeah, I've understood all too well, too well, but we just disagree on this point. For I simply believe that the Danish People's Party has a completely limited approach to what is Danish interests. For them, it is something about the threat being such some unidentified Islamism that comes to us, and then they think that you can put the military in action against it. That is where we have the disagreement: in the belief that the military can be deployed against what the Danish People's Party believes is the threat. I understand that it is Islamism that is believed to be the threat, that is, that it is not Russia, not something in the Middle East, but Islamism as an ideology that comes to us. And then you have the idea that you can put the military against that. Well, I'm sorry, I'm saying that you can use the military for several things, but you can't use the military for that kind of threat to our society. I think it is also important that we start discussing threats and security policy on grounds other than the classic military premises. And that's why I think that the Danish People's Party is going completely wrong with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160447	In other words, the rapporteur does not believe that the Islamic State can be combated with military threats. I think you can, and of course I think you should use the defense for that. It is very sensible, just as it was sensible to use the defense to fight al-Qaeda in Afghanistan. But that is why there are many other threats which, of course, the defence cannot be used for inside the country, where there is a threat to freedom of expression, against women's freedom, especially in certain environments, in ghetto environments, etc. We cannot use the defence against that, and neither should we. But by God we can use the defense against the Islamic State in Iraq, and we could use it against Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan. But I think there is some confusion as to what a threat to Denmark is. As I see it, threat of existence is what the defence can counter, that is. threats that Denmark will lose its independence and freedom, that Danish territory will be affected by terrorist attacks or attacks by foreign states. That is where the defense can be used and not to conduct ideological campaigns around.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160558	Then it's just there, the chain jumps off, because the Danish People's Party doesn't think there's any external threat from, for example. Russia, right? So where's the threat? I ask. I can then understand that the Danish People's Party believes that Islamism is a threat to our freedom, and again I lack answers to how the Danish People's Party will fight Islamism through the military. They say you want to fight Islamic State. Yes, this is the conventional war that is currently taking place in Iraq; that is absolutely right, but that does not mean that the Islamic State is being combated for that reason. On the contrary, that war means that the Islamic State strikes more in other ways, because what does an enemy do when under pressure? You take the war to other battlefields, in this case, by terror. And that's why the terrorist threat has been strengthened by this. I mean, Danish freedom has not become stronger, if I may say so, by the fact that we have waged these wars. Again, just to be able to return to the basic points here, I would like to say that this isn't about the purpose clause in the defence law. It is about a concrete discussion, about a concrete disagreement, about a concrete assessment of what are narrow Danish interests. And that is not something that will change a fool's note through this motion for a resolution. It's a clean blow to the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160725	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131160738	Thank you. From the Conservative People's Party we are largely in agreement with the way in which the Danish People's Party says they want to use the defence. We fully agree that the Danish defence must defend Denmark and Danish interests and primarily our area of interest. We also fully agree that we should not run around the world and missions for democracy and human rights and risk the lives of Danish soldiers for it. But neither do we. It is a myth and a strawman that the Danish People's Party builds up. The Danish People's Party has itself voted in favour of the wars that Denmark has participated in in recent times. Yet Mrs Marie Krarup now distance herself from Danish security policy and makes it sound as if the Danish Parliament is sending out Danish soldiers and risking their lives, and I quote here: to promote a certain ideology or form of government around the world. So that is not the case. When Denmark has been at war in recent years, there have been some concrete reasons for this. In relation to the Iraq War, it was about chemical weapons. In relation to Afghanistan, it was about terrorism, a very concrete threat which resulted in 3 000 people dying in the United States in a very concrete attack on one of our allies. That was why we went into those wars. It was not a desire to promote a certain ideology or form of government in these countries. When you then go to Mrs Marie Krarup on the blade as to when it is that Denmark has been involved in a war to promote human rights or certain forms of government around the world, I got the answer before the answer that it is about Mrs Marie Krarup wanting to prevent Denmark from helping to stop genocide. And it has a slightly different ring to it when you say that you want to stop a genocide than when you say that you want to go to war to promote certain human rights. To this I would say that we on the conservative side agree that we should not run around promoting forms of government and certain ideologies around the world, but we do not actually think that it has anything to do with ideology to prevent people from being killed because of their race or religion or what else can trigger genocide around the world. We just think that it should be above ideology to try to prevent genocide. One must think very carefully before going into missions where it is about preventing genocide around the world, but to write off the possibility of preventing genocide I think is a strange approach. We have had examples of military operations that may have created more chaos than they have brought peace to the world. There are also examples of failure to act that there have been genocides which could perhaps have been stopped by military force. I can't help it, for example. to think of Rwanda, where 800,000 people died, which could probably have stopped with a quite modest military effort on the part of the West. All in all, we are well satisfied with the wordings contained in the defence law. In fact, we believe that it is in Denmark's interest to promote peaceful development in the world. The wording of the defence law is that we must promote peaceful development in the world with respect for human rights. This does not mean that we are going to war with human rights as an independent objective; it means that we can go to war to promote peaceful development in the world, which must then take place with respect for human rights. And that's a pretty substantial difference. And I would like to say that you can go out there to promote peace in the world without respect for human rights, but that can mean, for example, killing a lot of people, and then there is peace and quiet, so they can no longer cause trouble, but that is of course not the kind of peace to be created in the world. So I think that if one agrees that it is a good thing that there is peace in the world, then one must also have a view on what kind of peace it should be, and there is an excellent wording as it stands now. So all in all we agree, I think, with the Danish People's Party when it comes to which missions we will vote for in the future, but I think that this debate is a great strawman, whom Mrs Marie Krarup has built up, which she then otherwise starts to burn down and tries to make the rest of us appear as if we are sending the Danish defence out to a lot of things that are not in Denmark's interest, and so we do not. In conclusion, I would also like to join with Mr Van der Klaauw in congratulating him on his excellent report. Holger K. Nielsen's criticism of the Danish People's Party's defence policy. It is very difficult to understand if the new position of the Danish People's Party is now that we should not contribute to missions around the world, but should stick close to our own vicinity, and at the same time the Danish People's Party does not believe that there is any threat to our vicinity. Then it is actually a little difficult to understand why the Danish People's Party believes that we should raise the defence budget. For Islamism in Denmark cannot be fought with the military. Islamism in Iraq can be fought with the military, because there is Islamic State that must be defeated, but if we are to stick to our own immediate area, yes, I do not think we can foresee that there will be major Islamic forces to be defeated by the military. And if you do not see Russia as a threat, it is actually a little difficult to understand the context of the Danish People's Party's policy. I would like the Danish People's Party to become wiser in relation to Russia and to realise that there is a problem in Eastern Europe at the moment that demands that we also have a defence that can defend our own country and support our allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161315	There is one person who would like to make a brief comment. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161319	There are absolutely plenty of problems in Eastern Europe, and it may well break out in a major war where we will need our defence, but if it does, it is probably because we are contributing to it ourselves. But, of course, we need a strong defence of the threats that may arise. Who had foreseen on 10 September 2001 that we would be fighting in Afghanistan shortly afterwards? There was a time when conservatism was about defending the nation state, defending the sovereign nation state. I can now understand that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of undermining sovereignty and is in favour of participating in military operations where, for the sake of various international rules, including the concept of genocide, we must attack another country. This is an entirely new development of conservatism, for which I would like to hear a defence. So now it is believed that freedom no longer comes from the self-determination of national unity, but now freedom comes from a human ideology. I find it difficult to understand and put together something that can make sense in a conservative programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161442	It is not an ideology to think that people should be prevented from being wiped out, that people should be killed, that women should be mass raped. And to prevent some from trying to eradicate certain groups of people around the world is not an ideology. It is simply above ideology that people want to prevent genocide. And I have to say that the criticism made here by Mrs Marie Krarup could be directed at the Americans in the Second World War, how unpatriotic of them to interfere in European affairs and try to prevent genocide in Europe; how unconservative and unpatriotic it was to enter that war. I think it is extreme and I think we should be careful, even when we are conservative, that we do not cultivate the extreme and see it as an end in ourselves, that we should be as outrated as possible, and I feel that Mrs Krarup is a little bit in these debates on defence policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161542	I think it is inconceivable that the defence rapporteur cannot understand that Danish defence cannot promote good conditions all over the world. That simply cannot be done. If you do that, you will fail your own task. That's what I was trying to express with the picture of a marriage: if you want to make every woman in the world happy, it might be that your own wife got a little unhappy. I would also like to say that the United States participated in the Second World War because they were attacked, and thank God they took part on our side, and we should be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161623	So if the United States had not been attacked, it would be right that they had stayed out of World War II, then we must deduce from it. And it's a rationale that I don't agree with. I know that it may seem violent to start discussing World War II, but that is what this is all about. It is about defence and security policy and how to act in different situations. And signing off that you should help some of your allies, or that you want to prevent genocide around the world, I think is very extreme. Of course it is not right when it is interpreted here, as if the Conservative People's Party and I did not understand that we cannot create peace everywhere in the world and that we cannot interfere in everything. We don't. We are well aware of this. Surely one should be ill-advised if one did not understand that we cannot bring peace to all parts of the world. We know our limitations. We must take action where we have the prospect of a positive outcome. And I also agree that we should be more reluctant to send soldiers into military operations than we have been in recent years and that there should be better planning. But I think what the Danish People's Party is saying here is very extreme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161724	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Krarup, to round off.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131161743	Thank you. I have asked for the floor again in order to put an end to these misunderstandings that have arisen along the way, where there are alleged strange things, such as that the Left believes that the Danish People's Party is proposing that you should now only fight at the border. We don't. That is the sole purpose we are talking about. If the purpose is not to defend Denmark, Danish soldiers should not contribute, but you can defend Denmark in Iraq • We do so right now • We have also done so in Afghanistan. Therefore, it is not a matter of stopping at the Danish vicinity. One has to define what Denmark's core interests are in order to be able to say what the Danish defence can be used for. And I believe that it is part of the social contract that we contribute to maintaining Denmark as a sovereign, independent country. That is what I believe we can be allowed to use the defence for. That is what our soldiers can be asked to risk their lives for. It is not part of the normal social contract that we should go out and prevent genocide in Rwanda or participate in raising women's rights in some distant country. That's noble purpose. It would be beautiful and lovely if you could do it. But the reality is very often that when you meddle to do something good, it gets much worse. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. But should our soldiers die for good intentions? I'm too much of a soldier's mother for that. I've had a son at war, and you think violently about what they do when they're deployed. We, as politicians in parliament, cannot allow ourselves to do so. We cannot afford to send the soldiers of the country to sons, fathers and daughters and mothers, as today it is also out and risk their lives if it is not because it is Denmark's existence that is threatened. I believe that this has already happened. I think that's too bad. I want to prevent that from happening in the future. And in order to prevent this, I believe that we must change the paragraph of purpose, as we have proposed here in this resolution. However, I would like to clear up all the misunderstandings that this means that we will not contribute a hundred percent to NATO. Of course we will. And, of course, we would also like to participate in operations outside our vicinity. Denmark must have a strong defence. We must be prepared for the various threats that may arise in the future. And because we have a foreign policy analysis right now that says that Russia does not have an active attack plan against Denmark, that does not mean that there cannot be all kinds of threats. There may be, for example: A war arises by mistake, where we suddenly have to fight against, for example. Russia. It's quite possible. But other threats may also arise in Denmark's vicinity or far from Denmark. Therefore, Denmark must always have a strong defence. But this is another debate which does not really belong to this resolution. For this resolution is about the purpose, and there I believe that in 1993 this new legislation went beyond the social contract of reason or the contract with soldiers' mothers, which is in the air when you live in a free country, namely that we must of course ask the soldiers to risk their lives when they fight for Denmark's freedom, but not when they fight for all sorts of other matters that can be very sweet, good and nice. It's just not Denmark's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162147	There are a few brief comments to make, so the rapporteur must remain in his place. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162156	I think it is violent to listen to the fact that, for example, in order to prevent genocide, it is sweet. I think it is very scoffing to hundreds of thousands of people who can be killed in genocide around the world, among others. Syria and elsewhere around the world where it has happened during history. I would like to ask two questions. Firstly, I would like to ask about the wording of the Danish People's Party in the resolution. Why doesn't it say anything about safeguarding Denmark's interests? This applies, for example, to piracy on the Somali coast. It is not about Denmark being threatened or our integrity being threatened. It's about defending Danish interests with our defense. Is it wrong according to the Danish People's Party? Secondly, I would like to ask what has happened in Eastern Europe, where Russia has invaded two countries. What makes the Danish People's Party think that it is completely out of the question that it will happen again? Where are the Baltics wrong when they are shaking their pants at the moment because of the threat Russia poses to them? Where is Mrs Marie Krarup wiser than anyone else in the whole Baltic region?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162302	I'm not smarter than anyone. I'm just reading the analyses that are available. There is a multitude of sensible analyses that say that it is very difficult to see the overall aggressive attack plan from the Russian side, perhaps because it is not there. But what you see is, of course, a wide range of situations where different conflicts arise. The question is whether the best way to counter them is to say that we are now dealing with the new Germany in the 30s. I hear many people say that, and we think that is destabilising to say. You have to look at reality as it is. There are a multitude of analyses available. I can, for example. Recommend the Shuuld We Fear Russia? By Dmitry Trenin, who has just been published and has a very balanced view of it. The motion for a resolution states that it has something to do with Danish interests. That's the addition to section 6. Of course, that's what I'm talking about. So may I say that when a Danish ship is attacked in the Gulf of Aden, it is Denmark. It's a piece of Denmark. Of course, defending Danish ships against piracy is also the defence of Danish interests. It is a defence of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162422	Does Mrs Marie Krarup see Russia as a threat to the Baltic, for example? Or is it solely the EU's fault that there is a conflict with Russia? And I am not interested in hearing all sorts of things about other threats which, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, are greater. We agree that there is also an Islamic threat. But I just want to know in concrete terms about Russia: does Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party, see Russia as a threat to peace in Eastern Europe and thus to our allies in NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162453	A war can happen by mistake. This is certainly what the situation is right now, when it is very tense. That's why we should get that level of tension down. The level of tension is very high because we support the Western Ukrainian agenda in Ukraine and have been doing so for a few years, which is, of course, very much across both East Ukraine and Russia. Unfortunately, this means that the European Union and NATO are helping to build a climate of tension which makes it extremely dangerous for the Baltics at the moment. So yes, there is a threat; it may explode; but we could also dismantle the threat if we wanted it. But that has nothing to do with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162538	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162541	I think it has been quite clear that NATO is not something that will be downgraded by the Danish People's Party. But if it is not just words, the proposal here, then it is surely a downgrade of Denmark's commitment to UN efforts. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162600	It could be very much in peace-building missions, in other words where military action is taken and peace is created. "Peacekeeping is a bit different here you are put into a guard situation where there is usually a much lower level of threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162620	In fact, I would like to acknowledge the level of tension in which, from the point of view of several countries and from the point of view of several alliances, we are perhaps currently arming up to an extent which will make the conflict in Russia even more inflamed than it should be. Is the United Nations not just one of the fora where this tension could be derived, so that something constructive can be done about that tension? It could also be the OSCE, it could be many other forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162646	I do not agree with the rapporteur that armaments are a threat in themselves. In many cases, armaments can provide security because they provide a balance. But right now, our alliance is the world's strongest. Well, if that's the Russian threat you're thinking of, then we're 10-12 times stronger, so it would be very strange if the Russians attacked. That would be suicide. However, I agree that the UN is contributing to security with the Security Council. After all, it is excellent that we have the United Nations as an arena, where we can exchange positions and where we can talk closely. It's really an incredibly good invention. In addition, there are many other things with the United Nations that I would like to question, precisely because the United Nations has this ideology that there is only peace when human rights are respected. I do not think that is right, because peace is the absence of war.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162742	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor, and then the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162802	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party; a group of 89: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Aleqa Hammond (UFG), Tjóðveldi and Javnadarflokkurin. The groups have appointed the following members: 1. Ole Pilgaard Andersen (designated by DF) 2. Henrik Høegh (designated by V) 3. Philip Hahn-Petersen (designated by ALT) 4. Peter Thyssen (appointed by RV) As alternate members of: 1. Per Nørhave (designated by DF) 2. Flemming Damgaard Larsen (appointed by V) 3. Louisa Bisgaard (appointed by ALT) 4. Jan Woollhead (appointed by RV) Notice of who has been chosen according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131162928	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party; a group of 89: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Aleqa Hammond (UFG), Tjóðveldi and Javnadarflokkurin. The groups have appointed the following members: 1. Knud Mathiesen (designated by DF) 2. Jens Vibjerg (designated by V) 3. Torben Hansen (appointed by S) 4. Pelle Andersen-Harild (appointed by EL) As alternate members of: 1. Per Nørhave (designated by DF) 2. Birgitte Josefsen (appointed by V) 3. Marie Strong (appointed by S) 4. Maria Temponeras (appointed by EL) Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170131163040	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, February 1, 2017 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
