ParlaMint-DK_20170404130012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules on the payment of the tax-free early retirement premium). Karsten Hønge (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of child poverty). Flemming Møller Mortensen (S) and Julie Skovsby (S): Enquiry no. F 51 (Will the Minister explain whether the Government will take steps to recognise the Danish State's responsibility for the thalidomide scandal and to compensate the current Danish thalidomide victims on the basis that, at the beginning of the 1960s, the Danish health authorities concealed the damage to the general public for a period of time, which led to the birth of a number of children as a result of their mother's ingestion of thalidomide with birth defects which might have been avoided?). Mattia Tesfaye (S), Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Finn Sørensen (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Request no. F 52 (The joint action against social dumping has now been in operation for five years, and will the Minister therefore comment on the preliminary experience and present the Government's reflections on this matter in the future?). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Request no. F 53 (What can the Minister say about the upcoming agreement between Danske Regions and the government about the region's economy for 2018 etc.?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 145 is referred directly to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? The Financial Committee has issued a report and a recommendation on the report on the state accounts for the financial year 2015. B 141). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404130151	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 65 by Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen (S), Bent Bøgsted (DF), Klaus Markussen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 65 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 64 of Christian Juhl (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404130321	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 66 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Mattias Tesfaye (S), Klaus Markussen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 20 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 66 adopted. After that, the draft adopted by the Committee of the Regions No 1 was adopted. V 67 by Finn Sørensen (EL) and V 68 by Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404130434	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404130453	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? Yes, now the vote is over. 88 voted in favour and 8 voted against. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Has anyone had any problems with the vote? Yeah, I could almost figure that out. Let's do it one more time. Let's try again and see if the system works. We're gonna take a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404131154	We are very unsure when the system can start working again, so we are going to do so in the good old-fashioned way of getting up. But we're gonna have to get the Secretaries, so we've got it under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404131612	Then I think we can start the meeting again. I think our agents are ready, and I'll start over on Bill No. L 76. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404131637	Those who can vote in favour, please stand up. I can say that I'm from a time when you did it all the time, and nobody took pictures of it when you did it. That was before the camera was invented). That was before the Boer War. You can sit back. Those who can vote against are asked to stand up. You can sit back, it's registered. Those who do not vote for or against are asked to stand up. No one will vote for or against. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. 3, specified manner).
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132132	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132204	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of Henning Hyllested (EL), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. in favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132231	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132240	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132308	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132329	I would just like to brief you on the alternative decision that we took today at our group meeting. L 131 is about the construction of a new National Natural History Museum. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we support the construction. The aim is to have a comprehensive Natural History Museum to strengthen interdisciplinary dissemination in the field of science. We believe that both the building and the project will be really, really good and a trademark for Copenhagen and Denmark. The State and the KU agreed in 2006 to build a new National Natural History Museum. The project is the result of an idea competition in 2009 and a design contest in 2012. In the summer of 2016, the citizens' representation in Copenhagen made a local plan. Nevertheless, the government is putting forward a construction law in the winter of 2016. In other words, the government has plenty of time to inform the citizens' representation of this decision. As the citizens' representation makes the local plan, they do so on the basis of the knowledge that there will be a normal consultation process and a normal right of appeal with a deadline of 8 weeks. It then turns out that there will not be according to the new construction law. So we have weighted the democratic involvement against the construction law and we have to vote against the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132510	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132518	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132545	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132614	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [to the contrary, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132642	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132702	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132735	I'm gonna wait a minute until people get out so we can hear what we're saying. I think we can move on now. The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404132908	Thank you. This is, after all, one of the legislative proposals which are periodically encountered in the field of taxation, where there are a great many different elements pooled together in a single legislative proposal. There are some different practical reasons why they are brought together in one law, and we are also OK with them being treated like this. On the other hand, we also have proposals that can be divided whenever someone wants, and we would like to have them in this context, but I will come back to that. Firstly, it is a question of adapting the electricity cartridge system so that non-VAT-registered persons can avail themselves of the system. This should be of particular benefit to general housing associations. The fact that this electric cartridge system comes to the surface in the bill also causes Danish District Heat to give some consultation answers, which lead to a further discussion of the scheme and other adjustments. We will certainly come back to this in other legislation, but immediately we think it is good action. There is also the question of the obligation to pay for bailiffs and authorised auctioneers when foreclosure sales are carried out and how VAT obligations should be in this respect. After all, this is a proposal which will reduce the accidental loss of VAT when it is ensured that it is they who are responsible for the auction that will have to pay VAT afterwards and not the actual seller. In a situation of foreclosure, one can imagine that this could mean that the state is missing out on the money it should have had. Moreover, we are quite concerned about reducing the loss of tax revenue, as can be seen in the recent proposal that we as a party have made, and here we are taking a step towards reducing the loss of tax revenue. It is not a big contribution, but it is a step in the right direction. There is a legal step forward in the point about the refund of registration fees, where today, in the case of banal errors, there is a risk of having to pay double registration fees when one has to correct such an error, and the adjustment in question here, where more general conditions can trigger repayment without a new registration fee, is very positive for us. Another proposal in the same ball street to counteract losses for the state and unnecessarily high prices for export and import companies under the guarantee system for potential customs debts is also contained in the proposal, and we can support that too. Then there are a number of errors that need to be corrected, and there are some different legal things that need to be changed. There is always reason to argue that there seem to be so many errors in the legislation that it is then necessary to go in and correct them. Of course, we must do so, but they should not have arisen at all in the first place. One of the errors that are being corrected is that Igu students who have been taxed on their transport allowance should not be doing so anymore, and we think that is very positive as well. So all these elements we can support, and we really want to help give them a fairly smooth passage through the Folketing. But there is also the question of the transport allowance for air commuters. It is therefore the case that the tax minister has put forward something different and more in perspective from what the bill says, and so we would ask for it to be distinguished and to give that element of the bill its own more thorough consideration. This will also mean that it will actually be possible to consult the commuter associations and others, which this affects, what has not happened, in connection with the fact that the element of the transport allowance for air commuters has been put into this vast collection of many different proposals. So that is one of the things we would like to look at in the committee procedure: firstly, to have it split up, and secondly, to have a closer look at this issue of the air commuters, which I foresee will take a little longer than the others to get through Parliament. My good colleague Bjarne Laustsen is here, and I have noticed TV 2/Nord and the coverage of the NORDJYSke Stiftstidende, and that is something that concerns people a lot, for example. North Jutland. Similarly, the commuter association in the area is simply very unhappy with what is being proposed here, and it would rather be free. Therefore, I think we owe it to ourselves to take a slightly more thorough look at the element of the bill than what is immediately being proposed, when you put these otherwise relatively uncontroversial things together in a bill to get them through the Folketing. So I hope that the committee will, by the way, help to make that division. We can support this series of elements that I have mentioned, and we can also support an improvement on the deduction of air commuters, but question whether this is the right solution that has been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133357	Thank you. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133404	Thank you. Here we are dealing with L 182, which has to be said to be a bit of a joint legislative proposal, as it contains six different measures which have little to do with each other. It's okay, too. for us, as many of the amendments are quite small and therefore it would not make sense to deal with them in independent legislative proposals, but it also means that I will not go into detail with all of them here in my rapporteur's speech. However, the draft general law presents the challenge of what to do if there are individual elements that cannot be supported as a party, as this is the case, but I will come back to that. The first point concerns the adjustment of the electricity cartridge system so that non-VAT-registered heat producers can also benefit from the scheme. Today it is the case that only VAT-registered companies can use the scheme and it is now changed to allow non-VAT-registered companies to use it, and it supports DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133515	Thank you to the rapporteur. Anything else? Yeah, you gotta be allowed to do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133524	Yeah. The second proposal in the draft law is that the court and authorised auctioneers be made liable for VAT in connection with foreclosure sales, a change that DF can support, as today there is too much risk that the seller will not settle its VAT. The seller's property has just been foreclosed to pay his bills. It is a bit of a derogation from the normal principle we have here in Denmark, where it is the seller who settles VAT to the state, but we think it makes good sense here. The third proposal is that, if there have been obvious defects in the registration, the variable registration fee may be reimbursed. We support that too. The fourth proposal concerns a change in the transport allowance for air commuters so that they are more equal to other commuters. It is a question of allowing the air commuters to choose between the transport allowance for actual, documented costs of air tickets or the transport allowance for normal driving. I wonder why we should have that option. Why should the air commuters be allowed to get a deduction as if they were driving a car? If they wanted that deduction, they could take the car. It would not make sense to reverse the problem, i.e. to grant a tax credit for driving, on the basis of having taken a scheduled flight. So we want to look at this in committee so that we can have more clarity as to whether it is no more logical that air commuters can be deducted from the fact that you can be a commuter rather than a commuter by car. In committee we also want to see whether we can limit the costs of EU citizens who receive transport allowances for transport in Denmark. We see the deduction as a tool for increasing mobility in the Danish labour market and not for paying foreigners to come to Denmark and work. There is also a proposal to exclude companies that do not pay VAT and customs duties from participating in SKAT's guarantee scheme for potential customs debts. The proposal can be supported by DF. The last proposal concerns the introduction of a tax exemption for transport allowances paid to refugees in connection with basic integration training. This can be done through the Igu training programme. In DF, we are opposed to the establishment of basic integration training at all, and we are also voting against that law. We are therefore, of course, also voting against the granting of tax-free transport allowances for transport to the so-called basic integration training. Overall, there are points we can support and some we need to look at. We need to find out whether we want the bill to be shared or whether we can possibly write our way out of it in the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133850	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404133855	Thank you. We are dealing first with a legislative proposal which brings together minor but necessary adjustments in the area of taxation. Overall, however, the adjustments have in common to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens and companies, and this is an important task. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to review some of the elements. One of the elements, as others have also mentioned, is that it has so far been the case that if there has been a typo in the registration, one has still had to pay VAT on the registration. And that, of course, is problematic, because then you have to pay twice as much, which is why you no longer have to do it by typing. The draft law also means the amendment that, among other things: They will be entrusted with the task of paying VAT on foreclosures to SKAT so that the State does not miss the proceeds. And in order to ensure that regular companies do not have to pay any more to participate in SKAT's security arrangements, it is proposed that it is possible to exclude companies that do not pay their customs debts. And we think that is very positive too. The Socialist rapporteur also mentioned the electric cartridge system, which is being changed so that non-VAT-registered heat producers also have access to the electric cartridge system. And then the bill picks up a mistake in the implementation of the tripartite agreement from the labour market integration of March 2016. Basically, we think this is a good legislative proposal, and the Left can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134019	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134035	Several rapporteurs have already examined the individual parts of the bill. I would particularly like to highlight the basis for calculating the transport allowance for air commuters. Because the draft law will now make it possible to choose between a mileage rate or the actual cost, and it will, of course, be possible for a number of air commuters, who then switch to the mileage rate, to have a substantial increase in the deduction. And we live in a time of climate change; we live in a time when we have to switch to modes of transport that use less energy, which pollute less, which does not create devastating climate change, so we find it very difficult to see that here we have to go in and give an incentive to take a more polluting mode of transport. So that is at least something we are very sceptical about, I can say calmly, and we also want to say, in line with the Socialist rapporteur, that we will at least split up this proposal so that we have an opportunity to discuss this particular proposal separately and in detail. In relation to the other proposals in the draft law, we are in favour. We may have just a few suggestions in relation to the electric cartridge system and the energy friendliness of that technology. But that is something we think of as being some detail, some more technical issues. So from the outset, it is only the basis for calculating the transport allowance that we are sceptical about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134218	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134229	Thank you for that, President. As others have said, this bill is such a potpourri of various sensible initiatives. The bill makes it possible to recover registration fee if there has been a typographical error in registration; that is common sense. The draft law also ensures that in future the right to receive VAT in connection with foreclosures will be given the task of paying VAT; that is also sensible. Then there is the question that import companies today have the opportunity to avail themselves of the security system. This includes paying for this scheme, and then there is joint liability. There may be good reasons why some companies may not be able to pay the customs duties they owe, and so they are jointly and severally liable for it. But, of course, it is reasonable that companies which deliberately do not pay customs duties can be excluded from the system that cannot be included in it. That is also sensible. This will therefore be the case in the future, and that is, of course, a sensible thing. There are various other elements of this bill that we can support. We may also think that the issue of the air commuter system is something that needs to be considered, but the Minister of Taxation can of course comment on that. But we can support the bill, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134426	Thank you. There has been an excellent review, among other things. by the Social Democrat rapporteur, and we very much support the whole legislative proposal. These are sensible changes. We would then like to see it split up so that, if nothing else, the air commuter scheme is examined. We do not yet know whether we will vote for or against if it were separated. The most important thing for us is that it will not be too lucrative a system that goes beyond real expenditure. On the other hand, it is also very important that we ensure that those who live on Bornholm or elsewhere in the country, for example, and who need to be able to fly and be part of cohesion, should not be unduly offended on that front. So let us divide it up and we can at least vote in favour of the rest of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134510	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134516	In line with almost all the other rapporteurs, we can also support all parts of this bill, but maybe it's a good idea to have a more thorough discussion on this extra allowance for air commuters. There will be green parts of my party that will say that there may not be any reason to help air passengers specifically in relation to those who use other forms of transport or to help them more than they do today, since this is not exactly a climate-friendly mode of transport. But there will of course also be parts that have a look at the importance of parts of Denmark other than the same metropolitan area in terms of being able to get back and forth there. We're gonna take a look at this travel method, and who it is we're actually gonna benefit and not benefit by raising this deduction. Then we will finally take a position on that part of it, which is why we will also be able to support the idea that we might consider dividing up the bill, as we can support the rest without further ado.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134609	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134621	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have explained some of it, and it is once again a good mix of different things. Several points seem at least at first glance to be relatively reasonable. However, I would certainly like to mention the transport allowance, where commuters are to be treated in the same way as commuters, for example. car or train. There we have the same concern that I also hear from the Enhedslisten and from the Radicals, namely what this will mean in relation to climate footprints. But this is a dilemma, because if our country is to be connected, there are commuters, including myself and the tax minister and many others from North Jutland, who will very much take the plane • at least until we get an effective timetable on the train • and this also applies to people who live on Bornholm and elsewhere. So this is a dilemma, and in relation to some of the revenue from other parts of this bill, I have understood the proposal so that it has to pay one to one in order to grant transport allowances to air commuters. But in order for us to be able to support that part of it, we certainly need some clear answers as to what this will mean for CO2 The other thing we will be asking some questions about during the committee procedure is the electric cartridge system. However, we support the remaining points, so it may be that during the committee procedure we will have to ask for the legislative proposal to be split up. For one half, like something very low-tech, I think most of us agree with, but just as far as the issue of air commuters is concerned, there are two considerations that go a little against each other, and that is why I would also like to support the comments made by the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134836	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404134842	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have given a thorough examination, I think, of all the elements contained in the proposal. But it is true that this is a legislative proposal which deals with a great many minor shortcomings, which this bill is trying to correct. Overall, I believe that what is important to say is that these proposals are primarily aimed at ensuring that there is a better focus on citizens' needs and legal certainty and at reducing the risk of losses for the State. If I am going to mention a few of the points in the draft law, I would like to mention this electric cartridge scheme. I think it is very positive that we are now getting non-VAT-registered heat producers into the scheme. Then it has been mentioned here with air commuters, and there we are open to looking at whether it should be done differently. However, we can discuss this further. The last thing I want to mention is the adjustment of the variable registration fee, in other words, where, if there has been a manifest error, you will be able to recover your tax. I think that is very positive, because it is quite unreasonable if you are to pay for it. And that is the kind of thing that can help to increase the sense of legal certainty. All in all, however, a very good proposal with a lot of good and necessary changes that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135000	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135004	I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. The draft law, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, brings together a number of elements in which the overall objective is to ensure the needs of citizens and businesses and legal certainty. One of the elements that I would like to highlight here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament is that the bill will allow us to pay tax once a typo has occurred in connection with a registration. It is not fair to have to pay a tax because of a typo. This is one of the areas where we need a little more common sense into legislation. Mistakes have been made, including among ordinary citizens, local authorities and regions and the state, and the legislation we have had so far has not left much room to correct such a mistake in the registration system. We now have the opportunity to do so, and it will be easier to recover a tax when a mistake has been made. At the same time, the draft law reduces the State's risk of loss of VAT on foreclosures. From now on the task will be to pay VAT on foreclosures to SKAT; that is good reason for the authorities to help each other so that the Treasury does not miss VAT. Then there is the amendment to the SKAT guarantee scheme that a number of companies use when they want to provide security for potential customs debts. This means that a certain amount of control is being exercised over the undertakings participating in the scheme. It is important that the focus is on the regular companies, i.e. those who comply with the rules, paying their debts to the tax administration. This ensures that they do not have to pay any more to participate in the scheme simply because there are other companies that do not pay their debts. In addition, there is a section in the draft law on air commuters, which has also been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs, and I would like to say two things to that effect: of course, one is climate concerns, and of course one can have them. I think that if you look at the methods of inventory, it depends a little on which aircraft are flown, how crowded the plane is and other things, and how poor airplanes are as a mode of transport versus other modes of transport. If you compare a new, modern aircraft with a limited fuel consumption and a reduced CO2 then I do not think that the discussion about modes of transport is so black and white. The second one is very important to me not only because I am a North Jutlander and have been commuting for many years, but because there are a number of areas of our country, for example. if you are going to live in Sønderborg, in West Jutland, in Aalborg or on Bornholm, where the plane is the only real mode of transport. It is not an option to drive back and forth and at the same time have a well-functioning family life or a life next to your workplace. That is why I believe, as a tax minister and as a politician, that we must ensure good conditions for people commuting, even for those who really only have the opportunity to commute by air. I have then tried to take a step in the right direction with this bill, and part of the additional revenue from the bill will then be spent on improving the system for air commuters. It's about a small million dollars. But when I take down the debate in this Chamber and also the dialogue I have had with, among other things. I can say that the solution that is here is not in demand, and that part of the bill will therefore also be withdrawn. Then we can come back to it at a later date. But I take down the reception that has been in the Chamber today and the dialogue that I have had since we tabled the legislative proposal, because what lies in it is not really requested by anyone; on the contrary, it is problematical. That is why it is my starting point that that part will be drawn. So I have to put that to the rapporteurs and then we will have to work on a better solution. It is, of course, a solution that needs to be funded, and it is also important for me to ensure that we comply with the EU rules that apply. If we are to improve the conditions for air commuters, we must be aware that we cannot just differentiate between those who are called domestic air commuters; the rules we set up will also apply to people who commute out of the country, in some cases also those who commute very far out of the country, and it may be difficult to find the good solution. However, I note that the solution here is not commended by any side, either by the Folketing or by the commuters it should actually take into account. Therefore, it is my intention to draw that part of the bill and work on a better solution. Finally, the draft law also contains a number of technical corrections, including: the approximation of the electricity cartridge scheme, which means that non-VAT-registered companies can continue to benefit from the tax reduction. All in all, the draft law contains a number of good and necessary changes that will benefit citizens and business. I would like to thank you for the reception it has received and look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135533	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135536	Thank you. Thanks for the commitment here at the end and for it coming. But that wasn't it, sir. Jesper Petersen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, proposed. It was that the bill was shared. Because he wanted to try to help the tax minister in fulfilling the promise he made to the North Jutland commuters and to the undersigned, but it may not be that important in this matter. But the thing is, sir... Kristian Jensen as then tax minister, who would try to help the Bornholmers by taking some money from the northern Jutlanders and giving to the Bornholmers. That project has not succeeded very well, and that is why the current tax minister has promised to rectify it. That is why I think it is essential that we continue to work to find a solution, and I am very surprised that people to whom this bill relates have not been heard before. Perhaps a more qualified commandment could have been made. But I now understand that the tax minister will come up with a proposal that will correct the miser from 2009, I think it was so that there will be consistency so that the air commuters are treated like all sorts of others who have to transport themselves to work. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135639	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135641	No, that is not quite understood. First of all, I have not promised that I will restore the legal state from 2009. One might wish to do so, and I think that the airline commuters have not been treated fairly by the tax administration. I'm sorry, sir. Bjarne Laustsen's colleagues, who sat in government and sat in the Treasury for the four years of government power, did not get anything done about it. But you didn't. I'm sure there were other things on the wallpaper too. That's the way it is. The commitment I can give and have made is that I would like to look at how we can improve the conditions. This is a step in the right direction. That's how I've seen it. It does not punish anyone, it gives a freedom of choice that will favour some air commuters. The message I have received, as well as the message in the Chamber today, is that that solution is not in demand, and then you have to go back and think about what you can do. And I would like to make that commitment that I go back and consider what we can do. But then, at least, no legislation can be promised in this Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135743	Thank you, and so it's again, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135747	Thank you very much, President. Now the point is that I know that the Social Democrats have not promised to roll back or forward, but the current Minister for Taxation has. And then it was the case that we could not do anything about it, because there was a trial going on, which the Minister is also aware of, and we usually do not interfere with that. But now there is a golden opportunity to change it. There were some of the rapporteurs who said that there was a need to discriminate on how to get to work. I think it was in 1994 that we made a principle that said that it did not matter how to transport. I think I've said on TV 2 Nord that if you ride or drive a red Puch Maxi with green Arlaskasse on the back, then the deduction is granted. All you have to do is pull out 20 miles and pay them yourself. That is why the question is: why should air commuters be treated differently from anyone else who has to go to work and do their work far away from home?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135837	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135840	After all, this was the legal situation that arose in 2009, which I think the then Minister of Taxation was not aware of. Because they tried, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen also said to help some Bornholmers. Then it had a knock-on effect for among others. the North Jutland commuters and people commuting to Sønderborg and a number of other places. It has become the legal state and it has been there for a number of years, even while there have been a large number of red tax ministers who did not have it on their wish list to solve the problem. I find myself in a situation where, if I have to roll it back, I have to get some funding, including something that is considerably bigger than what is in this legislative proposal. It hasn't been possible until now. It may be that we can agree on something forward. I would like to work together to find a solution here. But it must be a solution which is also fair, both in relation to the people commuting in Denmark and the taxpayers who have to pay for that improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135934	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404135937	Thank you, President. I would actually like to pay tribute to the tax minister for listening to the criticism. The point with air commuters was precisely one of the points that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said we should have looked into in committee. But thank you to the Minister for picking it out. The Danish People's Party will of course actively go in and see if there are any solutions, and find out how it can be solved if there are problems. But it was our opinion that this proposal was not so good. That is why we would have looked at it in committee. Now the Minister is taking it out, and we will, of course, take an active part in the committee and see what solutions we can then find.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140018	I'm in complete agreement with Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted and the Danish People's Party, and I am also pleased that there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament. Bjarne Laustsen also put forward a proposal recognising that there is a problem here and that we must then find a solution to that. I'm sorry I haven't been able to do this for the last 11⁄2 years and that this solution isn't good enough. But that's the way it is. If things are not good enough, you have to admit it, and then you have to take it back, and then you have to work to come up with an alternative. I am happy to do so with both the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and the other parties who want to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140056	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140058	Thank you. We just need to be aware that air commuters commuting back and forth, for example. from Aalborg to Copenhagen, and it may also be from Bornholm to Copenhagen, of course it has no other choice. To start saying that then you could drive down and then take the ferry from Aarhus to Sjællands Odde, is not good. Those means of transport are not true; that is not possible and therefore aircraft are the only option. These are a little special circumstances here, and we must of course take that into account, but thank you to the Minister for removing that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140129	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140131	I have nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140134	Then we've got Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140137	I am, of course, satisfied that the Minister of Taxation takes seriously, that there is a need to work more thoroughly to find a suitable solution, but I think it is suddenly going to be so drastic. The good thing about the fact that it has even been included in the bill here is that then the process could begin, and the tax minister himself says that it has been 11⁄2 years and no real clarification has been found. If you withdraw it completely from the bill instead of letting it get its own and give it its own treatment, who knows when we will see this again in the Folketing? So I really think that the Minister should do as we called for: let it be his own bill, and then we will take a slightly more thorough process on it, but then there is an obligation to clarify it before the summer break. We should not postpone until next year what we could solve this year, for the sake of commuters who are waiting for us to find clarification in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140234	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140236	When I put Parliament in a position to withdraw the proposal, it is because it is the clear message that I have received from them, namely that if this is what is on the table, it would be preferable not to legislate on it. I find it difficult before the summer break to see a programme for me, where you could come up with a completely new and alternative model. The challenge, of course, is that if you want to take care of the people who commute internally, you will also be able to take great advantage of those who commute foreign, and there are many more commuting foreign than commuting domestic. It may be difficult to defend spending many millions on some people commuting out of Denmark instead of between our parts of the country. Therefore, with the work I have done with the proposal, I find it hard to see that we can find a good solution on this side of the summer holiday if that is not what lies here. This does not mean that we will not find a solution, but it means that I find it difficult to see how things are going, and that is why it is my position to withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140343	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140345	I fully understand the balance that the Minister makes here. Of course, you have to take that into account and think through when you try to make a solution and accommodate the air commuters it is about, but you try to do something about what has been proposed now, in that you put a ceiling on these 400 km, and you have then adjusted something down, so there is only 25 per cent. Back up. I guess that's the kind of thing you could screw up. I imagine the Treasury has some preliminary work on it. If you said that, for example. If the Minister were 600 km or 800 km, could he say something about how many it would actually be and how much money it would be about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140427	Of course we can. We can easily do that in committee, but if we do so, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to move at that limit, that is where it will have a significant effect on revenue, and that money will have to be found somewhere. It is, of course, possible to find money, but it is as part of a financial law process. When I have chosen to include this part in the draft law, it is because there is a small extra revenue on some of the other elements that give a small extra income, and the small extra income we could then spend on favouring some air commuters. If you're going into a larger model, we're going to have to find some funding, and I think that's gonna be hard to find before we get to a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140505	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140528	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140532	Thank you. Now we have to deal with a proposal which, unfortunately, draws Denmark more socially wrong. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has given its hands on the fact that in future heirs will have to pay less in inheritance tax than all of us. Where the inheritance tax today is 15%, those who have the most in Danish society will in future avoid paying 5%. to the community. In social democracy, we believe that this is not fair and that it increases inequality. We can see that income inequality is rising and rising at home, but that wealth inequality is increasing even more, and now it is getting an extra point up. As DR uncovered on Sunday, the land and property of the ten largest landowners are estimated to be worth more than 5 billion. kr., and these are some of those who benefit from the proposal here. We hear from both the governing parties and the Danish People's Party that it is about jobs and that the company heirs must be gilded for the sake of society. However, the Ministry of Taxation's own figures state that the reduction in inheritance tax does not contribute to growth or jobs. It is black and white, and therefore it would actually be liberating if the government were to say what it is, namely that this is a step on the way to breaking up with the social model we have in Denmark, where we tax both income and wealth, where both those who get up early and do their jobs every day, and those who are born into a rich family, are taxed and contribute to the common welfare. We in the Social Democratic Party would like to maintain that model, but, as with the top tax and the progression of housing tax, we disagree with the government here. Of course, you have to choose to transfer your business to the next generation, but already today the inheritance tax can be paid over 15 years. That was one of the things we introduced when we were last in government. At the same time, it is very interesting that when the government and DF push the small business companies in front of them in defence of the reduction of the inheritance tax, we can see that the Crafts Council, which represents the small and medium-sized enterprises, back in 2013 under the heading that business wants reliefs other than the inheritance tax, said: "If we have 1.3 billion. kr. In terms of tax relief, we in the Crafts Council would clearly prefer to look at personal taxation. Lower taxes on labour income will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises most. It's gonna cost 1 billion. kr. a year to let company heirs loose cheaper in taxes. It is money that we would rather spend in our day care institutions, public schools or hospitals. We want to create good framework conditions for Danish companies, and we have just presented a growth initiative, "Growth that works," but lowering the inheritance tax is not the answer for us. Instead, we propose that it should be tax-free to transfer its business to a commercial fund, in return for the foundation's activities to be anchored in Denmark. This is to ensure long-term investment in jobs and new technology at home. Fondsje we have a good tradition for in Denmark, and some of the largest companies at home are fund-owned. Here, the inheritance tax reduction will actually provide the opposite incentive, namely to transfer to the next generation, even if it is not the best solution. In addition, the blue parties evidently forget that the inheritance tax in Denmark compared to the OECD is at the low end; Japan peaks with an inheritance tax of 55%, The UK is 40%, and the Netherlands is 20%. There is therefore no reason why we Danishs are fighting to be at the forefront of a race against the inheritance tax base. Basically, we in the Social Democratic Party disagree that more and more should be put on the narrow shoulders in Denmark, because it is now the case that the broad shoulders bear the best. That is why we are also opposed to the proposal, and we also say clearly that we will cancel the reduction in the inheritance tax if we come into government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404140933	Thank you. That's pure words for the money. These 300,000 employees are affected by generational changes over the next 10 years in family-owned companies. They must experience a capital drain in the company at the risk of the company moving abroad. It is pure and clear talk from the Social Democratic Party: let us get jobs out of Denmark. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether this is retroactive. I have heard that you want to roll this back, but can the rapporteur tell us whether this should be done retroactively, so that all those companies which, in good faith, in the meantime make a change of generation, will then have to be capital-killed at the risk of closing down? Can the rapporteur tell me about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141011	I can inform the rapporteur that, when social democracy is then spoken out, it is no longer clear talk anymore. Now the rapporteur from the Left says that we want jobs out of Denmark, and nothing is more remote to us. We have just presented a growth initiative called 'Growth that works', where we have a large number of proposals on how to create and maintain jobs in Denmark. But as the Treasury's own figures have established it was also what I had included in my speech that gives it here, precisely the reduction of inheritance tax, not jobs in Denmark. That is why, on the other hand, it is empty speech by the rapporteur of the Left when we continue to make that argument. So I don't give much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141053	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141054	It's vertically wrong information coming here. The answer referred to by the rapporteur states: "There is no immediate basis for a quantitative assessment of the dynamic effects on GDP and employment by exempting family-owned businesses from household and gift taxes. There is no justification for saying one thing or the other. But since there is no housing and gift tax in Sweden, it is not difficult to figure out that some of these companies can very easily move to Sweden if it is that we continue to have such a high level of housing and gift tax. If they move to Sweden, jobs are no longer in Denmark. Can the rapporteur confirm that? And the rapporteur has not answered whether this will be done retroactively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141126	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141128	In relation to the answer I am referring to, which comes from the Treasury itself, it says in black and white, and now I quote again: "The abolition of the residence and gift tax for family-owned companies is not estimated to have a significant effect on employment in the long term, as employment is determined in the medium term by the supply of labour and the functioning of the labour market, and the abolition of the inheritance and gift tax, as I said, has counterproductive effects on the supply of labour. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, So what the rapporteur is trying to say, namely that this is about jobs, is simply not right. Obviously it does not. It is more about ideology, that is to say, that those who have the most must pay less.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141206	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141210	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the rapporteur should also have some praise today. The rapporteur should be very praised for mentioning 10 companies out of the 23,000; these were the ten estates mentioned by the rapporteur. Then we just need the other 22.990 companies. I would like to ask the rapporteur if she does not recognise that there will be a great risk of not having proper inheritance tax rules in Denmark, as we can see in other countries, namely that a number of these companies then instead of a generational change to future generations in the same family and ownership group may be bought by a foreign capital fund which can then, in principle, lead values, know-how, expertise, Danish inventions etc. out of Denmark, i.e. Danish jobs out of Denmark, and then merge with companies located in other countries. I would like the rapporteur to confirm or contradict that. Then I would like to take a look now, when the rapporteur says that they would rather spend money on day care institutions and so on. Is it not true that the Social Democratic Party was actually the party that abolished the wealth tax in Denmark and thus actually gave tax advantages to the very richest?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141319	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141321	Well, first of all, with regard to the praise from the rapporteur, I would like to say that it is always nice to have, and what I am saying is actually quite correct. What I referred to was that Denmark's Radio had taken the trouble to examine on Sunday the consequences of such a proposal as the Danish Government and the Danish People's Party will now implement. There you can in the program among others. see that it will benefit some of those who have allerallermost in Denmark, and that is just factually correct. In relation to the issue of whether companies move abroad, I would say: No, and that is also why I say very clearly from the platform that we have put forward a growth initiative where what we want, and which we really hope that the Danish People's Party and other parties here in the Danish Parliament will support, is that we can make a scheme where it is tax-free to transfer it to a business loan fund because we know that it has great social value and that it can also be anchored both activities and jobs in Denmark. So that's our answer. And that is why it does not hold up when the Danish People's Party says that we are going to send the jobs out of the country; because we have presented what we would like to be able to anchor the jobs here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141426	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141428	I miss a concrete answer to who abolished the inheritance tax. I think yes, I actually know, so the rapporteur does not even have to reply to the fact that it was the Social Democratic Party under Nyrup that made an agreement with the Conservative People's Party to abolish the wealth tax in Denmark. I think it might be quite funny, given that the rapporteur is now standing here and saying that this is taking Denmark in the wrong direction. Social taxes have also been secured by the rapporteur's party, which has fallen from 25 per cent. 22 per cent. This gives a revenue of 4.5 billion. kr. So what kind of company has lurked on it? Is it the small Danish companies, or are they the big ones? I would like the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141511	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141512	In relation to the question of who has abolished it, I would say that the rapporteur said both property tax and inheritance tax, but I assume that the rapporteur insists precisely that this is property tax. It is because we have clearly said that we are opposed to what is being done here with the inheritance tax. However, the rapporteur points to a very central problem, namely that when we look around the world, we can see that we need to find a sensible balance in relation to the tax level in Denmark. What is just crucial is whether Denmark should contribute to a race towards the bottom where it will be the lowest tax rate we are going for. Is that what we have to compete on in Denmark? We in the Social Democratic Party do not think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141556	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141558	I think the rapporteur skips slightly over the fact that family-owned companies constitute the backbone of Danish business. You can make it up in many ways • whether it is every other company in Denmark that is family-owned, or whether it is eight out of ten or nine out of ten, I have seen different statements, but it is a significant part of the Danish business community. And then the Social Democrats choose to beat down on ten landowners. I really think that is evidence of the desire to distort this debate. There are tens of thousands of companies facing a generational change in which this is of great importance, and so I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it makes it easier for a company to invest and develop if you have to hand in a substantial part of its capital when the company changes owner and where nothing happens to the company in itself, but where the company is re-entered from the parent generation to the children. Does it make it easier for the company to invest when the company's capital is eroded because tax has to be paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141706	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141709	Well, we are kind of happy to have many family-owned companies in Denmark, and that's also why we always work for a good framework for our business community. Now we have also just presented this growth initiative that I have been talking about. And when the questioner says that we are hitting ten landowners in Denmark, I would say that it is actually because it was the example that DR used on Sunday. My acquaintance and the questioner must finally correct it if it is wrong that the information presented by the DR is correct, namely that it will benefit some of those who have the most. I cannot understand if it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that the questioner's heart beats so much about why it is not seen, for example. We are making a model where we are making a progression in it and where we are saying: those who have the most, i.e. the largest companies in Denmark, some of them with the largest fortunes, must continue to pay, and then we will have a progression in inheritance taxation, where small and medium-sized enterprises have to pay less. Why, then, is this not the model presented by the Left and the government? For example, the questioner could elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141808	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141809	I was not given much answer to the question of whether it makes it easier for a company to invest if you pay the tax you are doing today, which requires a large capital injection from the company. And I understand why the rapporteur will not respond to that. Of course, the rapporteur could also be a little more nuanced than DR and say that 75%. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, the revenue from this reduction in the taxation of generational change goes to small and medium-sized enterprises. It may be an unpleasant fact for the Social Democratic Party, but 75%. This is a matter for small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is of course easier to find ten noble landowners and then hang them out as if they are the only ones involved. The reality is that it is 75% that goes to small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me just quote a business owner who says about generational change: that is really, very much money, and that may mean that for a time you are forced not to invest in new machines or new jobs; alternatively you would be forced to sell out. Is it the business owner who has completely misunderstood the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141907	Well, as I also explained in my rapporteur's speech, the business community is very close to us in the social democracy, and that is also why, when we were in government, we listened to the companies who said that the need to have liquidity out of our pocket could be a challenge. That is why we made the system in which we said that we would be able to repay the inheritance tax over a long period, over 15 years. We even reduced interest rates in relation to doing so. This means, of course, that we do not find ourselves in the situation mentioned here by the rapporteur of the Left, and that is why we think that we are in the right place to ensure that we continue to have inheritance tax in Denmark. It is good for equality, and it is good for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141949	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404141950	I would actually like to start by thanking the rapporteur for saying that in the long term employment is determined by the supply of labour. And since we know that the Social Democratic Party will not be involved in labour supply reforms, we know that social democracy will not help to increase employment in Denmark in the long term. So thank you for that. Then I would like to make something quite clear, because I think it is a little unclear for those who might overhear this debate. This is about some capital remaining in a company. The rapporteur makes it sound like a lot of money is being drawn out for consumption. If you do, it will have to be taxed as before. But this is about the fact that instead of the money being passed over into the treasury, the money in the company is being invested in the company, because you have to do that in order to be competitive, that is. investments in new technology, new workflows, etc. What does it do? This increases productivity in companies and gives higher real wages to those working in the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142058	In relation to the issue of labour supply, I think it is probably something that we can have a long discussion about, but when the Social Democracy is where we are doing today, it is precisely because many labour supply reforms have been carried out, and we are not the only ones to say so, because several economists also agree with us that this is not really where we need to do more now. We need more, for example. to tackle upgrading, and that is also why we have presented an upgrading reform. So I think we will continue to disagree on that, in other words how to interpret it. But it is not because we do not want to create jobs in Denmark that have just been carried out a great many labour supply reforms. In relation to whether the money stays in the company, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party have said very clearly that what we want there to be an incentive is that you can transfer to fund ownership, and that is why we think it is wrong that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is now proposing that the greatest incentive should be that you transfer to the next generation, rather than being able to transfer to fund ownership. That is also why we say that we have a different view of what we could do in relation to, we can say that we hand over companies in a way that could give more value to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142210	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142212	But when the Social Democrats do not want to participate in new labour supply reforms, neither will the Social Democrats help to increase employment more than will happen. And there are no economists at least not mainstream economists who say that increased labour supply will not lead to increased employment. So it is quite clear: social democracy will not help to increase employment in Denmark further. Fine, that's fair enough. The second is also fine, because we can easily talk about making it tax-free to transfer to a fund, but why do we politicians have to decide whether a company should be transferred to a fund or whether you want to run the company further in the family? Why should these two things not be treated in the same way? Again: This is about some capital remaining in the company, and I am absolutely convinced that it is doing more good for society as a whole than the money being in the treasury. It already has very, very large resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142311	Yes, please. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142313	The rapporteur is aware that we do not agree on the need to increase employment. The rapporteur started by concluding that we did not want to increase employment, but we would like to do so, but there are also economists who agree with us and who say that labour supply reforms are not what is needed now. That is where we disagree. In relation to the second part, that it should be tax-free to transfer to a fund, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur says that we can talk about it. So far, at least, we have not received the positive reception from the other governing parties, but if the Liberal Alliance wants to help it to be tax-free to transfer to a commercial fund, we would very much like to talk about it. So I would just like to call for it to be the good thing that comes out of today, but it will not change the fact that we still believe that the reduction of inheritance tax will create more inequality and will not contribute to jobs in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142402	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142405	Thank you. I am a little sorry that the rapporteur has misunderstood this reply from the tax minister, because that is, unfortunately, the way I interpret it. However, I would like to ask directly whether the rapporteur agrees with the content of the reply from the Ministry where the Minister writes, and now I quote: "I welcome ensuring good conditions for generational change. This contributes, among other things, to: that ownership is held in Danish hands. In addition, a reduction in the tax on inheritance and gift can provide a basis for companies to have a stronger capital base when they are transferred to the next generations. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142444	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142445	What we also said when we were in government, and where the tax minister also answers, is that we would like to listen to the companies, also in relation to the quote that came from the rapporteur of the Left, namely the question of liquidity. After all, we introduced a grace scheme to make payments over, for example, 15 years. So we have listened to what is being said. But now there was talk of economists, and so a little was shot at the Social Democracy in relation to this, but we can just try to look at what Philipp Schröder, a researcher in economics at Aarhus University, says when he has to answer whether the reduction in inheritance tax is a good idea. He says, "I don't think so at first. Who says that a family-owned company cannot be sold at a later stage? And how does it boost growth if we do not get the optimal owner? It's just to take one example of an economist who doesn't agree with the government that this is the best tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142544	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142545	Then I will go to my next point and arrest the rapporteur's claim that there should be the answer to the fact that it has no effect on GDP, for the next thing that says is: as a starting point, housing and gift taxes can be seen in line with other taxes on capital income and, in that sense, act in the same way as for example. equity income tax that reduces the investor's return and thus reduces the incentive to invest. This implies, in isolation, that abolition will move towards a positive effect on GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142619	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142620	After all, the rapporteur has still not taken up the point in the reply from the Ministry of Taxation, which is precisely that this will not have a lasting effect on growth and employment. That is what we are left with, and it is also one of the points we have, but that is not the only reason why we do not think it is a good idea. But I think we can conclude that it does not provide growth and jobs, because that is what the note says. However, as I also said to the rapporteur's colleague from the Left, I wonder why, for example, if we are concerned with small and medium-sized enterprises, which I also had the opportunity to discuss with the rapporteur on Monday, we do not have a progressive inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142658	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142703	Will the Social Democrats in any government led by the Social Democrats, if they come to power at some point, roll back draft law L 183?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142722	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404142742	As a matter of principle, I think it is rather a pity that this draft law's theme and overall discussion are going to be ten estates. That is what has happened so far: ten estates. That is what has been the errand of social democracy: to make this a discussion about Danish landowners. I would like to make a service announcement there: We don't have 23,000 estates in Denmark; we don't have 23,000 manor houses; we don't have 23,000 LEGOs; we don't have 23,000 Danfosser or just what looks like. But I would say: if we had, for then there would have been more to use here in the Folketing, we would have had a bigger social cake. So, of course, we can say that's a little too bad. However, I would like to take as a starting point the other 22.990 companies, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are looking forward to having a significantly improved opportunity to ensure that the company stays in the hands of the individual family. They should not be tied by 15 years of giro cards from Denmark, I would like to say to the Social Democratic Party. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is a bad thing. We think it's a bad idea just to say: Well, we can just make all companies fund-owned, then all things are blessed. Where's the family? Where is the concern for families, the commitment that a family is comfortable with being entrepreneurs and running their own business as a family-owned company? It's in our DNA here in Denmark. We have been a progressive country. We are a country that likes to have trade. We are leading on many different international scenes in industry, and we are among other things. because of good entrepreneurship in Denmark. It is therefore a pity that the Social Democrats, like us, want to muddle everything by saying: ten estates. That was the rapporteur's speech and I think it is quite unfortunate. If we accept that we must retain these very high taxes which are imposed on companies, even if they do not distribute values to their owners, it is a pity. After all, we in the Danish People's Party agree that if you distribute assets, dividends and everything else to the owners of a company, they must then be taxed. But what it is about here, when you make a generational change on these 23,000 Danish companies, is that you leave the values in the company for the benefit and pleasure of the company and not least the company's many employees. There we can see from the figures that these 23,000 companies in Denmark that we are talking about have about 300,000 employees here in Denmark • employees at all. If you put it at risk, we in the Danish People's Party think it is a pity. We actually think it's a good thing that this embrace has finally been taken with a treasure that was stoned. And it was not skewed to the bad side, it was skewed to the good side, it might be said, because in our view the tax should only be expressed on the day you distribute the company's assets to the owner company behind it. So I would like to rid myself and others of the fact that this is going to be another debate about landowners or not landowners. Many of the people we're talking about with this bill are plumbers, carpenters, carpenters, carpenters, craftsmen, people who have shown commitment and who actually like to own and run their own independent family-owned business. Because you get more desire and motivation from running your own business than from becoming part of a fund. If all Danish companies become foundations, they are often bought up by capital funds, and then we get bigger and larger companies, and in the end only the state and trade unions are left to decide here in Denmark. And I know that the Social Democratic Party really wants that. There we in the Danish People's Party just want us to get rid of it. We're very happy with this bill. We're glad it's come through. We are actually proud that it was included in the 2016 Finance Act and we can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143207	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143212	What a svada. I would actually like to start by asking the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that this is also about landowners; that what the DR uncovered on Sunday is not wrong or, if so, the rapporteur must tell us about it. And then I find it strange when the rapporteur highlights small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. plumbers, master craftsmen, etc., that it does not make an impression when the Crafts Council says that they really do not need this inheritance tax reduction at all. They'd rather we spend the money on something else. Doesn't that make an impression? Why, then, are they not the ones the rapporteur is listening to? Why are they not those to whom the Danish People's Party listens instead of implementing this inheritance tax reduction? I think the rapporteur has yet to answer that question. Finally, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether, in the Danish People's Party, it is believed that there is more or less inequality in Denmark that it is now cheaper to transfer a company, that is, a fortune, to the next generation. Does it make Denmark more or less unequal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143314	It is true that there are probably things you would rather have if you played Christmas Eve like that, also over in the Crafts Council. One of the things they would like, at least, is to withdraw the circular which the then tax minister, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, performed overnight and, of course, changed the valuation rules applicable to family-owned companies. The council would much rather have, if it were Christmas Eve, but it isn't. Actually, we're just not until April. So I would like to say that the Social Democrats are using the arguments today that this is pulling Denmark wrong. What did the tax agreement in 2012 when financing business tax reliefs for 41⁄2 billion? kr. With the blessing of social democracy? What did the Social Democratic Party do? Yes, they financed the 2 billion. kr. by, among other things, to take from the projections in the budgets of municipalities and regions for 2013-14. Other tax agreements, which have also been implemented, have raised other taxes. We have looked at payroll fees, and we have even raised chocolate and sugar levies and everything else to finance various measures. That's the way it is. The Danish People's Party is not in favour of that part of it, but we would like these family-owned companies not just to be foundations like that. No, they're not. They're supposed to be family-owned businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143437	Well, as you know, the best defense is an attack, but the rapporteur did not really answer if it does not make an impression. Well, it has nothing to do with Christmas Eve. It is about what provides good framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is the Craft Industry Council, which represents precisely those that the rapporteur is talking about, which points out something quite different from what is now being implemented, which will mean more inequality, as the rapporteur did not confirm. But the rapporteur's President has said that there is no reason to reduce the inheritance tax further, and I would actually like to ask the rapporteur in the end: why is it then that the 5%? is a sensible rent, and not the 15%.? What is like the difference for the Danish People's Party there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143516	In other words, politics is the art of the possible, and that is the way it is. The Danish People's Party has agreed to lower the inheritance tax in relation to the estate tax on family-owned companies at generational change from 15 to 5 per cent. Until 2020. We think that is an excellent level. What will then happen after 2020, in 2025 or in 2030, the time will then have to show, but that does not change what is the Danish People's Party's policy for the present. It is, of course, that the agreement that has been made is an agreement like all sorts of others, and of course we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143549	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143550	Will Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby doesn't recognise that this bill will mean that some of the people who have the most money in this society will get a hefty tax rebate, which from 2020 onwards will cost about 1 billion. kr. and that the billion kroner could have been spent on other things, for example. More teachers in kindergartens, more primary school teachers in primary schools or more nurses in hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143621-2	I do not want to do that, because if the rapporteur wants money to be made available to the school teacher concerned, which is mentioned, then it requires milk to be produced by the milking machine; it also requires the production of pumps at Grundfos and everything else. We have to make value added in Denmark. This is not just by accepting that we are destroying our own competitiveness in relation to other countries that we typically and traditionally compete with. This is among other things. in the sense that Swedish industrial companies will have international competition, and that is the way in which British or German or Eastern European industrial companies compete. Then I would like to say that I can confirm the fact that they are receiving a tax credit. I can confirm that. It is not, in fact, a discussion, because they do. But those who enjoy it are not the landowners. It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that will get the approx. 750 million kr. of the billion kroner that will be raised with the financial bill proposals up to 2020. So that is where we have to say that it is actually quite healthy and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143729	As a service message, I must inform you that it is the cow that gives milk, not the milking machine, but here you go to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143739	So the rapporteur actually recognises that a tax rebate is being given here, which also goes to some of those who have the most money in Danish society. Thank you. I have to admit that I find it very difficult to understand that the Danish People's Party often talks about being the little man's party or which wordings that the Danish People's Party likes to use but it must be understood in such a way that one is prepared to grant a tax relief which also benefits those who have absolutely the most money in this society. I feel that when all of us are going to pay the estate and inheritance tax, why should it not be the case that family-owned companies should do so? I also believe that they should contribute in the same way that everyone else contributes to the common fund to finance common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143824	I do not share the rapporteur's view that the rich Danish families do not contribute to the community I simply do not. I think that is a wrong premise in relation to the relatively high level of taxation which still exists in Denmark. So that doesn't really change it. No, what this changes is actually something else, I think. And it's not these ten estates and the billionaires we're going to talk about; we're going to talk about the other 22.990 and then we can subtract a few hundred from others and so on. But a large number of these companies are smaller companies, where there are no gold and mammoth floating around the hallway. And I think we should actually deal with them, so that their 300,000 jobs in Denmark are developed rather than being dismantled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143909	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we are ready for the next one. It's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404143924	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are the first-reader of a bill to reduce the housing and gift tax to 5%. Towards 2020. The bill translates into the agreement on the Finance Act for 2016. It was concluded between the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party. The former Red Government chose with Mr. Benny Engelbrecht as tax minister to abolish the property tax rate. Thus, the generation shift in family-owned businesses suddenly became much more expensive with a stroke of pens. This is problematic as the family-owned companies account for the employment of six out of ten private employees. Of these private employees, approx. 300,000 people employed in a family-owned company that is responsible for a generational change within a short period of time. The high level of taxation can, at best, mean that there is no means of affording the investment envisaged in the company to ensure its competitiveness. In the worst case scenario, the family sells the company and the jobs move abroad. The overall aim of this bill is therefore to create better conditions for the between 40,000 and 60,000 family-owned companies in Denmark, which account for approximately 70%. of Danish exports and, as I said, six out of ten private employees are employed in Denmark. These are very small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large Danish flagships such as Danfoss and LEGO. As it is today, family-owned companies pay 15%. of the company's valuation in inheritance tax when the reins are to be passed on to the next generation. It is a burden for the approx. 23,000 family-owned companies with approx. 300 000 jobs facing a generational change over the next 10 years. Because when the state demands 15%. of the valuation, that means that it is money that the company does not have on the coffin floor, and therefore many of the family-owned companies are considering whether to sell or borrow money, perhaps even moving to Sweden, where they do not have a residence and gift tax at all. I can't let that happen. It would hit many of the private employees we have in Denmark, while at the same time it would hit all of Denmark hard. Family-owned companies are anchored locally throughout Denmark, where they contribute to growth, employment and the attraction of labour, including in rural areas. Let me read a quote from Jacob Kjær from Akva Waterbeds, a family-owned company from Galten with 30 employees, and this illustrates the benefits of lowering the tax on living and giving. It doesn't mean we have to pull that money out of the company. We can concentrate on running the business further and investing in future growth, instead of wondering about putting money into Tax. The reduction of the tax, which the Left, of course, hopes we can completely abolish until 2025, means more money in companies for investment, new jobs and the many benefits for our society and welfare that result from it, because the money is allowed to stay in the company while at the same time being able to work in society. Of course, it is important to ensure transparency and clarity in the reduction of the housing and gift tax when assessing companies. The bill takes that into account. In situations where SKAT considers that valuation cannot be based on share and goodwill circulars, it will be the task of SKAT to demonstrate that the circulars will not give a true view of the commercial value. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that the draft law takes account of the criticisms that have been made about the resumption of stock-taxed securities. The current rules may result in double taxation and double deduction. That is now being cleaned up. Against this background, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144254	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144300	Thank you. I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether she recognizes the answer that has come from the Ministry of Taxation, where it is written in black and white that this proposal to reduce inheritance tax does not contribute to growth and jobs, although everything the rapporteur spoke about in his rapporteur's speech was about this having to secure jobs in Denmark. And there we have actually received the answer that it does not. So does the rapporteur not recognise that? In relation to the second part, where the rapporteur devoted a great deal of energy to talking about small and medium-sized enterprises and rural areas, I would say that we would also like to create jobs there. The challenge is simply that, if that is what the Left is concerned with, why is it that a progressive inheritance tax is not being made? In other words, where it is said that the really large companies with large fortunes, which are some of the most important in Danish society, must of course contribute to Danish society and pay an inheritance tax. Why is it that the Left does not advocate progressive inheritance taxation? I would really like to hear the Left's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144402	Now it sounds to Mrs Lea Wermelin as if these companies are not paying any taxes at all, but they are doing very much. After all, they are major contributors to Danish society in tax revenue in all kinds of forms. So let me start by making that clear. I have also noticed that Mrs Lea Wermelin reads the reply from the Treasury very clearly and jumps lightly and elegantly over the paragraph where it says that there is no analysis of what is of dynamic effects on employment. So, on this basis, I cannot approve the interpretation of the Socialist Group. But I understand that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has a clear explanation of this answer. It is true that we are in favour of employment throughout the country, and a great many of these companies, including the relatively large family-owned companies, are located in rural areas. So it is of real importance to rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144453	No, a rapporteur from a party is not going to approve an answer coming from the Ministry. Fortunately, it is professionally funded officials and staff who prepare that answer, and that is why we must take what is written at face value, even if the rapporteur will not confirm it. But now I really want to ask you something else, because I'm here with this book called "Hidden Money," about power, party support and lobbying in Danish politics, and there's a small chapter about the inheritance tax lobby that says that Peter Foss, who was in charge of this organization Growth in Generations, should have given party support to the Left. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is also the case that the Left has received party support from Peter Foss, who has just advocated a reduction in the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144542	Now, the Socialist rapporteur is beginning to insinuate that we should have something from something and that we can be bought. I really must distance myself from that. It may well be that the Social Democratic Party makes contacts with the trade union movement about what to think and gets paid for it and then, incidentally, breaks the agreement afterwards. But something like that doesn't happen in the Left. We don't let ourselves buy for anything. I have no idea who has contributed to the Left, and I should not know that either. My policy should be based on what I think is right, and what I think is right is to ensure that these 300 000 employees who work in companies facing a generational change over the next 10 years can remain in companies in Danish hands that they can remain in Denmark. That's why I don't want to brand tax family-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144627	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144632	In the alternative, we quite disagree with the rapporteur's speech. We do not want to go along with this bill, but we will spend time trying to see whether some companies are really getting into trouble here. In the past, when we have talked about inheritance tax in general, we have talked about the fact that we would like to raise the level. Well, if it starts at $270,000. Today, we would like to raise it to 500,000 kroner. and say that up to that amount you pay no tax, and then make the progressive one that the Social Democrat rapporteur is talking about. Could I have some indications that there are some companies which have some figures that for them it will simply be business-critical and that they will succumb if we do not give them that help? Otherwise, I also think it is an unequal position. The citizens of Denmark have to pay inheritance tax, but then you choose to exempt some companies which, if they are so well run and they have a new, fresh generation, will manage, I think, with our other sensible business arrangements. Are there any examples of this now, or should I ask them in writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144732	I think it is suitable for a written question, but I can say that some of the companies have calculated that in order to pay this inheritance tax they have to draw 40%. of their equity capital out of the company. And it drains a company really hard if you have to pull 40%. Out of it. It goes without saying that it costs something both for employment and for investment in future capital, research and development. So it will have massive consequences for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144757	I shall put the clearing question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144802	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144807	Now the rapporteur himself mentioned LEGO in his speech. Can the rapporteur not confirm two things: firstly, that, in line with many other business dynasties in this country, LEGO is someone who really wants to make good money from this? Well, we're talking about a billion-dollar tax rebate. That's the first thing. Secondly, would the rapporteur not also confirm that there is indeed a process of a generational change in LEGO with the existing rules and that, therefore, this new tax rebate simply gives more money in LEGO's pocket instead of going into the Community's pocket and that that money could have been spent on other things, for example. to improve our common welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144850	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur expects me to know a great deal about LEGO. I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur should contact LEGO for that information, because that is not something I am aware of. I'm kind of concerned about these general consequences, which are where it's first and foremost 75%. (i) the proceeds from the sale of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that is incredibly positive. And then I am concerned that we can maintain jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144912	I just think it is important, when the rapporteur himself mentions LEGO in his rapporteur's speech, to say that it is indeed the case that there has been legislation in this area for many years, when very many companies have been able to make generational changes on an ongoing basis. I believe, and Enhedslisten, that this can be done with existing legislation without a new tax rebate being introduced. And would the rapporteur not recognise that this is a tax rebate which will really be used by family-owned companies, by the billion heirs that exist among Denmark's family dynasties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404144948	Well, that's how Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, when he was Minister of Taxation, abolished the property tax rate, and I think that many of these great family dynasties would prefer to reinstate the property tax rate. The proposal that we are making here is also very much of a benefit to small and medium-sized enterprises, which receive 75%. of the proceeds. We are doing this with open eyes because we want all companies, not just large companies, to benefit from this because we believe that everyone benefits from the growth that ensures employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145019	Thank you, and so thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, now on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145045	Overall, it's quite easy for Enhedslisten to decide on this proposal. We say no, no and no to giving a huge reduction in taxes to the family dynasties of business. There is no doubt, and we can also see from the debate here today, that this is a tax rebate which will also include those companies where, in the event of a transfer, there would be a billion-dollar payment. Those companies are not going to have to pay that payment, even though everyone else in this country, us ordinary people, is going to have to pay the living and gift tax. We simply think this is unfair. Overall, by 2020, the rate of residence and gift tax will have to be gradually reduced from 15%. 5 per cent, and the ambition towards 2025 is that there will be no payment of residence and gift tax at all. It is a huge tax rebate for the richest families in Denmark. That is bad because, as the French economist Thomas Piketty writes, we will only be able to overcome the exploding inequality if we actually tax the great inheritance in particular, and this proposal therefore goes in exactly the opposite direction. The Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement has also recently published a note on the growing inequality in Denmark. That note presents a number of figures which, like, speak their own clear language. Over the last 10 years, Danish fortunes have become more unequally distributed. It's only the people with the 30%. biggest fortunes that have seen an increase in their fortunes. Everyone else has experienced a fall in crowns and ears. And in Denmark, one percent has the biggest fortunes of 23 per cent. of all fortunes. Net assets are more unevenly distributed than income in Denmark. Those people with the 10%. The highest wealth has an average of 3.7 million. kr.; the persons with the 10%. lowest net worth has a net debt of nearly DKK 700,000. It's only the 30%. with the largest fortunes in Denmark, which has experienced an increase over the last 10 years. The 10%. with the lowest net worth, they have increased their debt by more than DKK 270,000. on average, while the 10%. with the largest fortunes, their net worth has increased by nearly DKr 625,000. So we have an increasing inequality in society. We also have it globally, and we have it at European level. This proposal will push on the rising inequality; it won't make up for the rising inequality. It might be interesting to try to value some of the big family dynasties that will benefit from this tax rebate. These are family dynasties in the business sector, which are about to pass through a generational change. Because we have to ask ourselves whether it really is not a much larger amount than the one billion kroner which is mentioned as a small income for the Treasury. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Take Danfoss, Grundfos, and Lego, aren't they each huge amounts of money? It seems doubtful if there is only less revenue for the common fund of 1 billion. kr. in 2020. The proposal cannot therefore be supported by the Enhedslisten. We do not want to be involved in giving huge tax reductions to the family dynasties of business. We believe that, in line with all of us, companies should also pay taxes and should also contribute to the common fund. We cannot support the proposal. And I should say from the SF that SF has the same attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145437	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one question from Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145442	It is not so surprising that Enhedslisten is opposed to this bill. Six out of ten private employees in Denmark are employed in a family-owned company, and just to be safe, I would like to ask: When Enhedslisten is in favour of brand taxing the family-owned companies, is it because the six out of ten private employees just won't be employed in family-owned companies? Is Enhedslisten just against family-owned companies and wants a different form of ownership?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145507	No, we're not. We are talking about the existing tax arrangements, and what we are discussing today is whether we should give a tax rebate to some companies so that they do not have to contribute to the common fund, to the welfare fund in line with all of us. I do not call that a fire tax, as I would call it, that a tax rebate, an unnecessary tax rebate, is currently being given to some companies that can manage if they are well run and make a change of generation if they are well run. It is always the case that when we need money in the common fund, when we need to spend money on welfare, when we need more money for educators in kindergarten, when we need more money for primary school teachers in primary school, when we want to hire more nurses in hospitals, the money has to come from somewhere. And why should it only be ordinary people who have to contribute? Why should companies not contribute? They're also part of this society, and that's why they should also contribute, and that's why they shouldn't have a tax rebate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145559	Does Enhedslisten's rapporteur recognise that these companies pay quite a lot of other taxes, and thus because they do not have to pay the same tax, they do not fail to pay tax, but just do not pay tax on the inheritance tax? And when companies have to pull up to 40%. of own funds out of the company, can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur imagine that it has a consequence for the further operation of the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145620	I am of the opinion that there are the tax rules that exist on estate tax and inheritance tax, and I think it is fair to pay taxes on large fortunes. I think this is fair in relation to individual individuals, us as individuals, because this is an income that should be taxed, and I also think it is fair when we talk about family-run businesses. And I do not see why it has to be said all of a sudden here that they do not have to pay estate and inheritance taxes like everyone else. So that is simply the basic premise, and I refuse to accept that if you do not give such an unfair tax rebate here, which will increase inequality, then it will prevent well-run companies from being driven forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145658	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145701	Now the rapporteur mentioned LEGO and many other large enterprises. I'd rather ask in another way. Does the rapporteur deny that there are companies in the Kingdom of Denmark that have to sell out of their production assets in order for the holder to be able to pay the inheritance tax to be paid today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145725	I have to admit, it's a little difficult for me to see what the real extent of this generational problem really is. There may be companies that can be challenged by this. I would like to acknowledge that. But then I think we should look at some other measures. Are there any borrowing options that are needed? Are there any other measures that we can do to help companies through a generational change? However, to make such a tax discount, which, as it were, is smudged on everyone and not least the family-owned companies, the family dynasties which represent billions of dollars, which they would not have to pay when this tax slips through the Folketing, I simply think that is quite unreasonable. I really think that, and I think that the government should think about this rather than just be extremely interested in sharing out another tax rebate, that if you really cared about what this issue was exactly about and did not just give in to what to say, some sort of strong lobbying from a certain number of companies, you should have discussed some much more precise measures, some much more targeted measures that could come to the end of this issue, instead of lubricating a tax rebate, which also comes to those who have the most, the very richest in this society, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145841	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, too, the second time. It wasn't much different than the first time. What I was asking for was whether the rapporteur denied that there were companies that had to sell out their assets in order for the holder to be able to pay his inheritance tax. That's what I asked for. I understood the answer in that way that the rapporteur could not deny it, it could actually be, but that it had to be dealt with through some loan options. So, unfortunately, I just have to say that it is the case with a loan that it has to be paid back, and I hope that there is a basis for that when you have shaved the company for assets to this extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404145917	Well, this is really an absurd discussion, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is trying to leave. We have some tax rules that apply today. As a company, you have to conform to the tax rules, operate on the basis of the tax rules. If there is some money that needs to be set aside in order to be able to pay some money later on in connection with a generational change, then we must do so too. I simply do not recognise the premise that companies should not contribute to the common fund with an inheritance tax when we, as ordinary people, have to do so. It costs to have a welfare society running. It is also very important to have a welfare society like ours. We can even see that the way in which we have run our welfare society has helped to create not only one of the most equal societies in the world but also one of the most productive and competitive and innovative societies. It has been paid over tax, and it is tax that has also been paid by companies. That is why companies must also contribute to the common fund, because they will also benefit from the welfare society in which we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150015	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150018	In 2016, the Ministry of Taxation established that between 1997 and 2014 there had been no development of the property ratio for the 10%. The richest Danes. They had the same share of assets in 2014 as they had in 1997. It is some information which has been accepted both by the think tank Cevea and the think tank CEPOS, so they are widely recognized. Where does the rapporteur have his information that there has been a huge distortion of wealth?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150050	There are various statements of the fortunes: Does the pension include, doesn't the pension include? It is important to say that if we are to look at inequality, it is the most income inequality that has seriously increased. The improbability, depending on how to calculate it, is increased or, at least, still very large. If you're gonna be really kind to Mr. Knox... Henrik Dahl and we take what to say, the most positive starting point in the way the Liberal Alliance might see the world, so one can at least say that wealth inequality has remained at a stable high level. I do not really think that is an objective either. I would like to see inequality reduced, both in terms of income inequality, but also, of course, in terms of wealth inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150142	There was not what I asked, and that is not what this is about. What the Ministry of Taxation states, and which is joined by think tanks both to the right and to the left of the middle, is that they 10 per cent. In no way has the wealthiest run from the rest of the population. There is the same structure in the development of wealth as there was for approx. 20 years ago. Does the rapporteur recognize this and where does the rapporteur get his alternative reality figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150207	There are different ways to settle the fortunes. If we take the rather new publication from the Workers' Industry Council, you can see in their analysis and their note that it is only the 30%. with the largest fortunes in Denmark, which have experienced an increase over the last 10 years, while they 10 per cent. with the lowest net worth, their debt has increased by more than DKK 270,000. average.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150234	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150244	Thank you for that, President. This bill reduces the housing and gift tax for family-owned businesses from 15 to 5%. Towards 2020. This is a major step towards the complete abolition of the tax on housing and gifts. As several have mentioned, a large part of Danish companies are family-owned companies, and a large proportion of them face a generational change in the coming years. It affects, as several others have also mentioned, approx. 300,000 jobs in Denmark. Family-owned companies are both large and small companies. They are large global companies such as LEGO, and they are very small local craft companies. Whatever the size of companies, it is companies created by enterprising people who sell products and services that are worth more to those who buy them than they have to pay for them. It is therefore companies that make the world a better place, just as companies run in other forms of company do. People who create businesses may be motivated by many different factors, but I think it is common to all of them that they want to make sure that the company is managed safely if the next generation wants to take over. It is equally important that the employees who are in the company have the confidence that they can continue to have a job in the company and also be in a company that has opportunities to develop. I think there is a big misunderstanding in this debate. One gets the impression that the housing and gift tax in connection with generational change is something that is paid by business owners, but that is not true. The cost is borne by the employees of the company; the tax burden, the cost of the tax, is passed on to the employees of the company. Because when the company is drained of capital, there is less money to develop the company for, less money to invest in new machines, in new technology, in new workflows that can increase productivity in the company, giving higher real wages to the company's employees. It has also been given the impression that this means that the owners of the company will increase their personal fortunes, but this is capital that stays in the company. So I think this is a very sensible approach that we are taking now. I am, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats choose to create such enormous insecurity for these companies in the future. We heard the former Social Democrat rapporteur guarantee and give a clear 'yes' to the fact that once the Social Democrats come to power, this will be rolled back. It is not something that promotes security in relation to running a business in Denmark in the future. I find that very regrettable. Social democracy often says that they are certainly a party that would like to have a good business climate in Denmark, but it is apparently just words that are too bad, too bad. I think there is another point in this legislative proposal which is, in fact, important and which has also been surrounded by a certain amount of discussion. It is about the actual valuation of companies when they have to change the generation, because it is as important as the tax rate itself. It almost goes without saying that this is the case. There I think it is very good that in future it will be SKAT, which will, like the burden of proof, if it is the case that the valuation cannot be made after the so-called stock and goodwill circular. I think that is reassuring for legal certainty. So all in all, this is a legislative proposal which is certainly moving in the right direction and which we can, of course, support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150737	Thank you. There is one question from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150741	Thank you. It is not so surprising that we disagree with the Liberal Alliance about where the level of taxes should be laid in Denmark. Once again, we can hear from one of the government parties that both small and large companies are being drawn forward. The company heirs are quite the ones to be taxed, because they are the next generation in such a company they have to take over, but it is the employees that the Liberal Alliance cares about. Now, in connection with the fact that we have had to deal with this bill, I have received an e-mail in which we have dealt with this proposal and where it is said that we are glad that the Social Democrats are saying 'no' and that we are against it. But it is also said that if the government and the Liberal Alliance are so concerned about the need for security for employees, why has it not been proposed to make it easier for employees to take over such a company, that is to say, that the company can be transferred to the employees as a company owner? Why is this not part of this proposal? I guess it could be if that was what the Liberal Alliance really cared about. The second part of my question is this: does the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance recognise that, in relation to the OECD, we are quite low in Denmark when it comes to inheritance tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150903	If the Social Democratic Party wants to extend the bill in such a way that it also applies to the handover to others, then I think it is positive, and that is a little how I understand the question we can talk about that. So let us finally have a discussion on that. But these are rather confusing reports now coming from the Social Democratic Party, because, on the one hand, you want to roll back this bill with the insecurity that this is bound to entail for these companies, and, on the other hand, you want to open up perhaps even to expand the circle to which the company can be transferred under these rules. I always think that the industrial policy of the Social Democratic Party has been very, very confusing, and that confusion has not diminished now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404150955	After all, it was not the policy of the Social Democratic Party that I set out. I simply asked the rapporteur that if what the rapporteur is very concerned about is the employees of those companies, why is it that this proposal is targeted at the company heirs, that is, the next generation? I suppose you could make a suggestion that it should be easier for employees to take over the company. That's why the argument from the Liberal Alliance sounds a little hollow. In relation to the fact that we have contributed to insecurity, I would say that it is quite wrong. On the contrary, it is the Liberal Alliance and the governing parties which contribute to the insecurity with regard to the conditions of the Danish economy by not calling for broad growth negotiations. We have actually asked the government whether it could not be interested in calling for broad growth negotiations, because we have actually made a proposal that we would really like to discuss with the government, and I would very much like to hand this over to the rapporteur so that the rapporteur can learn more about everything that the Social Democrats stand for in relation to growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151055	I have read the little pamphlet that has been prepared, that is, the Social Democrat's growth proposal ■ it was quickly done. However, I do not really see why the Social Democrats should be involved in negotiations on this, when they have so clearly stated that it cannot be supported. This is certainly also about the employees who are in the companies, because, as I said earlier, it is they who bear the cost when capital is withdrawn from the company, because that capital is not in the company and cannot be invested in the company. in new technology or new machinery, thereby increasing the value of their labour force and thus giving them higher wages. So it is very much a question of ensuring that companies can develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151150	We are therefore grateful to the rapporteur, and the next speaker is Mr Beazley. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151201	Thank you. It is always exciting when the debate develops. I have to start by saying what I intended to say, and then I will come back to the debate between Mrs Lea Wermelin and Mr Wermelin. Joachim B. Olsen, in which I think there were some interesting perspectives, also for the Alternative, namely on employee involvement • incidentally on the shoulders of a long entrepreneurial debate we had last week. However, on this proposal, I would say that in the alternative we are opposed to further favouring the owners of a generational change, even though I can understand very well the arguments used to say that this legislation should be sensible. We would also like to place the business owners in the best possible position in the competition, and we would also like to give the new generation of business owners the best possible opportunities to run it even further. I'm thinking of it as such a kind of disruption. Well, what's a generation change really? Is that something we should look at as a disease, or is that something we should look at as an opportunity? And I want to say that we have to look at it as an opportunity. Then you can say: Wow, it is a bad start to deprive the new generations of the economic benefits we could otherwise give them if we agreed to this proposal. But that really is my sincere view. In other words, we could adopt the alternative's position and say: we do have quite reasonable conditions for the change of generation, also internationally, so we will not give any further relief here. If this were to be maintained, the first would be the status quo. Secondly, perhaps one might ask: what kind of legislation do some companies have today when we have this kind of legislation? Is that a number we're going in to look at? Can we help them somehow? Can we get them ready for this disruption, that is, this generational change? And I know that there are companies that make a living from providing that consultancy. There are also a great many people in the public sector who are capable of advice and guidance. And that's where I think we're gonna have to start. In other words, we must make companies better and better able to have a generational change and then use it to create some momentum in their markets. Then I would say that if we were to do something here, I would like us to think a little along the lines we have suggested in the alternative in relation to private property taxes and inheritance taxes. Today we have a scheme in which it is more than DKK 276,000, I think we are starting to pay tax on kr. that was taxed at all when you inherited something. And then we proposed imposing a progression tax, which might be 15%. for everything that was over 1 million. kr. In this series of figures, I hope we have been able to keep up with the fact that we are trying to protect those who actually take over a small fortune. It can be through a long life where you have saved, and it is therefore private that I am talking about now; it is just to create a picture of what we could also do here while those who actually have quite reasonable means, that is, over 1.2 million. kr., would be given an additional tax. But anyone who takes over a fortune of less than 1.2 million. kr., would then benefit from us doing this progressive tax instead. In the same way, I would also like to look at such a proposal here, so that it was a progressive tax on companies, so that it was the very large companies that would be taxed differently and the smaller ones that would benefit from a similar type of relief as the one being talked about here. But perhaps there is more to the model for which the Social Democratic Party has previously been the banner leader, in other words, where it is attractive to get into the foundations with the anchors that the Left rapporteur, I think, has also expressed in the past, in terms of whether it is intended that we should get them into those funds. There can be said both for and against. So the starting point for us in the alternative is: no to this redistribution from those who feel quite reasonable to some who would feel quite reasonable if we did nothing and would also continue to have it. But at a time when we have groups in the country hovering on the edge and I sincerely believe that, even though we have one of the most equal societies in the world, we think this is the wrong redistribution. However, I recognise the quite a lot of sensible arguments that could still be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151602	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151606	I would really like to hear of something quite low-practical in understanding. When a company has to change its generation, it may be that there has been a death, it may be that the owner has grown old and that the company therefore has to be passed on to the next generation, what is the logic of withdrawing capital from the company? The rapporteur says that it is the owner of the business that is favoured, but it is not, after all, the capital of the company, and what is the greater logic of the fact that, in the event that it is to be transferred, the company must simply be driven further, capital must be withdrawn from the company? What is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151654	Our whole idea is precisely that we would like to see it recognised as a company in Denmark that infrastructure, employee relations and social foundations are what have created the opportunities for the company and that you have to pay back to it. It can then be through sensible fund grants later on, or it can be through a sensible employee policy, or when the company changes owners at a generational change. Then it's the time to pay back. The head is shaken, so there must be something that isn't logical. I'll see if I can come up with something more logical. When we all have to have equal opportunities to create growth and good conditions for ourselves, we would like to see some residual species. This means that you do not just take over old privileges or old riches without having to enter and earn it and without having paid anything back into the box. That is our approach. We want to create equal opportunities for everyone to have a sound living basis, both as a company and as a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151759	You want some rest? And the way in which the Alternative believes to be left to rest is a lovely word... is simply that there is some capital in the company that happens to be faced with a generational change that must be destroyed. That's what's happening. There is some capital in the company that is now disappearing. It's really quite arbitrary. It may be someone who dies, it may be that one has become too old and that new forces are needed, and then some capital has to be drawn out. Now, thank you. But one has created a company that primarily contributes to society by employing some people. You create some products, some services that people want, that's how you contribute, and you pay your own income tax, etc. etc. I simply do not see the deeper logic that a company should not continue, that there should not be the same capital in the company, because when it comes to a new owner, it just has to withdraw capital from the company. It's just not logical for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404151912	I believe that much of the disagreement between the rapporteur and myself is that I do not believe that capital disappears when it is taxed, because the taxed part goes into the treasury. I think if I remember correctly, the rapporteur described it as taking it away, smoking it somewhere strange into a black hole. That's not what I'm saying at all. I say that I think it is right to tax such accumulated values in a company. It seems that we have a very political discussion here, because every word I say turns into an ideological struggle, whether it is liberal or socialist. We are not part-out any of the parts of the alternative, so I would just like to say that we believe that redistribution also applies to companies, because companies should not be further Qualifying compared to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152000	There will be more opportunities to explain themselves, for there are more questioners. So it will help very well if we all keep to the speaking time. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152007	Thank you. I would like to commend the rapporteur for having a more nuanced and listening approach. I appreciate that. But I'm just gonna try to get rid of what I think must be a misunderstanding. It sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that people have money in an account from which they can pay. But we see very much that for these companies they are tied in premises, employees and machines, and they then need to sell some of it in order to be able to pay for it here, and that means that companies are being drained of funds and thus put back into competition. Now the rapporteur says that one could imagine a disruption in which some came in and looked at what the company would do. Could the rapporteur's optics imagine that some of these companies would come to the conclusion that it was smarter to move to Skåne or somewhere else in Sweden where they do not have a residence and gift tax and thus be free from being drained of this capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152101	First of all, I have no idea what is in a junior account or something that the money has to be deducted from. But what is of furniture, what is of value in a company, I think is what is taxed. In other words, it is true that, as far as the values of a company are concerned, whatever they may be, we do not want to give any further relief to companies. But what I find interesting is to investigate and it may be that the answer to the question is exactly what kind of companies are going to be in the risk zone here. There may be some who would rather move to Sweden if we were to maintain the living and gift tax that we have today at the time of the generational change. Then it has to be so, and then we have to create other conditions, so you want to be in Denmark. It is like when we have talked about helping people in the form of tax conditions that are more lucrative than they are today in Denmark. If that's why you settle in Denmark, if that's why the Danish family-owned companies have chosen to stay in Denmark, then I think there's something wrong with them if they want to move for a tax advantage. So I think it is our job to make the infrastructure and the conditions that our Danish companies have so attractive that it is not just a generation tax that is the reason for moving from the country. And I do not think the thinking is fair if our talk is that it is the family run companies that create Denmark, which I actually agree it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152209	It is very good that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur agrees that it is very much the family-owned companies that create Denmark. I have not said that myself, but the rapporteur says so. But why is it that one would rather have them transferred to fund ownership? The rapporteur mentioned that the rapporteur would rather have fund ownership than family-owned businesses. What is the reason for this if you think that they are involved in forming Denmark? And if a company has to choose between cutting 40%. In other words, employees and factory, yes, everything or move to Sweden, which may be a matter of life and death, is it so strange if they move to Sweden to survive?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152245	No, I certainly do not think that we should say that it is better with fund-owned companies than family-run companies in no way. I am just saying that, instead of saying yes to this proposal, I am more motivated by what I have heard from the Social Democratic Party in the past and which we ourselves have done in the alternative, namely that it would be sensible to give a lucrative relationship to the companies that will be put into a fund. If you are in a fund and have the fund privileges that we have in Denmark, then it will also benefit the general good and society when you have to spend the money that is in that fund. There is no guarantee of that in a family-owned company, so that's what I meant by it. There may be some family-owned companies who think this is too bad, and then I would say that they must come to those who know something about it and get some sparring. Because you shouldn't be wrapped in cotton wool because you need a generational change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152330	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152332	The rapporteur has mentioned on several occasions that owners of family-run businesses have privileges. That is to say, they are unequal in relation to the law. Privileges were abolished under a radical government in 1919 with the law of redemption. When have these privileges been reinstated? This has completely avoided my attention. Perhaps the rapporteur can tell us when a privilege has been reinstated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152359	Now we are back in Nordic Language and Literature, where I read many years ago. It may be that I used the word privileges incorrectly. I also say that I myself have a number of privileges, both as a father and as a parliamentarian. What I meant with privileges here is that you have a sensible life, that you yourself have set up a company, earn your money, have employees and deliver to society. So these are the privileges that may lie in being now I have to use an English word again, just as I had to say to others that you yourself have created something and benefit from it. It is both with a reasonable income for most people and by generally being a part of society and being able to create something for their families. I think that is a strong privilege. It may then be someone that has been created and that society lets you keep, rather than just taking it all by saying that it has to be state-owned companies or whatever we can get into. But a privilege is just meant in the sense that by far most of them are quite reasonable. Those who do not have it must ensure that we do not have any further problems, but it is, of course, an existing legislation, so I do not think that it is turning everything upside down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152501	So what the rapporteur calls privileges is the consequence of things you do yourself. In other words, this is the consequence of the sensible conduct of oneself, which the rapporteur considers to be privileges. However, that does not change the question: why should capital be destroyed in connection with, for example, a death in a family-owned company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152524-2	I guess I told Mr. Henrik Dahl's colleague, because I didn't mean to destroy, but that they disappeared or came down a black hole. It was the word destruction, which I think was also used before. I do not believe that the values will be destroyed or the capital destroyed. They're going to the Treasury. You can then discuss whether the Treasury is the best place to have that money or not. There I often and often advocate that it is the companies that are best to spend the money. So we can often meet about that. But here it will be a tax relief that we give to some who, in my view, are well and those who are not well, those who cannot carry on their business, we must help proactively by then. The generational shift is not a disease. It's a natural part of running a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152603	With that, we thank the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152616	Unfortunately, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal to reduce the housing and gift tax from 15% at this stage. 5%. This is not due to any ideological reluctance to the idea itself. This is due to an elementary economic priority. We simply believe that the billions of dollars that will be used for this purpose could create more growth and more employment if the money was used in other ways. After all, the government has been kind enough to stick out a feeler to see if they could lure us into it, and I'd like to sign for that. It's always nice when you're asked. Our answer was that we wanted to help make a package for business. We would like to see family businesses converted to, for example. Fundeje, you got a hundred percent discount, i.e. no inheritance tax at all. For example, the money we saw was left out of the billion kroner. use to create an entrepreneurial package or otherwise promote business in Denmark, not least in the outlying districts. But we could understand that a financial agreement had been made. It's also quite fair. That's politics sometimes and therefore you couldn't put this package together differently. Then I will probably be asked in a moment whether we, like the Social Democrats, intend to roll this back when we may have a majority again at some point. To that I would say that we will take a position on that at the time. It will depend on the economic situation of the empire, it will depend on the economic priorities that we otherwise face and whether we believe that we can do better with that money elsewhere or whether it would be a bad idea. So it will be a difficult task to blow me off the answer to that question at this stage. We will take a position on this when it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152805	Yes, it might well suggest that some will try to get the rapporteur off the ground with an answer. It called for some Left attention, and the first is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152814	Recognizes Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that this is about about 300,000 jobs that are in these companies that are going to be generationally changed in the coming years? How does Mr. Martin Lidegaard at the risk of moving abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152831	So I have to say that I have not been convinced by the answers given by the government and by the Treasury that we are gambling with 300 000 jobs here. This is a tax we have had for many decades in Denmark. In Denmark, fortunately, we have had a very good economic development in recent years. We have record low unemployment and we have very good prospects for Danish companies. In our reign, we carried out a repayment scheme which means that when you have to pay this tax, you have 15 years to pay off. We reduced the interest rate when you had to pay this instalment so that the burden on companies was reduced. So I do not see a huge decline in Danish economic growth at first sight. I believe, as I said, that we could create more economic growth, not least in the outermost regions, if we made a more targeted reduction than the one proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152923	Now it is a bit of a distortion to say that we have had the same taxation for decades, for it was under the former SR government that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht abolished the property tax rate, which meant that the tax was raised at generational change and that it has caused a lot of problems in relation to generational change. But I can understand from the rapporteur of the Radicals that the radicals thought it was a very good idea to abolish the property tax rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404152945	In other words, if we had all the money in the world, I believe very quickly that the Left and the Radical Left could agree to make a lot of business tax relief that is needed. The share premium tax will be too high in this country; we think it is at least a matter of principle. We also believe that deductions should be granted to many entrepreneurs, also in addition to what the government might propose, so that we can promote not least green entrepreneurs, not least in the outermost regions. There is a lot of deduction, and we have actually set aside billions of kroner in our 2025 plan to promote business tax relief for the benefit and benefit of growth throughout the country. But we don't think this is the best way to use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153026	The next question is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153028	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard correctly predicted that there would be a question of whether the Radicals would help roll this proposal back when it had to be adopted. The answer was that it depended on the situation of the empire. If we now assumed that within a few months there was a change of government and another government made proposals to roll it back, then we have the same situation as today. So what's the answer? Would the Radicals roll it back or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153056	But it is worthwhile that the rapporteur is trying to blow me off an answer anyway. But so it is the case that when we have to rejoin a government at some point, we will look at the total economic state of the empire... what needs are there? We are, for example. really, really sorry that the current government is cutting billions in education. That is something we really want to prioritise. And if we cannot find the money elsewhere, then I will not deny that we may have to look at this area too, but I would not say that we are determined to do so either. This will depend on the overall economic situation and whether we can find the money elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153134	I almost have the feeling that we are not getting anywhere, but I was just saying that there should be no doubt that it was if we assumed that it was exactly the same situation we have today, that is to say that within a month or two we changed government. The rapporteur must then be able to answer how the Radicals will vote. The Radicals know better than any other country's economic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153154	Here and now we're not in favour of this action. We are going to vote against because we do not think this is the right use of the funds here and now. So it is fairly clear where we are in that discussion. Then I have to say: I understand that the question is being asked, because it is, of course, a rather unpleasant situation for companies not to know whether this is continuing or not, but then you have to try with a slightly wider majority than what you have tried to create here through a financial agreement. And then it's tradition that you give a little and take a little, and then you can make sustainable solutions. So I do not quite feel that it is I who should take responsibility for the fact that we cannot give that guarantee at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153233	To be reassuring, I can say that no elections have been held. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153239	I understand that the Radical Left finds it difficult to give an answer to what will happen in 15, 20, 25 years' time when the Radical Left may return to government. I fully respect it, and if my good colleague Mr. Preben Bank Henriksen cannot lure an answer out of Mr. Martin Lidegaard, I guess I can't either. That is why I would like to make a comment and then a question. In the debate that has taken place, and in what I hear from the radical rapporteur, it seems as if we are not aware that this reduction in taxation also applies to the transfer of one's business to fund-owners. I am glad that the rapporteur nods, because then we have it in place. I think it seemed to me that the debate in the past did not include those structures, but I am glad that it is clear now. I would just like to know, in concrete terms, whether the radical rapporteur, when the Radical Left highlights this tax payment system that was introduced in the past, knows how many companies have used it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153341	I am not aware of that, but I think it is fair to say that a number of companies have waited for the turn of the generation if they could do so in connection with the change of government. So I don't know how much you can use such a number for. I think it's fair to say that if I had all the money in the world, and if I had a money tree growing out here in Prince Jørgens Gård, I would very much like to ease this inheritance tax. However, politics is sometimes a priority, and there are some things that are higher on our agenda, both when it comes to facilitating tax at work and when it comes to other tax relief in business. So when I mentioned it with the fund model, it was, to put it bluntly, to save some revenue and to target the relaxation, one might say, the companies that then certainly stay in Denmark. However, as I said, I have no ideological problems with the proposal here, because for us it is a matter of financial responsibility and spending money where it is best spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153434	That was a well-thought-out answer, because I think that if we get the latest figures out, it will turn out that it is a few companies that have taken advantage of the scheme, and I think that is from a fundamental view that it is not attractive. It stresses that there is a problem which arose and was reinforced when the previous government over the night abolished the property tax rate. I am not sure that was one of the joys of the Radical Left when you sat in the government, but so much about the past. I am just concerned to ask something: if it now turns out that updated figures emphasise that there are incredibly few companies that have taken advantage of the deferral scheme, could it get the Radical Left to reconsider its position?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153529	I do not think so, because we intend to spend the money in other areas, also for the benefit and benefit of the Danish business community. It is quite true that, when you sit in a government, I think the Left can talk to that in its current position, then you give and take something, and when we come to the government father again in a few months or at the latest a few years, we will, of course, once again sit there and have to find out where the money is best spent, and that is not a separate objective for us to then implement this tax. I'd like to say that. It is not an objective that we have that it should then be one of the first, but I just do not want to guarantee that we will not do so if it is the case that we cannot provide the funds that we find even more necessary for other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153613	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153616	It can at least be deduced that the Radical Left is absolutely certain that one day they will return to government. That is not necessarily the impression you get when you follow the media and listen to the social democracy, but it will be exciting to see. I would also like to say that it is quite fair to have priorities, that is politics. It is about priorities, as the rapporteur so well says. It must then be understood that the Radical Left would rather spend the money on something else and something more effective. You can certainly find something that will bring more growth and more employment. You could spend a billion more efficiently than on this, I think that's right, but now it's just like this one that's on the table, and that's what could be a majority more. But one could then lower the registration fee for one billion, that would be more effective; one could lower the top tax for one billion, that would be more effective; one could lower the corporation tax for one billion, that might also be more effective. But I would really like to hear what kind of proposal that would be more effective and which the Radical Left thinks they can bring in the Social Democracy and the rest of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153728-2	After all, it is tempting to enter into the negotiations of the next government on the basis of government. I am very keen to do so, and it is true that it will be exciting what it will look like. It must always be remembered that there must be 90 mandates to create a government or at least 90 mandates to support a government. So it is quite true that we will not be alone in deciding how to do it, but, on the other hand, I dare say that history attributes that it is not the case that we have no influence on what it will look like. It is not many days since we were here discussing a large number of proposals in the field of entrepreneurship. Deductions for investments for private and for companies investing in entrepreneurs, crowdfunding deductions in banks and all sorts of other things, as I remember Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was also quite enthusiastic about this, and where he said: 'We ought to get into that.' I think we could get a majority of that too widely in the Folketing very quickly, and I think we could get a very long way for 1 billion. kr. within that area. There are also long stretches on the personal tax where we could find common ground, and I would just like to call on Mr. Joachim B. Olsen to read our 2025 plan. There you can see everything we want and what areas we are looking at particularly in the field of business tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153846	It can be said that we are in a very favourable position in that we have a very great deal of room for manoeuvre to do well with the fact that I remember about 37 billion. kr. So many taxes can be reduced. But now there is this specific proposal, and I also hear from the rapporteur, that the rapporteur cannot say quite clearly what kind of initiative the rapporteur is sure to be able to get through with the Social Democracy, which will be more effective. We can agree that many initiatives can be found which, on paper and theoretically, will be more effective, but I would really like to hear what initiative we can get through, which will be more effective than this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404153934	So let me be even clearer. As I heard the debate on entrepreneurial allowances the other day, a very broad majority actually wanted to do so, including the Social Democratic Party and, incidentally, including the government, which had clear ambitions. For me, it has always been incredibly important, when you make this kind of legislation, to try to include as broad a majority as possible so that you are sure that the changes you make are going to last. I understand that, and that is why I understand all the questions from the side of the House that are asking me about it at the moment. I just want to say that it is they who are in government who are responsible for negotiating an agreement that is broad. This has not been wanted, in this case a narrow agreement has been made, and then we must also be accountable to those companies which cannot now be told with a hundred per cent certainty that this tax relief lasts. If the Radical Left had been involved and were prepared to file this relaxation, it would also have been able to stand after the next government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154032	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154044	Thank you. The bill we are now considering is the implementation of an agreement concluded between the current government and the Danish People's Party in the context of the 2016 Finance Act. The purpose of the agreement was to address the high costs that family-owned companies are experiencing in relation to generational change, and this is an agreement that the Conservative People's Party is very pleased about. We are in principle opposed to a settlement tax because we believe that it is an unfair double taxation between generations of money that has already been taxed once. That is our fundamental position on the inheritance tax. However, when it is more specifically about companies that are facing a generational change, it is no longer just about fundamental principles and opposition to double taxation, but it is also about business companies that are losing competitiveness and the possibility of making investments, because the fund needs to be drained of liquidity to ensure that the State can get its tax in connection with a new generation joining the company. It is not only unreasonable, but we also think it is unwise. Why should family-owned companies be penalised when they change ownership? It harms Danish business, it costs Danish jobs and damages exports in the companies involved. So there are 23,000 Danish companies in front of a generational change. Some are large and some are small, but for the vast majority they are small. It can be crafts, agriculture, shops, etc. Businesses include 300,000 jobs. Many of these family-owned companies are located in the outermost regions where they create local jobs. Often the family-owned companies have a special connection with the local area. I know that from where I come. Local businesses care about the local area, and that is not because they need a CSR strategy, no, they do so because they want to contribute to the local community, to cultural life and perhaps to social action. A generational change is in many ways a situation that creates major upheavals and challenges for a company. If, at the same time, the legislation presents some fiscal challenges, that means that business owners are forced to withdraw large resources from the company in order to pay taxes and taxes. It is not appropriate, of course, to present very great challenges for the companies involved, and this is a great frustration for business owners. But that's not really my biggest problem. The main problem is that competitiveness is affected and thus ultimately creates uncertainty about the company's operations and staff. It harms Danish business, and we must remember that family-owned companies account for about 70%. of Denmark's total exports. That is why we are very pleased that we can now reduce the tax to 5%. from the current 15%. over a number of years. This is a step along the way, although we will, of course, continue to work for our objective, which is the complete abolition of the tax. With those words, I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154407	Thank you. There's one question. Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154410	Thank you. It may be no wonder that the Social Democratic Party disagrees very much with Conservatives in whether or not to glorify the company owners, the heirs of these companies. In any case, we are not happy with the initiative that the government is taking here. I would like to start by asking two questions: firstly, this point of being against an inheritance tax in principle. So, when you work hard every day, get up and go to work and pay income tax, why is it that those who are born into a family should be able to take over large fortunes by taking over a company without it being taxed? Why is it that it is fair or reasonable for Conservatives? I simply do not understand that. Secondly, the fact that we have to hear again from a government party is that we are concerned about the outermost regions. Can we not also get a clear answer from Conservatives as to why it is not a progressive inheritance tax? If it is a question of small businesses outside the big cities, why is it that a progressive tax is not being made? Are you concerned about whether or not this proposal gives rise to inequality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154530	Well, this is about a principle. It's like, whether it's small or large. It is the case that in Denmark we have a relatively high income tax, we have a high marginal tax, top tax, we have a corporate tax, and then here we have some parents who would like to transfer a company, a legacy, what it may be, because they have saved up through a long life. So, after they have first paid income tax and paid corporate tax, are they going to pay an extra tax because they have not paid the money away? Because that was the alternative. They could have spent the money on a regular basis, and then they shouldn't have paid this charge if they had spent it on their children on a regular basis. But because they have then chosen to save up so that their children can get a large amount of money, they must be taxed on it. Actually, I think there's something wrong with that. That is why we are opposed to it in principle. Then it is true, as the rapporteur says, that these companies are precisely important for the local community. I know where I come from. After all, it is precisely those companies that are family-owned for generations who also go in and take ownership of the local community, and I think this is extremely important that we can safeguard and ensure that we can also be preserved in local communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154640	In fact, I thought it was clear that it is, whether small or large. Then we are back to the discussion that we had had earlier today, namely that this will benefit, for example, the landowners, which we saw DR uncover on Sunday, i.e. some of those who have the greatest wealth in Denmark. If you are the third generation of the family in which the estate has been inherited, then it is not because you haven't gotten the money away, it is because you are born into a rich family that you are entitled, in the eyes of Conservatives, not to have to pay taxes. And that is wrong when the rapporteur says that it is because the state must have its tax. No, it is because we have a social model in Denmark where we pay into the community. So would the rapporteur not also acknowledge that in this way we are moving away from the social model we have in Denmark today, where we want to contribute to the common fund, including by companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154731	This whole thing about what it really is for a type of company has been discussed several times during the day. It is by far the majority of these companies that have this relaxation: it is small businesses, it is craft businesses, it can be agriculture, it can be small shops, it can be small self-employed businesses who want to continue their business. But I don't think that's what this bill is about. For me, it's about whether we can make Denmark richer, and with this relaxation we make Denmark richer. That seems to me to be the essential point, and so I am not so interested in whether it is one type of company, because by continuing to reinvest their capital and not being forced to withdraw it in the context of a generational change, they maintain competitiveness, they can export more goods and preserve those jobs. I think this is more important than a discussion about whether a few people are getting more out of it than others, because this is basically about a lot of people enjoying it here, especially the 6 out of 10 employees who are actually employed in these companies and who benefit from maintaining these jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154835	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we have reached the point where we can welcome the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404154848	Thank you very much, President. I would like to thank you for a thorough debate on the legislative proposal. As a number of rapporteurs have said, it is a question of ensuring better conditions for family-owned companies. The Government's aim is to support growth development and employment throughout Denmark, and that is why we believe it is absolutely crucial to strengthen the conditions for the family-owned companies. There are between 40,000 and 60,000 family-owned companies in Denmark, and they account for 70%. of total exports at home and employs 6 out of 10 private employees. It says something about the real role of family-owned companies in our society. If you know a little history, you will also know how the family-owned companies make up the backbone of Danish business. There are some who want to draw a picture that the family-owned companies are large landowners or large companies, but it extends very far. They range from small craft and manufacturing enterprises, often located outside the major rural towns, to large global groups. That's everything from the little carpenter master, over the family-owned farm, to LEGO, as I think Mr. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten asked. Several of the leading companies in Denmark are or have been family-owned, and they are flagships in different areas within the Danish business community. Moreover, in many cases the family - owned companies have a very large local anchorage. They help to ensure jobs and growth in areas which could otherwise be easily offset by developments. We see that, for example. on Als, where Danfoss plays a huge role for the local community for Sønderborg, for South Jutland and for the catchment area there is. That would not be what it is today if Danfoss as an honorary Danish family-owned company had been there and remained there. That is why we in the government want to support the many small and medium-sized and large family-owned companies that are spread across the country and ensure these good conditions for growth and development. In any case, we do not want to go in the direction in which the previous government went, because they went in the completely opposite direction. Since the former SR government, without any compensatory reductions from one day to the next, abolished the asset tax rate at the beginning of 2015, it became significantly more expensive for family-owned companies to carry out a generational change. We criticized that too at the time. It criticized all the bourgeois parties. But that is what we now want to change, not by reintroducing the property tax rate, but by generally changing the rules of generational change for all companies. We want to ensure that the money stays in the company so that it can be invested in growth and jobs, and the picture some people are drawing from the fact that it is money that then goes to some company owner who already has plenty of money is a wrong picture. It is not the case that the money goes to the owner of the company, no, they stay in the company. If they were to be withdrawn, of course tax will have to be paid, as I believe Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, but when the money is not going into the Treasury in inheritance tax, it can be used to invest in employees, in equipment, in technology, in machinery and in growth and in jobs. The reduction in the amount of the residence and gift tax from the current 15%. 5%. Up to 2025, in the case of the transfer of business activities, the generational shift tax will be significantly reduced. Today, total taxation is barely 17 per cent when dividends are distributed to pay the estate and gift tax, with the adoption of the bill which I note there is a majority in favour, although I would like it to be greater, but it is a majority in favour of taxation being reduced to just under 6%. And it is whether the company is personally owned or a company. We are therefore talking about 23 000 family-owned companies with 300 000 jobs facing a generational change in the years to come. This is particularly important, because if we look at the period we have been through, there has been a change of generation, but as a result of the industrial development that Denmark has been through some decades ago, at some point there will be a ketchup effect for generation shifts, and I think we are facing this now, and especially at a time when a company can be forced into a generational change because the owner goes away, it is important that you have a fixed framework that you know what rules apply. And we have a good framework to ensure a generational change that allows the next generation to run the business further. For those companies facing the generational shift, lower taxation will, among other things, mean lower taxation. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. This will, of course, increase productivity and will create the basis for higher wages and more employees. In addition to the tax reduction itself, the valuation of the company is obviously important, and it is no secret that there has been a concern among some of these companies that we can see in the consultation answers and we have also been able to hear at a large number of meetings that I have had as tax minister in the process that has led to this proposal that, when the tax rate is reduced from 15 to 5, there are some who just want to expand the tax base, which was what the previous government did by abolishing the asset tax rate. There it has been important for me, as Minister of Taxation and for the government, also to provide security and certainty as to what rules apply to the valuation of companies. And that is why, in the context of the bill, we have ensured that in those situations where SKAT, the tax administration, finds that the valuation cannot take place after the so-called share and goodwill circuses, it will in future be the task of SKAT to demonstrate that the circulars will not give a true expression of the commercial value. This will ensure more transparency and predictability for businesses. Overall, the draft law is a major step in the right direction when it comes to ensuring a good and, by the way, fair framework for family-owned companies, but we in the government want to go further. Towards 2025, the Government's ambition is to take the final step, as was the ambition of the former Left Government, so that the transfer of a company to the next generation or to a commercial fund does not have to pay any tax on the estate, gift or transfer. We therefore want to ensure what can be called Swedish conditions or Norwegian conditions. Neither of our two sister countries, Norway and Sweden, has a residence and gift tax, which we have here in Denmark; they have abolished it years ago, among other things. with the same argument that I am putting forward here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament today. This will give Danish family-owned companies the same conditions as they have in Sweden, where, as I said, there is no housing and gift tax at all. Finally, the proposal on the success and reduced tax for real estate companies, which several consultation parties have mentioned, and I think that they have made a good, sensible argument during the consultation process, will be part of the further work to ensure better conditions for generational change. However, when you make such a proposal here, it is of course also a weighting of how much money it has been decided that there is available and what you want with them, and there it has not been possible to meet the consultation answers that relate to real estate companies. But we want to look at this constructively. Then I should like to say about the debate that has taken place, that one might well get the impression that the government wants to disassign family-owned businesses rather than foundations, rather than commercial funds. We do not want that, and that is why we are not only doing this reduction in the housing and gift tax for family-owned businesses, but also doing it in parallel for foundations. And it is our ambition, when it comes to completely removing the tax on housing and gifts, that it will apply both to commercial funds and to family-owned businesses. We share the desire, which includes: Social democracy has to ensure good conditions for the business funds, but we also just think that we owe it to good conditions for the family-owned companies. Then I shall correct the misunderstanding which I understand has arisen here in the course of the debate. I think it was Mrs Lea Wermelin who said that the Crafts Council should be sceptical about the bill, and there I am glad that the Crafts Council has followed the debate, because I can at least look at Twitter, that they write that they actually support the bill and support a cheaper generational change in family-owned and owner-managed companies. So I would like to ask that this is not the way to push the Crafts Council forward; it must be a misunderstanding. They support this proposal and I assume they will, because it will ensure better conditions for both fund-owned and family-owned companies. Finally, I would like to mention another element of the draft law which deals with the resumption of stock-taxed securities. I do not think there are so many rapporteurs who have referred to this, I think that the Conservative rapporteur was, but it is a small additional point in the draft law, namely that today the rules can lead to double taxation or double deduction. This has been criticised by advisers, and the proposal we have in this bill will ensure that it will not be possible to do so in the future. This is once again a sensible change. However, I look forward to a good and constructive committee reading, and I hope that in that committee process there will be several parties that will be convinced to vote in favour of this bill, so that we can not only ensure that it is adopted, but also that those companies that are facing a generational change, whether large or small, can know what rules apply, including on the other side of a parliamentary election. I think we owe them that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404155921	Thank you, Minister. There is one question from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404155927	Thank you. As the debate today has shown, we are opposed to the tax rebate that the Minister and the government will give to some of those who have the most in Danish society. But I would like to ask about what the Minister said about the fund-owned thing, because there has been a little longer discussion about exactly how it should end. If you adopt the proposal that is on the table today, it will give an incentive that seems wrong to choose to pass on your business to the next generation, although it would be better for the company to transfer it to fund ownership. That is why I just have to understand the Minister quite correctly. One thing is that you have a wish, but another is whether you want to work with the Social Democratic Party and say that it must then be tax-free to transfer to fund-owners. I would actually like to ask the Minister to elaborate on this. In relation to the crafts council, I merely quoted them for what they have said in the past, namely that they would rather do something other than what the government is up to today, and I just think we owe an answer to this when the Minister and the government parties are pushing the small and medium-sized realities ahead of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160042	I can confirm that we would like to cooperate on this. Unlike the Social Democrats, we in the government do not want to discriminate between the family-owned companies, i.e. family-owned as ownership, and commercial foundations. We think there should be good conditions for both. When the proposal for the commercial funds has not yet been implemented, it has to do with the work of the committee set in motion by the former Socialist Minister for Taxation. I think it was a social democrat who set it off; at least it was a social democrat who received the result, because that was Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. When you asked out in the funds for that proposal, they said: it doesn't matter, we can't use that for anything, it is the wrong model. Then my view as tax minister is that we don't need 360 million. kr. On something that no one wants. That doesn't make any sense. That is why we have set up a working group, and I have also had a good dialogue, and I would like to sign it with the Social Democratic Party, where we have agreed that this committee work should start. There has also been a bid for who is to sit as members; they have been appointed. They will work on it and then come up with a recommendation for a model on how to secure more commercial funds. Fortunately, money has been set aside: 360 million. kr., to make sure that can happen. It is the Government's wish that when we hope to achieve, by 2025, the complete removal of the residence and gift tax, it is a reduction that includes both the commercial funds and the family-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160206	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160209	It only gives extra blood to the tooth in hoping that we can take over government as soon as possible so that we can avoid all the misfortunes that this government will adopt. I would like to sign that you want to continue working on fund ownership, but one thing is a wish, and another is when something happens. So I would actually like to ask the Minister again to come a little closer. When can we expect such a model to be on the table? After all, we have also pressed for that model to be found together. So I would like to have a more specific indication of the time. So I should like to ask at the end of some of what we have discussed in connection with the proposal here: does the Minister believe that the reduction of inheritance tax contributes to more or less inequality in Denmark? I would actually like to ask for a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160258	You can calculate inequality in many ways. I do not believe that this proposal can be pushed into a discussion of inequality. I think that if you do that, you run the risk that some losers will lose out, and some companies are scattered all over the country. I should like to respond to committee questions on inequality and Gini coefficient and other issues. When I go out in reality and visit family-owned companies, I get a clear picture that if you are to survive a generational change and the company is not to close or be sold to some who are typically foreigners, it is important that we ensure proper framework conditions. This will result in the money not to be paid in tax, ensuring the company's survival and development. In relation to the second question on committee work, I believe, but I am not sure that the committee work should be completed here in 2017, and the conciliation parties, of which the Social Democracy is one, will be convened for a meeting. However, I should like to follow up on this in the subsequent committee procedure, and we can also check whether that work can be pushed forward. I want to take a positive view of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160407	There are no more questions. Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As there are no further questions, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160420	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160449	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing transport opportunities for pupils in youth education for young people with special needs, called STU. The proposal proposes that the government be required to ensure that STU students have access to purchase youth cards from August 2018. The proposal is based on the fact that the youth card can help STU students to have a good and active leisure life and become an integral part of society. STU is targeted at young people with disabilities and other young people with special needs who cannot complete another youth education, even if special educational or other support is provided. On the whole, I would like to begin by saying that I fully understand the intention to support good transport conditions for people with particular challenges. Today, the municipalities have full financial responsibility for STU and must also ensure the transport of the pupils to and from the educational institution on the basis of an assessment of the pupils' transport needs. Students at STU who do not need special assistance in transport will receive full reimbursement if they live more than 11 km from their place of education. Students in other upper secondary schools have to pay 360 DKK. per month in return for their youth card. At the same time, the youth card gives the right to free movement within the tariff area where the young person lives and a number of discounts in the other tariff areas. The current solution for students at STU is based on the individual's particular situation and individual needs. It can be argued that the present system in isolation is more advantageous than if pupils were offered the right to a youth card. The proposers suggest that the municipalities should offer the STU students a choice between two different transport schemes. To the extent that the STU students choose the youth card rather than the municipal transport, part of the funding will become state. Finally, it is proposed that the coverage of any additional contribution should be included in negotiations on the report of the Committee of Experts on better ways of improving youth training. And, as I said, there is a full understanding of the intention behind the proposal. The challenge, however, is that STU has not been involved in the work of the Committee of Experts nor is it part of the negotiations in question. The reason for this is that it has been hoped to await the outcome of a future evaluation of the STU, which is scheduled for reporting in August. I would suggest that the question of the conditions of carriage of STU students can be included in the follow-up to the analysis with a view to possible changes. At the same time, I would urge that, in the light of the analysis carried out in the Ministry of Education's field, the parties behind the youth card should examine whether they can agree to extend the beneficiaries, who have the right to obtain a youth card, to include STU students. So, in view of this, the government cannot collect support for the proposal, but is proposing to follow up the issue in the follow-up to the forthcoming analysis in August, and that the partners behind the youth card should examine whether agreement can be reached on extending the audience to include STU students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160808	There is a question from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160813	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's speech. What I wonder is that we now refer to the evaluation of STU, which is, of course, about whether the STU as such works and does what it has to do. What this proposal is all about is young people who are working well a long way along the way. They are, of course, in one way or another challenged because they are at a STU, but some of them attend production schools together with other production school pupils and are actually equally well functioning. I would like to ask whether the Minister does not agree that it is strange that when you go to the same school you do not have the same opportunities to transport yourself with your comrades, for example. to something in the evening, or whatever you might want, so that you actually had the same mobility as the comrades you now went to school with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160904	I understand the dilemma that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has been based on the fact that he has tabled the motion for a resolution. I can certainly do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160916	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160917	After all, it is always good to be understood that one can understand the dilemma. But could I have a clear answer as to whether it is not also strange for the Minister to go to the same school but to go to two different schemes? You cannot do the same things as the comrades you have, because you are now judged to be worse. You may even have a greater need to have social relations with your peers and to do things actively than so many other youths.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404160951	My answer to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl will be that in isolation one can argue that the present system is in some ways better than the youth card. But that is why we should like to see equality in the isolated area of the Youth Card. There is the fact that I am saying that we are going into a financial discussion, and I would in some way be more accommodating about that financing discussion, but the problem is that it is part of a conciliation circle which I do not have in mind and which lies in a completely different place, and then it is all messed up. That's why I swim around a little bit. I ask in all silence for an understanding of this so that it does not end with me apologizing or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161041	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161057	With B63 the proposers focus on transport for the students who attend STU youth programmes, i.e. programmes for young people with special needs. When it comes to young people with special needs, it is of course important that we, as a society, take responsibility for helping that very group of young people. This applies both to education and to their life as a whole. It is therefore also important to ensure the best possible framework for ensuring that the physical or mental state of young people and, as far as possible, their lives do not restrict the individual's ability to education or to participate in life at school or outside school, precisely in their spare time. Students who go to STU are students with special needs, and that is something we cannot avoid. As it is today, the municipalities have a duty to provide transport between school and home for those pupils who need it. And this is a quite flexible situation where there are a number of transport options available to the municipalities. The Social Democratic Party believes that the current system of free transport for students at STU between home and place of education is a very good one, and it ensures that pupils receive exactly the support for transport that they need and need to be able to take a youth education course. We are in favour of the intention contained in the motion for a resolution and the background to the proposal, which is basically very, very sympathetic. I'd like to sign for that. But the point is also that a very large proportion of the STU students are in such a situation that they simply will not enjoy a youth card, as they have a special and individual need for transport. At the same time, it is also important to look both at conditions and opportunities today and, above all, at the funding proposed in the motion for a resolution. Today, municipalities have a duty to offer a wide range of transport solutions between school and home, so they are many. Moreover, if you are able to do so, you can only have a companion with you in public transport if you are actually able to do so. One does not have to accept the offer to be carried in one of the municipal vehicles. However, we have to deal with the issue of funding, which is something we cannot avoid. And I just have to say that there is, of course, not full clarity about the economy in the proposal, not quite. It points in some directions and one of the directions in which it is pointed is that any expenditure should be covered by a reduction in the SU for migrant workers. However, the Minister has already noted that there is a conciliation group which belongs to a completely different Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, which deals with better and cheaper transport here, from which the youth card is financed. So the short thing is that, despite the intention behind this motion for a resolution, it is sympathetic, and we also share the author's view of it, it is the money. In view of today's transport opportunities and the proposal for financing in particular, the Social Democrats cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161422	There is a question from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161427	Thank you. I can hear that even though we are now up to spending 0.5 billion. kr. We are not able to find funding with the Social Democratic Party, and that is something I take note of. I hear it a little bit that the rapporteur says that the current system is actually very good, that there are many different modes of transport in the municipality, and you can bring a companion, etc. However, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not agree that although it is very good for those who have challenges and for those who need to get the help to transport from home and to the institution, the STU covers very, very wide, and the young people who in and for themselves are relatively well-functioning in many ways and are able to take a bus themselves will enjoy going out and visiting some friends with a youth card. Would it not be a sensible solution to say that we have a group at STU that needs the scheme that is today - I quite agree with that - but that, at the same time, we have a group that also needs and will be able to enjoy a system such as the Youth Card, which will give them precisely the mobility that they may need in their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161540	Yeah, but I think that's exactly what I said. I do not, of course, disagree with the intention to increase the opportunities for these young people to take part in leisure with their comrades, but I have to start from the specific point of view, and in the wording of the comments on the motion for a resolution it is partly unclear where the funding should come from, and partly it is unclear how many we are really talking about. I think that the authors of the motion for a resolution might have taken the trouble to find out in which direction we should point when we want some money, and also how many of these STU students we are talking about will be able to benefit from just one youth card.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161615	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161617	Well, I would have liked to be able to tell the rapporteur how many of them are involved, but that has not been possible in the Ministry, and that is why I have not been able to get any figures on it. I do not imagine that it is a huge group, but I see it as a huge need in them. That is why I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that if we can find another way of financing it, the Social Democrats are working to find a solution so that these young people can get the transport they need in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161649	Social democracy is involved in discussing the possibility in the relevant conciliation circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161655	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161702	Thank you for the floor. As a starting point, I think the proposal is quite sympathetic, but before we get to the proper treatment, allow me to note that if a skilled PhD student or political science student wants a subject that highlights the complicated crinkle-hook system of public bureaucracy, the present proposal is a textbook example of how to construct opaqueness. In fact, when the subject is dealt with here, it appears that the proposal is based on the Minister for Education and Research, who is the minister for the field, in and with the peripheral aspect of the SU legislation. The students and the pupils concerned are primarily resident with the Minister of Education, since they often go on a youth education course. And the funding lies in the transport companies and I can see that the minister in this area is also present, and we appreciate that in and with it the municipalities are helping to finance it. It complicates the procedure somewhat, and in reality it is a pity both for transparency and also for the Parliament's ability to see it through effectively and to make a decision. Surprisingly, I cannot add much new to what the Minister has already said. After all, we have spoken before the debate in the Chamber. Overall, we are positive. We recommend that after the evaluation, the conciliation group in the field of transport should address this issue. We will be kindly disposed to find a solution. However, we also think it is important that the STU students concerned have the opportunity to choose. My colleague from the Social Democratic Party and the Minister for Education and Research also noted that in some cases access to the Youth Card may be less favourable. However, I fully understand the need for this equality, and I also understand the feeling that this is really very much what the proposal is also based on when you get as a young STU student, when you experience that you do not have the same conditions as others, and that you do not have the same freedom of movement as the others you might go to institution or school with. To meet this need for equality I find quite sympathetic, and I would like to contribute to that, and the Left would also like to do so. From this line of argument, I am not surprised to say that we are not ready to support the resolution at this stage. We would like to take a positive view of drawing up a report in which we deepen the possibility, and we would then call for a potential solution to be looked at in the transport conciliation group. We are also kindly in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404161958	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162002	Well, I thank you for the commitment that we can make a constructive report; I think that is wonderful. But I need to hear the rapporteur where it is that you want to be worse off. I am aware that this means that there are two different arrangements: one where you are transported from home to the institution and back again for no money, and one where you get further mobility opportunities and thus also pay a little for yourself. But that one would be worse than the other if one were to target it to the groups that need one or the other I cannot see through. The rapporteur can explain that to me just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162035	Now, then, we must not make any effort to find a difference of opinion. What I was trying to illustrate is that it can be more expensive for the individual to buy this youth card than to be transported directly from A to B. And then, of course, there are some options when you have the card. You can travel further, and you may even be able to use these means of transport with others from school, high school, or other things, and that is what you pay for. But what is best for the individual must be up to the individual student to assess. So I think we should also just stress the need for free elections if we implement the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162117	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162118	I thank you very much for that answer and fully agree that this is, of course, about the individual and individual choice in terms of getting the solution that is best for the individual. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162130	Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162132	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162148	Thank you. I think it is an excellent proposal to allow pupils in specially organized youth education to purchase a youth card which will give them access to a number of cheap transport options which, unlike other young people today, they do not have access to. The authors of the proposals describe very well that many of the students at the STU today have access to free transport between their homes and their place of education. These are young people who live more than 11 km from the place of education. It will therefore be so in all its touching simplicity that for some pupils there will be no benefit to the youth card when it comes to transport between home and the place of education, but there will be a number of new transport options, for example. in the context of active leisure activities. Whether this will be of benefit to the individual young people, whom several people have already revolved around, will be different. This will depend on the distance between the person's home and the place of education, and it will depend on whether the young person is able or wants to have an active leisure life. That is why it will be based on a very concrete assessment for each young person, for some will be of benefit, because others will not be of benefit. Therefore, if this resolution should lead to a legislative proposal being adopted, it is very important that it becomes very clear that it is a genuinely free choice. That is how I read the motion for a resolution. With the cashier's thinking that we sometimes see in the municipalities, even when expenditure shifts from purely municipal expenditure to state expenditure, it does not require a much-developed imagination to consider that there might be municipalities that would think that it would be a huge advantage for young people to switch from a fully municipal-funded scheme to a state-funded scheme. That is why it would be very important for us that, if this leads to the adoption of the motion for a resolution, perhaps a report which I can see several rapporteurs point out could be an opportunity for us to be very sharp when it comes to legislation, that it is voluntary, so that we do not end up with some young people feeling pressured to opt for a transport system that is really not beneficial to them. It could perhaps be said, on the basis of a compensation principle, that with the group of young people involved, it would be reasonable for them both to have the transport system that they have today, that is to say, the transport between their homes and their place of training, and to be able to supplement it with a transport system that equates them with others in terms of leisure time, because part of the young people who go to the STU is just as much more difficult than other young people in terms of moving around in their leisure life. So maybe that's something you could look at. That is not the point of the proposal, and that is why I would just like to say that I think that consideration could be taken into account in the further process. But we can support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162520	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is right that motion for a resolution B 63 is extremely well suited to illustrate the way in which we in the Danish Parliament sometimes have the ability to do things very, very complicated. Youth courses for young people with special needs, the so-called STUs, are, as has already been mentioned, generally administered by the Ministry of Education and in the day-to-day administration of the municipalities. The specific arrangement we are discussing lies in the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, and since we are also dealing with an SU-related issue, it is the Minister of Education and Research who is currently dealing with the issue. The high degree of complexity of the proposal also influences the position of the Liberal Alliance on motion for a resolution B 63. There is no doubt, as the other rapporteurs have also said, that the proposal for a great many young people in the target group, so to speak, will work very well. Why should young people with special needs not be able to benefit from a youth card under the same conditions as other young people? But the situation of the STUs, combined with the situation of the youth card, is so complex and ministerially transversal that, like the Minister and Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt therefore believes that the best thing is to follow up the issue on a later occasion when the STUs are analysed in the Ministry of Education and when the parties behind the youth card have the opportunity to discuss the matter. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we imagine, as has been said before, that it must be possible to conclude the debate on the motion for a resolution with a report reflecting the positions expressed in the past. In fact, as the last thing I would like to say at this stage, I should like to say from the Conservative People's Party that this is where we take the same position as the other two parties of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162816	Thank you. I am here to replace my colleague Carolina Magdalene Maier, who could not be here today. I have listened to the debate, but I maintain the position of Carolina Magdalene Maier, in other words that we are actually in favour of the proposal here. We think this is sensible and we would like to help young people with special needs to have the same conditions as their fellow students. On the other hand, I also hear from the Minister that there is such a desire to look at this, but that the timing and shape may not be the right one. So, of course, I will leave it to my colleague to find out whether we also maintain that we will vote in favour later on; it must be taken in committee. But at least we are in complete agreement with the intention, and if we are going to wait for the analysis, we will have to look into it. But the alternative is currently in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162903	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404162909	Thank you for that, President. In the Radical Left, we are starting from the point of view that all proposals which provide young people with special needs with better educational opportunities or, at the very least, better opportunities in life are good proposals. After all, we have been working for many years to get the STU, and in recent years we have been working hard in all the contexts we could get to it, in order to actually ensure that it will be the individually organized training that we have agreed with each other, but with which we did not quite succeed around. Therefore, we also look with sympathy at this proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is of course about the youth card and the transport options. If I am unable to support the motion for a resolution then there are two reasons for this. Firstly, I am surprised that the proposal has been tabled as a motion for a resolution at all. For me, that would be much more logical at home in the negotiations we are about to have on the new preparatory youth education. Because if we are to succeed in the task of providing young people with an even better and more coherent offer than today, then we have to go right into the engine room and tamper with the economy to ensure that there is equal opportunities. That is why I think it is obvious that the opportunity is being used to look at what the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, namely that it is also a question for young people to have the same opportunities as their peers. At the same time, and secondly, I think it is irresponsible to put forward a proposal for which there is no funding. Because if the purpose of this proposal is simply to be able to tell the young people at STU that they have now put forward proposals on it and, by the way, they have not financed it, then unfortunately it is not worth anything. So I would like to say from the radical side: let's keep working together to look at this when it makes sense. I also heard the Minister of Education say that he actually thinks it is a good idea. I have noted that in my little brown book, and then we can come back and see if we can actually do something in that area when it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163123	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163126	Thank you. I certainly believe that we have clear funding and that there are plenty of resources in what is proposed in the proposal. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur about the fact that, as it were, a greater coherence is being referred to. We have heard the expert group, which actually recommends keeping STU out of the process we are about to start, and we will certainly not solve this. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is, in itself, a small corner which could help some students to get the same conditions as the others with whom they are going, and that this is something we could resolve relatively quickly if we could agree to say that we sit down together and find funding that everyone can accept? So what I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur not agree that this is a small problem which we should be able to resolve relatively quickly to the benefit of this group of STU students who really miss this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163221	Yes, I think there is something that suggests that we can actually get a majority in the Folketing that will look at it. But it has to make sense, and when I think it makes sense to see it in the context of the new preparatory youth education, it is because for me it is not just about the new education and we have to talk to the government about that, but because it is also about the offers that are around. Because if we do not look at the possibility of going to high school too, using the day schools and the free vocational schools and ensuring good opportunities for students at the STU, then I do not think that the task has been solved. In relation to the economy, I just have to say that the Danish People's Party has not done any calculation of the cost, but has made such a loose formulation that you can always find some money through the foreign students. We in the Radical Left believe that it is very good that so many Danes read and study abroad, and thus also that it is good that some come and read here with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163318	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163320	This is, of course, a completely different discussion. We can also wrap this up so much ambition to solve the whole problem with all the young people that we are not really getting anywhere. I would just like to point out that I think this is a real issue. It has nothing to do with whether you should be able to attend school after school or college or anything else. It is quite trivial whether you can get around your local area in an appropriate way and in the same terms as all the other young people you now go along with every day. I would therefore like to ask again whether the Radical Left could not be prepared to agree to a solution. The Radical Left is part of this conciliation circle on transport, where the youth card is located. So will the Radical Left be positive about looking at it in the conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163408	Yes, we are positive about it, but I still have to say that I am surprised that the Danish People's Party has tabled it as a motion for a resolution. Because I think it is strange to put it forward as a proposal taken out of context, and it has not even made any effort to calculate what it costs and thereby allocate funding. So let us use the goodwill of a broad majority in the Folketing to look at the opportunities of young people, but let us do it where it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163437	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163443	Thank you. I just want to ask you something about funding, because you can turn it around a little and say: what does it cost today to transport these young people in various ways to the STU programme? Well, maybe this was pretty self-financing. After all, the youth card is financed through •Better and Cheaper Public Transport • From a pool where the Radical Left itself is part of the conciliation circle. So it could be that this was basically self-financing rather than sending young people around in taxis. Have any thought been given to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163513	Well, the Danish People's Party could have clarified that correctly, because if it turns out that it costs 0 DKK, I think it will be a somewhat easier discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163522	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163524	I am just looking forward to the next proposal we will be dealing with in this Chamber. I hope that the same rapporteur is present because there is no funding indicated, and that is a proposal from the Radicals. But we can then come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And the next in line is mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163547	In the SF we think this is an excellent proposal. I have also read the explanatory statement in the comments, and I really think that one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party has made this proposal is that the party has had some of the same experience that I have had when I have visited STU programmes around, where you have been sitting in panel debates and talking to the students, and where the students have then asked: Well why is there a difference between us and the students on some of the other courses • Why can we not get a youth card that some others can get? In fact, I have also experienced a question such as this one.: Why do we have one benefit when you have another benefit on some of the other courses? And I'm asked, why can't we get a loan when someone else can get loans? This shows that there is something basically nagging the young people out there at least as I see it. They feel like students, and they are And there's a youth card after all a little thing, but nevertheless one thing that matters. That is why I think it can be resolved, just as it has been done in relation to the production schools. I would also just like to say that I think it is quite reasonable comments that have been made that it should be a voluntary scheme. In other words, it must not be the case that some of the young people who today feel very good about the present system, because they have special needs, will have to switch to a system that is bad for them. So if you're going to continue working on this, I think it should be some kind of voluntary scheme where those who feel best about having a youth card can get it, and those who feel best about the present system can stay on it. So I think we should work on a report. In addition, I think there are two ways to go. In relation to one way, I would like to say that I believe this, among other things. is part of the debate on the preparatory offer. Now I know that the Minister said that STU is not, as a starting point, part of that discussion, and it may also be that it is not in the expert group, but of course STU and the benefits will also be part of that debate, because the young people are part of that group. So I also believe that this is a place to raise such a debate on benefits in general. And then I also think that we need to sit down and it would be appropriate to be in the Better and Cheaper Public Transport and to look at the young people's transport discounts. For one thing, the youth card on the STU is another: there have generally been savings on the transport discounts for young people in Denmark. It has become significantly more expensive to go to Slagelse, to Vordingborg, to Kalundborg, where I come from, and it is at a time when we want more young people to study in some of the smaller cities. I think that is a problem. Could it be something that was taken up in the context of such a scheme here, I think it would be exciting. And that could be appropriate in the Better and Cheaper Public Transport Circle, and it could also be that all parties in general said: this is something we want to look at. Finally, I would like to say that we would very much like to continue working on this. In relation to the financing, which has been raised, I would like to say that I do not know whether the Danish People's Party sees the Social Fund for migrant workers as such an inexhaustible fund, because that was also the proposal to finance the disability allowance for vocational training students. I think that is sensible if you could find that money. But I believe that what is needed is for these many good proposals to be brought together and for us to sit down and say: can we finance this in a place where it is actually possible, including with the parliamentary majority that is today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163918	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404163928	Thank you. I know a guy named Peter. Peter lives on Funen. Peter was having a hard time in primary school, a special class, and, frankly, didn't get much out of going there. After elementary school, Peter did not attend a special school until at Svendborg. Peter made quite a few friends in different places on Funen. When he got home after elementary school, he goes to production school. As a student at the production school, Peter can buy a youth card at an affordable price, which means that he can visit his friends from the post-school around Funen. He can also go with his friends from the production school to Odense, with no extra cost. Then it turns out that Peter needs a STU run. It is granted, and Peter starts at STU at the same production school he was at before. The school now tells Peter that he can no longer buy the youth card. He gets his bus card paid from home to school, but on the other hand, the possibility of going around Funen disappears. All of a sudden, it's gonna be a matter of finance if Peter can go out with his friends. Peter slips just as quietly out of the communities. We must do what we can to support everyone, especially the weakest, in being part of some communities. This is an important part of being able to take care of oneself and find the motivation to take care of oneself. This proposal is about giving equal opportunities to those who can use and will use the opportunities. It is also at the heart of the proposal that it has been mentioned by several of the rapporteurs that it should be voluntary. For the STU group as it stands today, it is so broad that there are both those who absolutely need to be picked up and driven and are not able to take any forms of public transport, and then there are those who might actually be at a production school, but have been offered a STU and go there and wonder that they just can't do the same things as the comrades they have. But I am very pleased with the debate, because apart from the fact that we can discuss funding, I really hear very positive tones in producing a report that carries this proposal forward so that we can find a solution. Then we can discuss how much of it should be in the discussions we are going to have on youth as such. I do not think we need to wait for the evaluation of the STU that comes after the summer break, because it is, in fact, an evaluation of how the STU works, whether it does what it should do. After all, it is not about whether young people are mobile or can accept one or the other offer. So I would like to hope that we can agree to take a look at this sooner. It can then be said in the report whether it can be assigned to the better and cheaper public transport company, or whether some other means can be found. I have also been asked what it really is that this costs and how many it is about. I have asked in the ministries, but I have not been able to get an answer. And, of course, this is something that lies out in the municipalities and that it is not easy to make up for how many of the young people will choose it when it has to be voluntary to be able to choose it. And there will be funding in the municipalities that disappears and then goes over and becomes state funding. It's very complex, and it's been one of the themes here that this issue is almost so complex that it's hard to relate to. I do not think that should prevent us from finding a solution, and I hope we can do that afterwards. In any case, I am confident from here with the belief that we will find a good and sensible solution to this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164256	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164312	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164338	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the government is very concerned about creating the right framework for embracing new technology. We are therefore, as a rule, open to developing the regulatory framework so that technological progress can be made. It is essential that new technologies that can benefit our society should not be put at a disadvantage than the technological solutions that are already in place on the market. We are already doing a great deal to create the opportunity for the green conversion of the car park. Energy efficient cars benefit from both the registration fee and the green ownership fee. We also support the spread of cars using alternative propellants. Firstly, this is done through the limited-term reductions in vehicle taxes on electric cars and fuel cell vehicles. Secondly, it is through the development of infrastructure for the distribution of alternative propellants, which is part of Denmark's compliance with the EU directive in this area. In the field of road transport, Member States shall, inter alia: ensure an appropriate number of electric charging points by 2020 and an appropriate number of charging points for compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas in 2025. Today, the development of electric cars is largely driven by the competition to be able to deliver a range corresponding to what is expected of a modern petrol or diesel car. In fact, with a possible decision to phase out competitors' electric cars, part of the developmental incentive that today drives some of the ambitious car manufacturers would be at risk. In other words, there would be no guarantee that a regulation which phases out fossil cars would mean a force for the development of electric cars, perhaps quite the contrary. As you know, the car market is global. In this context, the Danish market for cars is almost insignificant, and we must be realistic about the fact that we can only to a very limited extent influence the development and production of cars through special marketing conditions in this country. The government wants to support the development of new technology driven by the competition to deliver the best and most secure cars to consumers. This is among other things. Given that it has been decided that electric cars from 2020 and fuel cell vehicles from 2023 will be fully phased into the registration fee and will therefore have to compete under the same market conditions as petrol and diesel cars. In my opinion, if we are to seriously influence developments, we will get the most out of doing so internationally. On the Danish side, we have the opportunity to work for a common EU legislation on CO2 proposers will, with the proposal, require the government to carry out an analysis of the phasing-out of fossil-powered passenger cars. Such an analysis shall include, as indicated in the observations made in the proposal, a very comprehensive assessment basis. The Government therefore considers that such an analysis is not justified at this stage and does not therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164704	There is a question from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164710	Thank you, Minister. After all, this proposal is not about deciding now when there should be a ban on the sale of fossil cars. This is basically about getting more knowledge, getting more knowledge of what we can do to promote the green transition of the transport sector, so that we move to where we can say that it should no longer be possible to sell fossil cars. I cannot really understand this resistance to gaining more knowledge in terms of promoting a change, which I assume the Minister also agrees with is indispensable. Well, we have to get away from the fossil fuels. That's what all climate science says. Why not use this opportunity to get smarter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164756	I agree that our car park in Denmark will be replaced over a number of years by cars running on renewable energy, which have been collected, for example. via wind turbines or solar cells or the like. This will happen when technological developments are ready for it. I do not think we can force that development so that we can already do so, for example. 2025, and it is also doubtful whether this can happen by 2030. What the resolution asks me to do is to analyse what will happen if you do something that I do not think is realistic, and I find it difficult to argue with myself on behalf of taxpayers that they should spend money analysing what will happen if you do something that is not realistic by 2025 and probably not 2030 either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164847	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164850	But does the Minister not recognise that if we look at some neighbouring countries, there are other countries that are doing much more to spread electric cars, spreading cars that drive other than fossil fuels, so that we could actually do more in Denmark as well? Then I heard the Minister say in his speech that more work will be done on the EU track. Can't the Minister elaborate on that? After all, the Swedish climate minister has mentioned that he believes that we should create a general EU ban. Is this something that Denmark will then go in and support, given that the Minister is looking for an EU track?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164927	In the EU track, we expect the European Commission to make a proposal in 2017 on the requirements that will apply after 2020, 2021. Denmark has already in 2016 called on the European Commission to tighten CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164952	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404164954	Thank you. After all, the minister is talking about international solutions and the EU track and so on. After all, we hear a number of countries discuss phasing out fossil cars at a rather serious level, precisely because several countries have ambitions to live up to some of the agreements we have made internationally. I would really like to hear the Minister: in relation to the talks that are in the Netherlands, Sweden, India, where is the government also to offer these serious talks about how to convert our transport sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165035	As I also mentioned to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, I believe that cars will be replaced when technological developments are ready for this. I recognise that politicians may need to say that they are the cause of development, by standing and talking a lot about this happening, by standing and demanding that this should happen, and that is a political need that many politicians have. However, I am convinced that this is happening, regardless of what politicians are talking about, and that the fact that politicians talk about it does not lead to it happening faster than it really will.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165110	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165112	The Minister's colleague, the Minister for Energy, said in the Chamber on 1 March: the government therefore has an ambitious climate policy to ensure that emissions of greenhouse gases and consumption of fossil fuels for the transport sector fall towards 2050, and this should only be done by means of technological developments. Should we just look at the fact that this is happening, or is there any need perhaps to investigate what means we should use to actually see the fall that is hard to see if we can still buy fossil cars in 2049?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165145	It is very easy for me to see but it may also be related to the fact that I own an electric car that it will happen all by itself, because what today prevents people from buying an electric car is the price of the battery. With the expected development at battery price in the international markets, the battery will quickly fall in price as new battery factories are created, and at some point you may also get a battery revolution, where new battery types can be discovered that are more and cheaper. Knowing that the power car technology itself, i.e. the production of an electric car with motor and transmission, etc., is actually a less complicated process than the production of a car with diesel fuel or petrol, leads me to my analysis that this is happening all by itself, and this is also happening earlier than the year 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165233	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165237	I'm wondering a little bit about the minister. And I do so because the Minister stands on the platform and says that he has sent a message to the Commission that something has to be done in this area, while saying that political demands are in such a way indifferent, that is to say that what politicians say does not matter. That doesn't make sense. So that is quite contradictory. Can't we agree on that? For what has happened in areas such as agriculture, agriculture and fisheries. When the Montreal Protocol was adopted and freon gases were abolished. Then the refrigerator companies Gram and Vestfrost developed refrigerators without freon in Denmark. This is just an example in which something new has been created through political pressure. Does the Minister not agree that it also helped to push the car industry to develop when Ritt Bjerregaard, as the current Commissioner, called for the car industry to be able to drive at least 25 km. per A gallon of gasoline? How can the Minister say that political pressure means nothing and that we politicians mean nothing and then spend all our time being ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165337	We are talking about two different things. One is the phasing out of fossil cars. This will happen, I believe, by itself and also by the year 2050 as a result of technological developments that will allow cars running on renewable energy to be more attractive for consumers to buy than cars running on diesel or petrol. The second is that with the current technology, where most people drive around in petrol and diesel cars, it makes sense to influence the process via the EU system, which requires CO2 from cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165409	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165411	Thank you. Then we got in place that political demands and political influence also matter to the car sector. When you look very soberly at the government's own figures, namely the energy statement presented by the government three weeks ago, it shows very clearly that if you do nothing about transport, 95% will. of the cars that drive around Denmark, actually still be petrol driven by 2030, and 95 per cent. of the cars are quite many. Now the Minister is saying that this development will take place on its own. But isn't it thought-provoking that we're going to experience that the CO2 What's it gonna be? I therefore agree with the Minister that volume means something to bring down the price. We can share that view. But what makes this volume rise? We can look to Norway, where we have chosen to remove the tax on electric cars, and thus ensure that the volume increases. Will the government be open to that if the government is not open to doing an analysis of this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165522	One thing is at least one hundred percent certain, namely that if we make political decisions in some way that there may not be fossil cars in Denmark by 2025, which this motion for a resolution may have as one condition or another, then Danish society will lose mobility to a considerable extent, because technology at that time may not yet be ready. And that will mean that it will only be the richest Danes who can afford a car at that time, and that people who have little money will not be able to afford to buy cars because of the requirements that we might have to meet to reach a fossil-free car market in Denmark by 2025, which the proposers here are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165602	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165611	Thank you. That is precisely why we would just like to ask the government to make an analysis of what will happen if we imagine the phasing-out in 2025 and 2030 respectively. We're gonna have a problem if it's 95 percent. fossil cars by 2030 and we have to be done with the story called fossil energy by 2050, because when a car lives for 15 years, we are close, because that's about where it's gonna happen. So does the Minister feel sure that it will happen around there, so that the last fossil car will actually be driven to scrapping before 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165642	It is true that it is not certain that the last fossil car has been driven to the chop-up in 2050. That's what I'm gonna give you, sir. Christian Poll. What I am thinking of is that I believe that by 2050 we have reached a situation in which all new cars sold run on fuels other than petrol or diesel. When I have something against this analysis and to use money and resources to initiate this analysis, it is because I think that its subject area, the analysis, is unrealistic. It is unrealistic to imagine that we don't have fossil cars driving on fossil fuels in 2025 and 2030, and therefore I do not think it is justified to spend resources on doing the analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165730	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165731	Yes, but then it is precisely that you can look to Norway and see that when you have really given it gas, there will also be many cars out of it over a fairly short period of years. That is why it is interesting to imagine that we are doing this in time for the Paris agreement, because what will it cost, then, what will it take to get things moving so that it can happen quickly enough? That is why we want an analysis. So the minister doesn't see the sense in setting up this scenario to phase out, and what's it gonna take? Let us look at the means and the price of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165808	We could do what we did in Norway, that is. retain our high registration fee on cars at home, but exempt electric cars. The reason why there is a majority of parties in this Parliament who have not wanted to do so is that the loss of registration fees in the Treasury prevents funding for all those things which, among other things, are not. the authors of this resolution would like to spend money on the public sector. What we looked into was that more and more Danes would buy electric cars without registration tax, and that the proceeds from the registration tax would be smaller, smaller and smaller, so that there would not be money for all the social benefits and welfare benefits for which the left wing in Denmark would particularly like to spend money. So it therefore requires the left to find alternative funding for these things or to make efficiency improvements that allow us to do without the registration fee. The Liberal Alliance has done the math of dispensing with registration fees if we do some things, but I have not yet seen the left do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165906	Mrs. Sanne Bjørn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404165908	Now I was actually thinking that I should ask something else, but the last remark made me think anyway. The Minister mentions funding for the registration fee, but the government and the minister's own party have just reduced the registration fee themselves. So that is a political priority. The Minister does not have to answer that question. The minister says that he drives the electric car himself, and compared to all the people who have invested in an electric car, and all those who don't do it any more. Unfortunately it's a fact that a car has a lifetime, and it's an investment, so you have to have a reasonable condition to know the value ahead in order to be able to take a car loan. If we were to have a thorough analysis so that decisions could be taken on an enlightened basis, would the Minister not agree that it might be advantageous to create a framework for the sale of cars and not only for fossils, but also for those who come in the future, which are not fossils, that is what we know about? Could it not be good to have a good basis on which to make your decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170020	Should I understand that an analysis of a situation in 2025, which we do not have realistic conditions for achieving, will give Danish car consumers a better chance of assessing which car they are going to buy now and towards 2025? Having said this from the platform, I have not heard anyone contradict me, given that it is unrealistic to imagine that we do not have fossil cars in 2025. However, I understand that an analysis of what would happen if we had it will still help consumers in some way, and I just find that very difficult to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170101	Mrs. Sanne Bjørn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170102	What we want is a basis for comparison. We need to calculate and analyze the effects that may be when we phase out fossil fuels for cars. What are the consequences of this? Then we can make some decisions. And it is not unrealistic to do so, it is just an analysis work, so we have some facts that you can make decisions on the basis of. I must say I do not understand the Minister's opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170133	I can only repeat what I have said in the past so that understanding may spread. I do not believe that what the resolution asks the government to analyse is a realistic scenario for the future. Because it is not a realistic scenario for the future, I find it difficult to convince myself that resources need to be used to analyse what is going to happen, i.e. something that is not realistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170159	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170203	Thank you. Will the Minister confirm that political action can be taken which has an impact on what people spend their money on? And I am thinking of the tax agreement reached a year and a half ago. For the facts are that in the first quarter of this year 35 electric cars have been sold, while 60,000 fossil cars have been sold in the same quarter • 60,000 fossil cars compared to 35 electric cars. Is that not an economic incentive, on the other hand, not to buy electric cars? Now the minister has an electric car, but it's not certain I don't know the minister would have bought a Tesla if it had been as expensive as it is today. The Minister says that what you decide politically does not have so much to say, but does the Minister not agree that when you decide something political in this regard, namely to put taxes on, it affects people's incentive to buy an electric car? This is usually the logic of all sorts of other economic policies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170309	Yes, I can confirm that, and yes, I agree with that. It is probably also true that we in my family would probably not have been able to afford to buy that car if we had not bought it before tax was imposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170320	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170321	I appreciate the answer. Then I will also follow up on what Mrs Sanne Bjørn said. It is not about whether you can afford to spend the money in one way or another; it is about a priority, because you could afford to spend a quarter of a billion on lowering the registration tax on petrol cars, a quarter of a billion could be found. If the Minister then says that the Left could not finance a continued tax exemption, I would say that that is not true; I even think that the Minister and I were in the same negotiations where we presented one financing proposal after another. But it is true that there was no political support for it, and that was among other things. to look at all the bizarre things that you can still get deducted from, even if it's standard equipment. So we actually had some different funding proposals, including just as an example to raise the crack a little bit. So does the Minister not agree that it is a matter of priorities and not of finding the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170424	Yes, and those of us who give priority to lowering the registration fee for all cars have found the money so that it can happen. The Left in the Folketing, which had the majority until shortly before a decision was taken to tax electric cars, did not use the time when there was a majority to allocate money to continue freeing electric cars, because it was actually difficult to find money on the left. The government on the left couldn't find the money. Then there will be a new majority, and then this new majority will be criticised for not being able to find the money that could not be found either. That is of course a pity, but you also had the opportunity to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170510	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170533	First of all, many thanks to the proposers for highlighting this very important issue of getting a more green and environmentally friendly car park. There is no doubt that it is extremely important for us to have this change, and when we look at the transport sector as a whole, there is no doubt that it is a sector that is very much in relation to the total CO2 2 that there is absolutely no doubt about that. The most important thing in this work is to ensure at the negotiating table that we are going to have some changes that in turn make it more attractive to choose electric cars. That's what's most important. Specifically, in the context of the negotiation of better and cheaper public transport, we have set aside money for electric buses in Aalborg, and it will also be relevant to look at ensuring equality between the tax paid for electric buses and the one paid for electricity for trains. There are quite a lot of differences between them today, and it is reasonable, if we want to promote electrical alternatives, that we should then also have a look at the charges there. We, as transport rapporteurs, do not have that part of it, but I understand my colleagues working with that part of it, that it is in good health and that we are working hard on it, because there is no doubt that that is what is needed to promote the sale of electric cars. Then there is the specific motion for a resolution here. It's going to mean you're going to have to do an analysis in this area. Perhaps I am a little surprised that it has not been decided to put specific questions to the Minister. I mean, it's free as a member of the Folketing to ask questions to the Ministry to get some of these things enlightened. Should there be another motion for a resolution to put this on the agenda? Yes, it gives us the opportunity to have this important debate in the Assembly, so thank you for that. But is this necessarily the way to promote this? I'm not so sure. When you look at the resolution itself, it also seems a little bit bastant in its demands. I am thinking that there is every reason to phase out our fossil fuel cars. That's the vision of the future, that's what we have to do. Moreover, you have shown the way from the social democratic side in Oslo and Norway, where a great deal is happening in this area. But are we imagining a regime where it is not even legal to get off in its veteran car, which still drives away on fossil fuel? It almost looks like there's going to be a ban on veteran cars. Maybe I think that's a little boring. The wording is also used to force development. I know that it can be interpreted there, that we have to put turbos on, that we have to speed things up and that now we just have to move fast, but we also know the word in this context that we are pushing something, that is to say that we are doing something unnecessarily fast so that we do not get everything along the way. There I think one might have been a little more busy sitting down to the keys and writing something than one has had to think about properly what is really the way forward here. So, on the socialist side, I would like to say that we are very, very positive about many of the tactics in this resolution. We also understand that the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate is on the way with a strategy in this area and that there will be analyses and figures in this area. So the question is whether the authors of the motion simply have to put some questions to the Ministry and then get it clarified in that way. Otherwise, we in the Socialist Group would like to take part in this in committee and make a report which could then help to get some of this information out. Because the direction in this is quite right, and setting the agenda is quite right. To make it as manifest as this is where you smoke people out of the veteran cars, I think maybe it's just to tighten it up. There we would like a slightly more pragmatic approach from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170949	So far there are three who will ask questions, and the first is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404170955	Let me begin by recommending that the rapporteur read the proposal again. It is only two and a half lines, so it should be affordable. It says: "Please phase out the sale of passenger cars." It is no longer a question of driving in the car you already own. It is a question of saying: now we have reached a point where the new cars n-y-e cars that are sold are driven by a different propellant than fossil fuels. I am glad that the rapporteur is accommodating in landing a report, but let us now try to be honest about what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171039	I might as well admit it as it is: I always get a little pressured when I'm in the debate with Maria Reumert Gjerding, and I also get just as unsure whether I have now read the proposal. But, of course, I do, and if it is a sale, then it is also a sale of vintage cars. There are people who every day are on the Internet looking for the car they've been dreaming of for several years, and then they buy a veteran car. And when you write sales, it will also be covered that way around. That's why I just pointed it out. It is not the most important thing here, but for the sake of the people who care about it, we must be careful not to make them unduly nervous in this area. That's why I just mentioned it. We in the Socialist Group fully support the idea that we should have a development in which we will have much more electric cars and we will have much more public traffic running on electricity. That is the way forward and we want to work on it. Whether the way forward is actually to force developments, I can be a little skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171142	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171143	Well, let's finally make it crystal clear in the report that everyone has to sell their used car and their veteran car at home in the garage, etc., and that this is about us politically wanting to promote it here... let's use a different word than force the development road, the green transition of the transport sector, so we follow the progressive countries around us and get to where what is being sold on the Danish market is green cars that are not driven by fossil fuels. I think that is a positive perspective, and I am very pleased if the Social Democrats will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171215	Well, thank you very much to Enhedslisten for this constructive approach to it. In this spirit, we would like to continue in the Committee on Transport, where we would like to look at perhaps a report on this. For this development is absolutely necessary, we are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171231	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171235	Thank you. Now I also had to read the proposal again, and I find that it actually says: 'Delete the sale of passenger cars running on fossil fuels'. The intention was to say "new." That is what we mean, and we must make that clear in the work of the committee. So these are new passenger cars at the time. That is why veteran cars are not a problem in themselves, because they were bought many years ago, and it is a matter of a few thousand who drive very few kilometres a year. So that's no problem at all with this proposal. I just want to hear from the Social Democratic Party how it is intended to be assured that fossil cars will be phased out in time for the Paris agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171328	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Christian Poll from the Alternative is also open and honest that you could have written it more accurately. It is of course important, when we have these debates in Parliament, that we also point out the places where you could be more precise, otherwise there will be the hundreds, if not thousands of enthusiasts who follow in relation to veteran cars, and think: Whoa, what are they doing now? Don't you think it's gonna be quite forced? So it is a good thing to clarify this, so we shall have a discussion on this in committee. As far as promoting development is concerned, what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech is that we need to look at tax policy so that choosing an electric car becomes more attractive. We must have a look at this, but I am not the transport rapporteur who is negotiating it. It's our tax rapporteur, and I'm sure he's working hard on that. In the first place, we aim to achieve equality in public transport, so that electric buses are not significantly more expensive than electric trains. It is a step in the right direction. I would very, very much like to see it also becoming attractive to buy electric cars, and that is the development we need to have. There I think we can be inspired by some of what they have done in Norway. But I also know it's incredibly difficult to find the money, so I have to be careful that I'm not going to stand and promise a whole lot that I can't live up to anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171450	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171452	That is also why we are actually just asking for an analysis. And you could almost see it as a subsidy and tax analysis that we are also talking about in the energy sector, i.e. an analysis of what it takes if we imagine that we would like to phase out new fossil cars in 2025 and 2030 respectively. I guess the Social Democrats could do that, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171515-2	Well, I think it's a good idea to get new knowledge in this area. Now I understand from the government that there is something coming from the Ministry of Energy, but we are happy to contribute to asking some questions or to landing a report where we get the agenda for this, so that we can examine what we can do, what is of challenge and what is of opportunity in this area. It makes really, really good sense. We are very happy to cooperate constructively, including with the alternative, in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171542	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171543	Thank you. Now the rapporteur thinks that is the wrong way to deal with this. In fact, I think it is a very sensible way of doing this, taking this as a motion for a resolution and taking that debate in the Chamber. And hopefully it'll be voted through so we can get these analyses. The fact is that Norway, as the rapporteur points out, has a very good approach. They are in favour of phasing out the sale of new fossil cars; the Netherlands is doing, Sweden is doing, so there are many countries that are involved in this. Does the rapporteur not think that it would be sensible for us to have these analyses carried out so that we can enter the European and Nordic debates on a knowledge base, and thus have these analyses that make us know how to take these discussions with our Nordic friends and our European colleagues?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171635	I am very sorry if I have been expressed as if this was the wrong way to deal with this. But I was actually trying to congratulate you on putting it on the agenda, and I tried to highlight the importance of a debate. What I wanted to see was that there could be other ways of examining this than by tabling a motion for a resolution. And that is what I have invited us to do in the Committee on Transport, so that we can make a report, and then we can try to ask some of these questions so that we can clarify this very important area. Because we Social Democrats fully agree with the alternative of having a greener agenda in transport, and we can do that by getting fewer fossil cars and more electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171713	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171714	So just to understand that, I have to ask: social democracy will be involved in some way in the European and Nordic debates about phasing out the sale of new fossil cars within a number of years, which will also allow us to start making private business plan the infrastructure that will then be needed to get the electric cars going far?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171738	We Social Democrats are very happy to contribute by setting a green agenda for our transport policy, focusing on how to make it far more attractive to buy electric cars and other environmentally friendly alternatives to electric cars, and what we are doing to reduce the number of cars that drive fossils, perhaps completely phasing them out, apart from classic cars, veteran cars, etc. We are happy to look at this and I think we should have a constructive discussion on it in the Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171806	Mrs. Sanne Bjørn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171808	Thank you. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur said in his speech that it was the case that it was forbidden to roll around in his car, which was scorching with fossil fuels. This has never been the intention behind this motion for a resolution. It is precisely to try to advance in good time, so that the Danes can make a decision when going down to buy a new car, in good time, because it is again this with the loan options. We know that it matters if people have a car for a long time, how long you can have it to write it off. So does the rapporteur not agree that it is extremely important for us to think about this in the long term, and does the rapporteur not also agree that it is not about showing someone who drives fossils, because that is what most of us are doing, but about promoting a green form of energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404171907	As I have also tried to mention in my other replies, we Socialists are very, very concerned about getting a green agenda for our transport policy. The transport sector, after all, is one of the sectors which is the most disgusting of all CO2 emissions, which is why there must be a drastic change in this area. We need a green policy. That is also why I used my speaking time to commend the authors of the motion for a resolution in order to set the agenda. When I go down in the specific text proposal, I think it was appropriate to mention some of the things that could have been formulated differently, and there I am very pleased that Mr Alternate's report has been adopted. Christian Poll admits that yes, it should probably have been written in a slightly different way, so that these people who care about classic cars, veteran cars, should not have to sit and shake their pants, because the way it is formulated now could actually put them in a pinch. So we are using the debate here to clarify these things and that is positive, but let us agree on the very line of this, the agenda that we should have a greener transport policy, of course we should; there we Social Democrats are on the bus all the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172007	Mrs. Sanne Bjørn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172009	If some amendments are then tabled, for example some of those proposed by the Social Democrats, and we agree that it is not, of course, a question of exhibiting those who drive veteran cars, peace be with it, it is still not the majority that depends on the definition of veteran cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172034	I don't think it's very dramatic. The rapporteur is absolutely right about that. There are excellent tactics in this proposal. There are some things that we would have done differently. We cannot understand why it cannot be asked as ordinary questions, committee questions or anything else, do a hearing, do something else, rather than make a motion for a resolution which is a little imprecise, as some of the authors have themselves admitted, and then put a lot of emphasis on the fact that we are pushing things where we are thinking whether this is necessarily the way forward and whether we should not make it more thought-through and at the pace that pants can hold. But we are in complete agreement on the objective, and let's sit down and find a solution to this, because we need more knowledge in this area. We need to set the agenda. We need to start working in the right direction, so that we have fewer fossil cars and much more people who drive more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172127	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions and we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172136	Thank you. To me, this is a parade proposal. I think it would be fine, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn says that you held a hearing and asked some questions if you want to be smarter in this area. In connection with the previous proposal from the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left asked a number of questions about funding, and I have not been able to find it anywhere here either. And I'm not into mind at least not over at the Ministry of Transport to help find 3, 4 or 5 million. kr. to those who can sit and analyze themselves to something we well know in advance. How long does it take to build a road? In Denmark, it is easy to take 6-8 years, from the time we have decided, to find funding, and to the end of the road. So we will be there in 2025, and then we will not be able to buy new cars anymore. I am so pleased with the promise that, after all, people are positive about driving vintage cars, because I predict that this is where we will all end up in 2035 or 2040. Because then we've got this old car park. What have you imagined? If you ban the sale of new cars in 2025, what about those who need their car to get to and from work, take care of their training etc. etc., and who cannot afford to go out and give 1 million. kr. For an electric car? Or $500,000 if we remove the tax? Or 500,000 kroner. for a hydrogen car, to which so far are eight hydrogen stations in Denmark? Well, it's all on the moon. Then it says: What are the consequences for the climate, the environment and the economy? Well, that's very easy to predict. This is gonna put the whole community at a complete standstill. We don't really need to do analyses for millions of dollars. Research is being carried out, billions of dollars of worldwide are being spent researching alternative fuels, for example. hydrogen, electricity and biofuels. That's really good. In the Danish People's Party, we would also like to help promote research into this. I just want to remind you that, for example, we do. had an opportunity to make biofuels out on Djursland, out in Grenaa. There you would have liked to have opened a biofuels plant, to which you would then have to use some wheat, which could not be used for animal feed or anything else because of our rigid environmental rules. The radical minister at that time would not be a part of that because it was the first generation of biofuels; after all, some refined feed was obtained from this wheat, which can neither be used for baking nor anything, unless of course you sail soy protein home from Argentina for the pleasure and benefit of CO2 So try now, dear friends, to get your legs down on the ground. We are very positive about driving in electric cars and on hydrogen and biofuels. But a society that bans the sale of new cars as early as 2025 is not a society that I want to be a part of. So it will be a big no from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172435	There are no questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172451	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to thank the proposers for focusing on the transition to more green transport, because we in the Left are also concerned about this. We are concerned that we retain an appropriate momentum in terms of crowding out petrol and diesel fuels as the main drivers of transport. Instead, cars, trucks and buses will in future have to drive on green propellants such as biogas, hydrogen, electricity from wind turbines, etc. I think there is a very broad political consensus on that. The agreement ends where the proposers demand that Denmark go far ahead of the EU in terms of sub-targets for switching to green transport. We absolutely have to lift the green tab, we have to meet the EU 2030 targets for CO2 displacement. That's where the waters separate in this debate, because that's exactly what will happen if Denmark goes alone. I welcome the fact that the Danish Parliament has previously decided to change car taxes in a significant green direction, so that we now see a massive increase in the sales of small energy-efficient cars running a long way on the liter. This has already resulted in a significantly greener transport. We see a massive increase in the sale of the small cars, where they were previously bought some larger cars. This is good for mobility. Some who couldn't afford a car before have now been able to afford such a small green car, which gives them some opportunities to get around that they didn't have before. We're heading in a green direction. In addition, technical developments will come to us in the coming years, so that electric cars, biogas cars, hydrogen cars and hybrid vehicles will not only be more efficient, they will also be significantly cheaper in the years to come, because new and more modern forms of production will be found, plus more and more volume in production. So the cars will be cheaper in the years to come. By the way, the Left is technology neutral. It's like when you talk about this, you only talk about electric cars. Why do you only talk about electric cars? There is, after all, a wide range of technologies that are interesting. For example, I think biogas is really interesting to displace fossil fuels, especially in heavy vehicles, trucks and buses. I was just informed today that I was a little surprised that in Sweden it is over 90 per cent. of the buses in the public traffic now run on biogas. I was a little surprised that you're so high up. This is interesting because there we have something where we can combine it with our animal production in Denmark. The cows tend to make biogas, and out of the manure that comes out of the back of cows and pigs, we can make green transport. So there are some exciting perspectives in biogas. But we haven't engaged to a certain technology, unlike some others, we have to understand. Best technology must win. I also very much welcome the fact that, at the end of the year, the government is presenting an overall strategy for a cost-effective restructuring of our entire energy sector and how we will achieve the EU's targets by 2030. It is in the government base, and I have just had it confirmed today by the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. There will be such a strategy in the autumn, and this is an overall strategy in which transport is also included. So I would just like to say to the impatient and the eager: let us now take things in the right order. Let us first have a comprehensive national strategy on what objectives there are, in 2030, in terms of greenhouse gas displacement, in terms of percentage of renewable energy. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the government's objective is 50 per cent. in 2030. The EU's target is 27 per cent, so there we are far ahead, for 27 per cent. We have already met. However, with regard to CO2, we must ensure that our objectives go green all the time, that we maintain momentum, but we must never get so far ahead of the others that we let those who are behind us out of sight, because then it will cost the Danish drivers enormously. It costs a lot for Danish companies if we force green development. And this is where the water divides. That's why we have to bet on realism, an appropriate pace at this whole transition. There we have to wait for the strategy put forward by the government, and that is why the Left will not be helping to spend money on an analysis at this stage, which is what this specific proposal is all about. So let's keep the green tab high, but not taller, than the legs can reach the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172949	There are four people who are going to ask questions for the time being. The first is Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404172955	Thank you very much. Now it can be said that the fact that we in Denmark have just promoted the green transition, also historically, has created thousands of green jobs, has created a leading position, including at global level, in relation to green energy. So when it comes to thinking that because we are ambitious because we are visionary, the earth disappears under our feet, and it will cost Danish society dearly, I would say that that is certainly not what the experience tells us. After all, this proposal is about walking away from fossil fuels and moving to green energy... not that we're in love with electric cars, but it's about looking at a wide range of green energy in the transport sector. I can't understand where the Left has all these horror scenarios from in the future if we promote the conversion I have also heard Mr. Bonesen mention it, i.e. families with children, rural areas, all those who will be thrown over the edge of the abyss if we change fuel in our transport sector. Where do these future scenarios really come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173100	Well, I don't have any scare pictures. I'm just saying that we need to take things at the appropriate pace. If we speed up if we go faster than the rest of the world, it is clear that it costs money and I have not heard the proposers say where that money should come from. Nor have I heard any suggestion that we should reduce our welfare if some of the many billions actually contributed by the car park no longer come as income to the treasury. So I would say that we are not painting any scare pictures; we are just saying calmly: let us now take it in the right order and at an appropriate pace. We are going in a green direction, we are agreed on that, but now that the government comes up with a large overall strategy this autumn, why on earth should we start an analysis which will certainly cost several million kroner? I simply cannot understand the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173144	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173146	There are hardly any examples from the real world that, because we have been ambitious and visionary in the green area, it has cost society billions. And that is what this proposal is all about, that is to say, to remain visionary, to remain ambitious. And why are we so strongly opposed to this idea of becoming wiser and more aware of how we can promote the green transition in the transport sector, which will not only benefit the climate, but will also benefit from air pollution, which will benefit from noise pollution? All the side effects of the fossil-powered cars we can actually solve with this. Why doesn't the Left want more knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173226	Well, we really need to get smarter all the time. That is why we have started a series of tests and the parties have agreed on this. We have launched a series of, even successful, attempts, and all that is now to be brought together in a national strategy for this, instead of launching a one-sided analysis of what will happen if we stop selling cars • new cars, can I understand that petrol and diesel are running in 2025? It's a waste of time and money. Let us now wait for the government's national strategy. And then I look forward very much to discussing concrete initiatives in the area of greener transport in a year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173259	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173302	Now the rapporteur says that we must not raise the green tab so high that the legs cannot reach, but is the rapporteur not aware that in a number of other countries, our good Nordic comrades, Sweden, Norway, good EU countries such as Holland and Germany, are talking about starting this phase-out? After all, the European Union has asked us to reduce CO2 in the non-quota economies, that is. agriculture and transport, and then there has to be some sort of action. It has then been decided to start charging the electric cars. What we are proposing here is to say: what can we do to get smarter so that we can achieve these goals? What this is all about is how we can learn more about this phase-out that isn't so high that our legs can't reach. No, because Sweden talks about it, Norway talks about it, Holland talks about it, Germany talks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173404	This is exactly what the government is working on, namely to draw up a strategy on how to achieve the European Union's objectives in this area. We intend to comply with them to the letter. It is even in the government's constitution. It is as if the authors of the motion are so eager, because this analysis must be set in motion. Why can we not wait until we get it into a sensible framework, because then I think the whole of the Danish Parliament is working to find some concrete means to invest wisely and forward-lookingly in this? As one said, the investments made must be written off, and therefore it is important that there are sensible political objectives and some sub-objectives so that there is an economy in it. That's exactly why the pace of this is important, and it's also important in the right order. So I simply see no need for this analysis, but I welcome the fact that we have the debate, that is always fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173454	I have to say that I simply do not understand this because we have to take it in the right order. The discussion is right now in Europe, we can choose to take part in this discussion with the Nordic countries, with the other European countries, all of which can see that there is a need for phasing out fossil cars if we are to meet the objectives we achieved in the European Union if we are to live up to the Paris Agreement. I cannot understand why it should be so crazy a proposal that we cannot begin to analyse what needs to be done. Can the rapporteur not try to elaborate on this, because we have to achieve some objectives and other countries are talking about exactly the same thing, but how do we get there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173529	Now I could not dream of calling the proposal crazy, because I always respect the views of my opponent, but I am simply saying that I disagree that we should spend money on this, because I want to wait for the strategy that the government is now putting forward, and I think that everyone is waiting with great excitement for that, because then we can have a debate within the framework of what measures we need to take within the range of different technological possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173552	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173554	After all, the transport sector is a sector which has come to a halt. It can be said that some of this is due to the phasing-in of charges on electric cars. That, then, is what we are trying very specifically to address here. The rapporteur asks why we are so in love with it. This proposal is about passenger cars, and the researchers tell us that it is the passenger cars that need to be phased in. Biogas belongs more over in heavy transport. This is how different solutions are best suited to different parts of the system. With this in mind, the rapporteur would not agree with me that it would be wise to go into this process, which the government itself has helped to stop, by asking: what could we do? What we are just asking for is an analysis of how to move forward and phase out fossil energy at the passenger car level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173654-2	We always have to get to know each other. We always need to get smarter. We need to keep an eye on what's happening around us. We fully agree with that. However, I think that the right order is first to draw up a national strategy on the objectives to be achieved. Then we will agree on this in the Folketing, and then we will have to look at the means to be used to achieve the objectives. There we just say on the left side: we must move at a moderate pace so that we keep moving in a green direction, but it must not be in a way that will cost Danish society a great deal, so that the individual citizen will see that it will be more expensive to transport and that the individual company will have higher costs and thereby weaken its competitive power. It will cost jobs. That is the balance we must strike. I recognise, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, that we have then created many green jobs in green technology. That is not what we disagree on at all. We are just saying that precisely transport is a sensitive area and, if we are not careful, are very careful, it can really be costly. That is why it is so important that we take everything at the right pace. I don't really think we're so far apart in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173802	We will be able to clarify that, because there is one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173806	Of course, most wise investments will lead to more jobs being created. Then the interesting thing is, from my point of view, whether new jobs are being created in something that is on the way out or in something that is coming in. One could, for example: the North Sea: what does it mean to invest further in pulling oil out of the North Sea? It's a technology that's going beyond the next 20 to 30 years. It might be smarter to put your investments where you know we're going. This is where we think: We have good experiences in Denmark with the green economy; when it is helped along the way, we create a sector that can both export and create solutions for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173847	Well, that's good thinking, as long as we take it at the right pace. Now it is not the case that Denmark currently has a fantastic large car industry, but it may well be that we can become subcontractors to a future more green car industry. I'm one of them. is pleased that a large number of electric cars are being produced at JP Group in Viborg. So let's hope we get a piece of the cake. And we're going in a green direction, but at the right pace.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173910	With that, we thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance, now on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404173932	Thank you. In order to reduce the number of fossil passenger cars, it is of course essential that technology develops. The technology available today for electric cars simply does not meet the requirements of the ordinary driver for reach and economy. I think it's a young chick twice as much as it costs to produce an electric car. Of course, there is a rapid development in both electric cars and fuel cell vehicles, and we must, of course, support this development. In our view, this development is driven, in particular, by free and equal competition. Free competition is guaranteed, among other things. by phasing in electric and fuel cell vehicles into the registration fee. Of course, we would like to see the registration tax removed completely, both for petrol and diesel cars and for electric and fuel cell vehicles. Thus it would be possible for ordinary families either to replace their old car with a new and much more green car or to move to an electric car. This is good both for the environment and for the individual family. However, we have not yet got that far, so when it comes to this, the state should certainly not favour one particular technology rather than another, as it puts a brake on competition and hinders development. A good example of this is what we saw in Germany, where there were such attractive schemes for solar cells that the producers were more busy pulling the solar cells off the shelves and getting them sold than having the industry developed with the result that all the jobs went to China. Now the solar cells are produced in China, and then you have some really expensive solar cells on the roofs of Germany. At any rate, this is a good example of what happens when such a very specific subsidy is given to a particular technology. No, car manufacturers are being pressured by consumers' desire for greener technology to reduce their emissions, while electric car manufacturers are being pressured to increase the reach of their cars and lower prices. By giving the market to electric car manufacturers, development is slowed down because manufacturers do not have an incentive to improve their product, just like solar cells. As a government, we should also pursue a technology-neutral policy in this area rather than forcing a particular technology out of the market. We simply have no idea what technology will look like in ten years' time. The technology now on the market is still very new and not thoroughly tested, which is why it is very expensive, as we have said. Targeting a whole phase-out of petrol and diesel cars risks taking consumers hostage by forcing them into cars which may not meet their needs at all and are still significantly more expensive than petrol and diesel cars. However, there is also a fundamental discussion about how much the state should interfere with the ordinary Dane's everyday life. It should simply not be well paid members of the Danish culturalite in Copenhagen who are to dictate which car a carpenter's apprentice in Hvide Sande is to drive. At least that's how you could put it. It may well be that the proposers from Enhedslisten, Radicals, SF and the Alternative can afford to drive in a Tesla, but I must say that it is not the reality too far, by far most Danes. When the technology is ready, the Danes will probably take the electric car to them. I am convinced that even if it is not something we dictate in here from Christiansborg. Meanwhile, we must support technological development by ensuring a level playing field. Therefore, it does not make sense for the government to carry out another large-scale analysis. By the way, the Climate Council, which the proposers themselves helped to promote a few years ago, has done a dyke work on how the conditions are in relation to the introduction of electric cars. I think it is said that there should be 1 million electric cars by 2030 and that it will cost about 3.5 billion. kr. It's also calculated on CO2 so I don't really think it's analysis that's missing. The Danish Energy Agency works in full print with analyses and has done so since 2012 when the energy settlement was adopted. In CONCITO we are working on analyses, and now we obviously need a new analysis. It goes without saying that we cannot support the proposal. We do not think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174405	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174412	Thank you very much. As I hear the rapporteur, I think the rapporteur agrees with me that not all technology is equally good. When we face climate change, it is important for there to be a green transition away from fossil fuels to green energy, and I cannot understand why the rapporteur believes that because we want to promote this green transition, it is the same as dictating. We can politically help to promote a development in a different direction that competition cannot. And does the rapporteur not agree with me that the climate is more important than free competition? The climate is more important. Then the rapporteur makes it sound like there is only one electric car manufacturer, so if we promote electric cars, all competition will be gone. There are many electric car manufacturers, so of course there will still be a motivation for technology development. Can the rapporteur not also confirm this? These were three or four questions, and I hope the rapporteur could keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174514	Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174517	Yeah, I remember one of them. Isn't the climate more important than competition? I think you have to go to school for many years if you have to answer that. It's funny, we've got a lot of fun going on here. Our approach is that competition helps to develop the technologies that we all want, while I understand from the rapporteur that we want to opt for a specific technology selectively and say that this is what we spend all the billions on. Then we'll have a distortion of the economy. One environmental economic report after another shows that this is a really bad way of conducting energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174603	This isn't about one technology. This is about moving away from fossil fuels to other green fuels in the transport sector, and there is not just one technology, just as there is not just one producer on the contrary. I cannot understand why the Liberal Alliance seems to have no perspective on the fact that we politicians can play a role, that we can help promote a particular development, so that we solve a huge social problem such as climate change. I would like to ask one more question: is the climate not more important than the praise of free competition by the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174643	As I hear it, it must be the means on which we disagree. I also tried to give an example of what is happening in the solar sector, for example. in Germany. When you subsidise a particular technology for achieving something quite specific, it happens that producers say that we are selling anyway, we do not need to develop, and that is also why socialist systems usually collapse because of poor efficiency; we do not need to develop; we do earn money, it is good enough state money, so we just continue to chew butterbread. That is exactly the point: if you go down and subsidise a single type of technology, we do not get development. After all, we get development when we have competition, so I think it must be the means we disagree on. We all want a green society, and I am convinced of that, regardless of what we decide in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174739	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404174746	When we talk about the climate, I usually say: Earth calls, and we must hear it. Back in 2015, Earth called so loud that world leaders responded in Paris, and they replied that something had to be done about this and made some agreements that do something about the climate disaster we are facing. What we just know is that if we're going to get 75% at all. The chance to achieve the 2-degree targets of the Paris Agreement will have to be halved every decade from now on at all levels; for individuals, cities, countries and globally. At the same time, the share of renewable energy needs to be doubled every five to seven years, while we support technologies that can pull CO2 out of the atmosphere and quickly reduce emissions from agriculture and deforestation etc. That is what we must live up to. These are the things we must do as a society, both here in our country, but also in the communities of which we are part, in the North, in Europe, and of course globally. A key part of this is, of course, the transport sector. We know that in relation to these unquotad industries, such as: The transport sector must be cut by 39%. It has been agreed in the EU, and there will then be some precise targets for Denmark, but it will be on that scale. But then there must be action. Then something serious really needs to be done, and many other places are doing so. Sweden is talking about starting to phase out fossil cars by 2030. You talk about it in Norway and the Netherlands, and in India you meet to see how you can actually have converted the private car park by 2030. And in Norway, you don't just do that, because there you trade even more. You actually go in and say: we have to do something today, although we are also beginning to talk about this planned phasing-out. In Denmark we do just the opposite. We have put taxes on electric cars, of which we actually want more, and other cars that drive fossil fuels, at the same time we have made cheaper. And in my optics, it's just a little weird when we were together in Paris during COP21 to make that deal. Then there is what is absolutely crucial to discuss here: last summer, on behalf of the Alternative, I was already out saying that we actually think we should decide to make this phasing out of the sale of new fossil cars by 2025, and we think it should happen because there is a need to do this checked and planned because we know that it is cheaper. It must also be controlled because we therefore have private companies that have to provide the infrastructure needed for electric cars to operate, and they must also know whether it is worthwhile in relation to their investments. Right now, these private car manufacturers say, and so on. Just: It doesn't pay to touch Denmark at all, because taxes have been added, so let's go to Norway and other countries instead and work on these things where it makes sense, and where you have actually created an incentive structure that makes it turn into electric cars. Now we have a proposal to do an analysis of what this means, so that we can take an active part in the international debate on this and come up with good solutions together. And I do not sense that there is support for really finding out, and I really think that is a pity. So I hope that through the work of the committee some moves can be made so that we can get through this because it is so crucial that we act and not only talk about what analysis is coming tomorrow or autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175148	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175157	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are always concerned about the green transition. We are concerned that the changes must take place in time so that consumers can adjust, and there is the huge challenge, especially in the car market. It is not only about new cars, but also about the used car market, where it is the case that when you make changes in this area, it has great impact and very big consequences for consumers. That is why we are also concerned that, in addition to the green angle, which has been widely discussed today, it is doing so in time for consumers to be able to decide on the purchase of cars. That is why I think it is really a pity that this proposal does not have a majority in favour of it. Because it would actually provide a good basis for decision-making in order to find out what the price is, what benefits we can get, what it means for consumers and, above all, the environment. This is one of the things that we attach importance to could be nice to have an analysis done. I am also aware that the Minister and several of the government rapporteurs are concerned about this issue and are interested in drawing up a strategy so that we continue to promote the green transition. And I think it is really a pity that you do not want to think long-term in this area, because what comes through the back door has major consequences for consumers. It also has the clear consequence that at the moment we are abandoning the elbies. The number of electric cars sold is just rattled down because you have no faith that the government will do anything about it. I find this regrettable, especially because we are talking about a new technology that is extremely good, and the driveability of an electric car is absolutely fantastic. The technology is there, it is just that the infrastructure needs to be developed and that this must be lit up so that we can phase out in good time. So I very much hope that it will be looked at constructively in committee in the further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175404	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175419	Our climate and energy rapporteur had something else to do, so you have to thank me, but this is also an area for which I am so concerned and have also fought very hard. After all, this area has to do with both the transport minister's resort, but also with the Resort of the Minister for Tax and Climate and Energy. It is not just about cars, it is about the whole green transition. For some of the rapporteurs who have been critical about this, I do not think it is a secret that we look at differently what is needed to promote the green transition in passenger transport. But I am still surprised that you say no to an analysis and that you are not willing to learn more about what it is that is needed to replace the car park. After all, although it may be some people's opinion, I have not heard anyone say from up here: no, we should not phase out fossil cars. It may be that you mean it, but after all you're smart enough not to speak from up here. I think that what is good enough for all of our transport ministers is also good enough for consumers, for the citizens out there who want electric cars that are affordable. That is why it is also a pity that registration fees have been imposed which have so much brought sales to a standstill. 35 electric cars were sold in a quarter. Of course, the gas car industry is jubilant because they can see that almost 60,000 petrol cars have been sold in this particular quarter. 60,000 petrol cars across 35 electric cars. That is why I am glad that the Minister for Transport said: yes, it matters what you do. It is also a general approach that people react to a certain extent to financial incentives... it depends on where and how... but in this area we can see so much that sales have stalled. We also had, when we negotiated the present Minister of Transport 11⁄2 years ago, there were also, I think, a number of suggestions on how we could finance this by removing a number of deductions which do not make any sense at all, but which made sense at some point, because we wanted more safety equipment and other equipment in the cars and which today is just a cost to the state. We had a large number of proposals which financed this, but there was no political support for it. But then there has been political support and a majority that wanted to spend 0.25 billion. kr. kr. a year to reduce the registration fee. We can, among other things. See has set the sale of petrol cars on fire. I do not remember now what rapporteur it was, but there was one from one of the bourgeois parties who said: what would people drive around in a non-car? But people just have to drive around in cars; they have to drive around in electric cars. I think it was DF's rapporteur who said so. They must drive around in electric cars; they must drive around in smarter cars; they may have to drive around in self-propelled cars. I know the Minister is very concerned about this, and I am therefore also surprised that it is not even possible to say yes to an analysis. Because the Minister is very involved in the fact that we need to look at the opportunities that technology also offers us, and he would therefore like to do both analysis on self-propelled cars and also experiment. I think that is quite right, because there can be a lot of benefits out of it. But we also know that we need to replace the car park, and we need to move fast. To those who are very concerned about agriculture and the climate requirements that are being imposed on agriculture, I can just say that if we do not meet our climate requirements in the area of passenger cars, those requirements will be laid down elsewhere in the non-quota sector. I think we should discuss this with the farmers, because I do not think they think they should have even more demands than those already planned. But those savings have to be found elsewhere. That is why there is only a • and that is also what the wise men have said • one way to go, and it is in good time to ensure that we get our car park changed. It's going way too slow. I believe that if you produce the current electric car sales, it will take 300 years to get to the level we know it will be 300 years. But it is no wonder that in a quarter 35 electric cars and 60 000 petrol cars are being sold. We think we've made this suggestion that the only right thing for consumers is actually to say to them: this is going to happen, and we want you to prepare for that; it's not about you not driving around in your petrol cars, but we'd like to prepare for that one day, and it's soon when you're going to buy something else. That's all there is in this. We could calculate that there was no majority to say that the sale of petrol cars will end in 2025. This proposal is about an analysis to show where we're going. So I think it is a pity that there is no support for an analysis that is about us all knowing where we're going. We just need to see how too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175952	Thank you. And that's what Mr. Kim Christiansen would like to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404175957	Yeah, I'd love to. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is now asking why we do not want to be involved in an analysis. I agree slightly with the Minister: why do we have to make an analysis of something that is completely unrealistic? So, in 2025, will the rapporteur force people to buy an electric car or a hydrogen car if they are going to have a new car? That is what the proposal says. So if you want to replace your maybe eight-year-old diesel car, it can be at that time... you have to be forced to pay half a million dollars or whatever it costs. I do not think that eight years is a very long time in this world, so I do not think that the prices of electric cars have come down significantly. And no, I do not want to make an artificial tax change just to promote the sale of electric cars; it must be the market that decides it. Will Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen really force the Danes to change to an electric car after 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180054	We need to set a date for stopping the sale of fossil cars. If the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thinks that year should be 2030, I would think it was a little too late, but then there was something to discuss, but the Danish People's Party will not put on a date. Perhaps it is because we do not believe that there is a year when fossil cars are to be ended, and then we end up with the fundamental difference between our analyses: whether this is a serious, urgent problem or not. After all, we are totally lagging behind a number of our neighbouring countries, which have both made policies to promote electric car sales, but which have also begun to put years on a stop. I just think that this is about a different view of whether this is necessary or not, and what it has to do with disastrous consequences, including for our economy, if we do not change our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180152	No, we don't want to put years on, because this is something the market has to decide. When technology is there, it all gives itself. This has proved to be the case throughout industrial development and throughout the lifetime of the car. Then I do not like the fact that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is pulling this agricultural card, that is to say that we must now have all the farmers on our backs because we do not want to drive electric cars. I mean, if you take some big Asian cities, for example. Beijing or Hanoi, where I myself have been, I think you will see that more CO2 is emitted. So don't use that because we have to put the burden on agriculture because I don't want to drive an electric car. Try to look beyond Denmark's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180237	Now, just two days ago Beijing has said that they will stop firing coal of any kind, and they are becoming the world's biggest consumers of wind turbines. There is a great backlog, yes, but the rest of the world can see that this is not a luxury, that it is not a halal hippie; it is something that needs to be done, and it is going to hit us as an economic blow to the head if we do not reposition ourselves in time; it is not only environmentally, climatewise. We're a small country, but we could be all the way ahead. Elon Musk came to visit a few years ago and said: It is important that Denmark is involved, even though you are a small country, for you can pull the lead and show the rest of the world what it takes. I think it is so unfortunate that we could not live up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180324	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180339	Thank you and thank you for a long debate with many good arguments. We are voting against the proposal here, but it is not now because we believe that evil intentions lie behind it. After all, we agree on what route we are going to take, and I look forward very much to the day when we can only manage with more environmentally friendly electric cars. It's gonna be a good day for the environment. Unfortunately, we believe that that day is a little far in the future, and the main argument for rejecting the resolution is the same as the other bourgeois rapporteurs have also remarked: if an analysis is to be carried out, there must be some reason for it, and the reason here must be that one believes in the scenario that we can phase out fossil-powered cars as early as 2025 or 2030. We do not see that going to happen, and we are generally more in favour of creating a proper incentive structure than of using bans. We are, of course, because if incentives are put in place to behave environmentally friendlyly, people will do so with the instruments that are most effective, while, if banned, they will use instruments that politicians have decided, and the two things are not necessarily the same. So, unfortunately, we have to reject the resolution, but we thank you for the good intentions, and we are also looking forward to working in the future to make more progress towards more electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180508	Thank you, and there are a few brief comments. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180513	Thank you. It may well be that we disagree as to what year to set and where it is realistic to say that from here, when we sell new cars, we should no longer sell fossil propellants. But the intention of the proposal is first and foremost to find the incentives that the rapporteur has also mentioned: how can we help this development? How can we push it in the right direction? Because that is where we need to go to take care of the climate. So if we were to find another date or leave it more open with regard to the year, would that be something we could talk to the Conservative People's Party about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180552	If that is the intention, then perhaps I do not think that the proposal here is quite appropriate. That is certainly not the impression that you are left with when you read the proposal that we are supposed to find more effective incentives. When I read the proposal, I understand it in that way that it is believed that from 2025 or 2030 there should be no fossil driven cars at all in Denmark. We do not think this is realistic, and that is why we must then reject it, at least in the wording of the proposal. However, I would always like to talk to the Enhedslisten about how we provide good incentives for environmental behaviour, also with regard to the choice of vehicles, and it is clear, of course, that I hope that Enhedslisten also knows that, in relation to the tax system, we have a position that we would very much like to favour appropriate environmental solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180649	I can clearly deny that this is a thought that by 2025 or 2030 we will no longer have fossil-powered cars on our roads. Because it is clear that there will be a huge backlog from the day when new fossil-powered cars are no longer sold until they are completely phased out, and there may be a second-hand car market for many years to come. So this revolves around a date when we're looking at new cars and how we can promote this green transition. So I actually sense that on a very long stretch we agree that we should go that way and we can easily learn more about how we promote it and then let us discuss the year. Let it be more open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180726	It is, of course, true that I formulated myself incorrectly before. For it is clear in the proposal that it is about when no more fossil-powered cars should be sold, and not about when there should be no one left. But I mean the same thing as I said before, that is to say that we do not think it realistic that fossil-powered passenger cars will no longer be sold in Denmark from 2025 or 2030. But yes, we look forward to a continued good debate with Enhedslisten on how to achieve our common goals in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180756	The next question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180759	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of incentives in his speech. Does the rapporteur agree that it has given such an incentive not to buy an electric car, that taxes have been imposed as from 1 January 2016, and then either do not or do not buy a petrol or diesel vehicle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180826	I would like to put it in this way that the very positive incentives to buy an electric car have been reduced, as there were before the tax change. That is true, and we can see that very clearly in the sale of electric cars, which unfortunately has fallen quite a bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180843	Now it may also be that our two parties look at it differently, but does the rapporteur not agree that it is then a question of political will and priorities, whether you choose to spend the money on lowering registration fees in general, or whether you do not put taxes on electric cars instead, or at least did a training that looks different from that which is now there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180908	Yes, but there are plenty of other places you could have chosen to find money for a tax exemption for electric cars. It could also have been on the post-retirement, trade union allowance or anything else. Well, it's just a political choice whether to have it or not. So I do not know whether you can put it entirely in the way that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen did here. I agree, however, that it is a political priority whether or not there should be that tax exemption and we are, far along the way, very, very much in favour of having a tax structure that promotes electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180941	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404180944	Thank you. It is always interesting to try to find out how to create the majority needed when a proposal is put forward. What this is all about, apart from the very specific text, is knowledge, so that we will increase the level of knowledge needed to make this transition, which I am also hearing from the rapporteur, and I am also aware of the Conservative People's Party's position on the fact that we agree with it. We know, of course, that there is a lack of knowledge, because everything the government has done in whatever constellation it has had since the elections and its majority has done has meant that we have gone the wrong way in relation to the conversion of the transport sector. Does the rapporteur not recognise that we need to have some knowledge of how we are really going to move forward? And would the rapporteur be interested to see that we are working on it in committee in order to have some amendments tabled and then to say that it is 2027 and 2032 we are going to try to see a basis for calculation? How should this be formulated in order to meet each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181046	We can talk about that. But it is clear that we want to contribute to more knowledge about how to promote the sale of electric cars in Denmark. I think we have quite a lot of knowledge and I do not think that we are going to come up with any patent solutions, so it is probably quite a question of charging structures, and then it is a question of waiting for technological developments to hopefully mean that the electric cars are getting better and better and can drive longer and longer so that more people will benefit from them and the cost of producing them will fall in the future. So I do not know if there is a great deal of knowledge missing on that point, but otherwise we are not opposed to any more catching up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181135	Yes, okay, I just thought that since the choice had been made to go the wrong way by the majority that the rapporteur himself is part of, that it was knowledge that needed to be done. As far as taxes are concerned, we know that the countries that are good compared to the tax part are in fact also looking at phasing out the sale of new cars. That is where the figures are taken from; it is 2025-2030 that these countries are talking about. However, we must try to see whether we can find out something in the committee work, because it is essential that we get this done, and it is crucial that we get to know how to move, because the handles that have been turned on so far have certainly not been effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181214	We are open to this, and we do not entirely disagree with the fact that not enough has been done yet. The crux of the matter is whether we come to a point in an incalculable future where we say that no petrol-powered cars can now be sold at all, no matter how much people will be willing to pay for them, and then we will be able to get a large amount of revenue that can be spent on other environmentally friendly measures. We don't believe that much. We are more in favour of incentives than of bans. So when it is written here about phasing out the sale, it means that no fossil-powered cars can be sold at all, and in my view this can only be achieved by a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181255	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181307	Thank you. We are facing a very large green transformation of our society, and it is a transformation that is full of opportunities; it is a transformation that is full of prospects; it is a transformation that allows for new jobs, less pollution and a greener society. And, of course, the green transformation of the transport sector is also essential. This is a change that will mean that we can get rid of cars which, after all, contribute to noise pollution, which bother many people who contribute to climate change, which contributes to air pollution, which makes a great many people sick, especially in the larger cities; and that is a transition to, for example, climate change. electric cars which do not have the polluting exhaust, which cause so much trouble and which are almost silent. It is a transition that is in full swing in many parts of the world. The car manufacturers are in the process and the politicians in several European countries are currently taking stock of the situation and looking at what needs to be done to get their country ready for the new technology and ready for the green transition. The Swedish climate minister has recommended an EU ban on petrol cars by 2030, and politicians in Germany, Norway, the Netherlands and Austria also talk about phasing out petrol cars. So there is no doubt: the cars driven by fossil fuels are past within a foreseeable time horizon. This motion for a resolution, which several parties in the Danish Parliament are behind, is about us also taking stock of developments here in the Danish Parliament, that we are also doing what we can to prepare our society for the technology of the future, that we should embrace the green transition and that we should seize the opportunities that exist. The proposal is not about us having to decide today whether it is 2025 or 2030, which is the right date where we no longer have to sell fossil cars. It is primarily about getting more knowledge, looking at the consequences and opportunities for Denmark, so we are dressed up to make the right decisions and take the right political initiatives. Indeed, there are many challenges to such a massive transformation of the transport sector. For example, a massive deployment of electric cars will affect the utilisation of wind-based power. In addition, the conversion of the infrastructure of energy supply to transport requires major changes and the tax system for passenger cars needs to be adapted. So it actually takes us to prepare. It actually requires us to consider what consequences this could have for all people in our society. I have noted both today, but also up to today, the scepticism that has been expressed, particularly from the blue side of the Parliamentary Assembly. I have noted that among other things. The Left believes that the rapporteur, who was not on the floor today, but the rapporteur for the Environment of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen is saying that both families of children and people living in rural areas will be unduly affected if they are to drive in cars not powered by fossil fuels in the future. I have to say that I do not quite understand the fears and concerns about technological development and about green conversion. And I do not understand at all the resistance of such statements to becoming wiser and more knowledgeable and being able to provide information on an enlightened basis, because precisely we must ensure that the green transition, including that of the transport sector, does not have the consequences, but that we ensure that everyone can be on the wagon when we solve the bound task of acting on climate change and ensuring the necessary transformation, including by our own society. Green conversion of passenger transport is a potential that we must politically work to exploit to the maximum. Having a closer analysis of both the green and the economic aspects will provide us with a very good basis for preparing us for the change that will certainly come. And if we even choose to be offensive and be a frontrunner together with other countries to push the transition forward, we will, as was the case with the success of the renewable energy and wind turbine industries, here too, be a long way ahead and also help to show the rest of the world how it is actually possible to convert not only its energy system, but also to get the energy system to play along with the transport system. And so there are really good prospects in that, because we know that all the countries of the world will sooner or later have to go through this green transition and that the world needs countries that can just show and develop the technology that can make this happen. So for me, this is about being a visionary, daring to seize the opportunities of the future. Here, too, I just have to say that there is a really big difference between the right and the left of the Parliamentary Chamber. I would like to sign for the positive reception that has been given by the Social Democratic Party, which is not co-sponsors, but which I feel quite convinced we can make a report with. And I also hope that, together with the Conservative People's Party, we can discuss how we can bring the green transition of passenger transport even further forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181927	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404181951	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182026	Last year, a bankruptcy of an insurance company in Liechtenstein sent 26,000 Danish homeowners' finances into great uncertainty. Suddenly, there was no longer any change of ownership insurance to cover the damage discovered and recognised, and any future damage would not be possible either. The company Gable Insurance AG, under the cover of the Danish name Houseowners' Insurance, had set up an agency in Denmark from which it had sold change of ownership insurance at a price far below the Danish competitors' price. With such a low price, it almost sounded too good to be true, and it was. There was misleading marketing that the company was better covered by guarantee schemes than Danish companies, but the reality was quite different. In fact, when the company went bankrupt, there was no guarantee scheme that could be used to secure the insured persons who were being held by farmers. In December last year, therefore, the parties in the financial conciliation circle entered into the agreement on which this bill was based. Already in December, however, we adopted an urgent proposal to safeguard policy holders. Nowadays, we have to deal with the fact that the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance can take up foreign companies, impose requirements on companies' marketing and finally make a small part of the fund's funds available for a legal investigation into the bankruptcy of Gable Insurance. Firstly, it is therefore proposed that a scheme should be set up so that foreign insurance companies which provide consumer insurance on the Danish market can join the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance. The price for companies is at least DKK 100,000, and this is a voluntary scheme for the companies. And the fact that it is a voluntary scheme for foreign companies means that we are also proposing that the law on insurance mediation be amended so that, in the case of marketing, companies must inform, in which insurance is taken out, the home Member State of the insurance company, whether the insurance company is covered by a guarantee scheme covering the customer's claims in the event of any insolvency of insurance companies and, last but not least, the name of this guarantee scheme. Secondly, according to the proposal, the information must be provided to the customer at the latest at the time of the conclusion of the insurance contract, and companies must disclose on their website the scope of the guarantee scheme. Here I would like to see us looking at how this can be reflected in a statutory annex to the individual insurance contract, so that we can better ensure that consumers do not have to sign anywhere and examine the terms of the guarantee in a completely different place, where the company can then simply change the terms of the guarantee without the individual consumer having it black in white and therefore not knowing the conditions for which guarantee is attached to the specific agreement that has been concluded. But I hope that we will be able to look at this during the committee procedure. A third element of this bill is that we authorise the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance to bear the cost of a law investigation on the possibility of making liability to the former management of Gable Insurance, the former management of Houseowners' Insurance, their partners in the distribution of insurance and other advisors. It is really, really important that those responsible and unscrupulous people who have given insurance to people in the Houseowners' Insurance should be accountable for the farming they have been responsible for. With the bill, we are then trying to prevent many families from facing the same situation in the future as 26,000 families did in December last year. However, I would like to stress that if you as a consumer are faced with having to choose between several different insurance policies, and if there is an offer, that sounds a little too good, it is, said in Jutland, probably because it is too good to be true. Therefore, it must be kept in mind whether an offer from a company also includes a guarantee scheme in the event of the company's bankruptcy. In other words, you have to read everything that is small. The Social Democrats can of course support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals, who unfortunately could not be here today, and say that the Radical Left also supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182437	There is one brief comment, so the rapporteur should stay here. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182443	Thank you. I agree with a great deal of what the rapporteur has said. After all, it is a scandal of dimensions, and one might wonder how many times we can go in with such rescue plans before the fund is emptied. So let's hope it doesn't happen again and that this is enough. The rapporteur outlined a number of things which are also reflected in the consultation answers, and I agree with them. One of the things that the rapporteur did not mention, but I would like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees with, is that the Ministry has made a comment that the bill should ensure that information is provided on whether the insurance company is covered by a guarantee scheme. That's good enough. But then it says that there should not be an obligation to explain the difference between the Danish damage guarantee scheme and the foreign one. Is this something that the Social Democratic Party wants to contribute to? Because there can be a world different from how you are covered if you are not part of it by the Danish scheme, but by a foreign scheme. Then it can still be said that you are covered, but not in what way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182549	What I think we should stick to and, as I also tried to draw attention to in my rapporteur's speech, I think it is important that the individual insured person who takes out insurance in a foreign company should have an annex stating in concrete terms what exactly this guarantee scheme covers. Then you can relate to it. If you want to compare with the Danish guarantee scheme, you have to look for information about it elsewhere. Because, as the Minister also writes in the hearing answer, it is also the case that there can be some national discrimination if we start to have it there by explaining differences in relation to a Danish scheme. That is why I think we should ensure that we have a black-and-white version of what exactly is covered by a foreign guarantee scheme. And then, as a consumer, you can relate to whether it is good enough, or whether you want to go to a Danish company where the Danish guarantee scheme applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182636	Then I just don't think I've read it well enough. The comment says: In connection with the conclusion of the contract, the insurance undertaking and the management company must indicate, according to the bill, whether the insurance company is covered by a guarantee scheme. So I simply read it in such a way that one should describe whether one is or not, but not what that arrangement is about. But I can ask the Minister that too. But it is certainly the view of the Social Democrats that it must be very clear what, for example, is going to happen. a foreign scheme covers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182717	I am sorry that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen got a little confused about what I said, because that may well happen, it was also a little unclear. But so, the proposal says that it must be made clear whether there is a guarantee system. What I then say in my rapporteur's speech, and which I will try to repeat now, is that I think, in fact, that the guarantee scheme should also be attached to the specific insurance agreement, whether it is the Danish or the foreign guarantee scheme. And I will work to ensure that we clarify during the committee procedure whether it is not possible to do so. Because then I am sure that, as a consumer, you are in black and white, what it is you are covered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182752	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404182803	Sir. Thomas Jensen, of the Social Democrats, has presented a great deal of this bill. It is so that if we turn the time back to 19 November last year, it was something of a bomb that jumped in relation to this insurance company going bankrupt, and then suddenly there were 26,000 Danish homeowners who were in a quite untenable situation. After all, they were not covered by the insurance because the company had gone bankrupt. That is why, of course, it was also a great pleasure that we found a solution relatively quickly. Already on 1 December, there was broad agreement in the Folketing to ensure the necessary approach to getting the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies to provide support in relation to the many homeowners who had been put in an unsustainable situation. They were simply faced with uncovered demands, and there were also many who were in the midst of damage repairs etc., where the craftsmen naturally left the matrix, in that they were not sure that they could get their payment for it. What we agreed on back then was what we're following up on with this bill. After all, these are the parts that were a little further away from the fast-track legislation that we set in motion to ensure these consumers, but that was precisely because we also wanted a thorough analysis and a legal statement, in terms of whether it is possible to raise criminal liability and so on. against the former management of both Gable Insurance and the Houseowners' Insurance and, not least, with the partners who have sold their insurance products. This is something that is being introduced with the legislative initiatives that come in L 172 and, of course, it is also initiatives in relation to some of the foreign EU-based companies that will also sell change of ownership insurance, etc. in Denmark, to allow them to join the Guarantee Fund for Non-life Insurance Companies for an appropriate payment. It is then, as has been said in the debate before, that you also have the opportunity to indicate whether you are covered or not. We are, of course, in favour of the bill. We are in the conciliation, just as all other parties are, and of course we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183026	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183031	Thank you. Could DF be interested in supporting an amendment to this otherwise fine bill, adding that there should be a list of companies affiliated to the Guarantee Fund? It would be a very easy and accessible way for consumers to see if one's company is covered by the Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183059	I would very much like it to be asked as a question, so that we also have the Minister's statement seen in relation to it. I would say that nothing acts as a deterrent. What I would just like to know is that the data on which customers are informed are always completely up to date, and I would be sorry if we had a situation where they have not been entered in the documents and, moreover, have provided people with an old list of insurance companies in other EU countries that are covered and have chosen to pay to be connected to this coverage. However, let us have questions put to us, and we would, of course, very much like to take a look at this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183138	I do not think we need to bother the Minister to ask it as a question, because he has very clearly said that he will not, because he does not want to. I just think it would be a very good idea to check this as easily as possible, also because at the time when an insured person buys an insurance, the company may well be covered by the Guarantee Fund. It is not necessarily 3 years later, but such a website could be updated on a regular basis. After all, I am saying this for the sake of policy holders, but also because we are not going to have to go back into a situation where we have to put so many millions of dollars and so many people's private finances at risk. So it's to create as much transparency as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183227	It sounds very plausible, but I'll then be allowed to say to the thing with website me here and website me there that all of a sudden we have many websites and consumers need to navigate them. Are we now going to make more websites to enlighten people? This is not exactly the agenda that I believe we in the Danish People's Party will support. What we want is for us to check whether such a list can be used or whether the other one is more appropriate. Time will tell. It may well be that the Minister has given an answer to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is not the one with which the SF agrees. Then we'll have to take it from there. I would just like it to be clarified before I start taking a position, and so this is a first reading and then we will take the amendments afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183307	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we can welcome Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183318	Thank you. As the two previous speakers have explained, this is a follow-up to the unfortunate situation that took place last year when Houseowners Insurance and Gable Insurance went bankrupt, which meant a number of homeowners were caught up. We resolved this with a rapid political agreement and also with legislation last year, which ensured that we managed the homeowners who were in the middle of a trial. But we also promised each other with the political agreement that there were some things we had to work on. That is precisely what is one of the main objectives of the bill, namely that foreign non-life insurance companies established in other countries of the European Union or having their registered office in countries with which the EU has concluded agreements in the financial field should also be able to opt for the Danish guarantee scheme, so that consumers who wish to take out non-life insurance in the company in question may, if the company chooses to do so, be able to benefit from the Danish guarantee scheme. That has not been possible so far. In fact, there are companies that have asked for it, so I think it makes great sense that we ensure that this option is available so that those companies that are not based in Denmark but want to sell insurance in Denmark can provide their customers with the same security as Danish-based companies can with the guarantee scheme we have here at home. This is one of the main aims of the draft law, and we are, of course, very much in favour of it. As others have also explained, we also raise the level of information provided by insurance agents, etc. must meet when placing on the market and selling non-life insurance contracts. I think it was the Social Democrat rapporteur who explained that there were examples of what customers had been presented with, perhaps not as true. And there we are making sure that if you market yourself with a guarantee system, then there must be a team of people in the message. Finally, the third element will make it possible for the guarantee fund to bear the cost of a lawyer's statement in order to see if it is possible to place responsibility for the situation that arose last year. So that is basically quite reasonable. We ensure that policy holders have the opportunity to buy insurance from a foreign company and then still be included if the foreign company wishes. It is an opt-in system and there will be greater transparency and better information, so that as an insured person you know whether the insurance you buy is covered by a guarantee fund or not. I think that makes a great deal of sense, and that translates into the agreement we made last year, so of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183614	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183619	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur's remarks that this also shows that when it is really burning, we, a lot of parties, can meet and make a rescue plan quickly. However, does the rapporteur not agree that one of the reasons why it was both urgent and so serious was that the number of insured persons, i.e. 26,000, had perhaps not been chosen exactly the same method if it had been 10 or 50 people? All of a sudden it also became a huge economic problem, not only for the individual, because it can be sad enough, but also for such a large number. Does the rapporteur agree that this was related to it? If we were to end up in a similar situation again, it would therefore be a problem for the fund as a whole to have to cough up with as much money as the 300 million remaining for insurance customers not covered by the Guarantee Fund. I mean, if that were to happen again, there wouldn't be much money left in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183727	I think the issue that arose was something special, and it was like that, whether it was 26, whether it was 2,600 or 26,000. Without making myself a judge in this Chamber about the course of events and the material presented to customers, I would say that the media described a situation in which, as an insured person, insurance could have been relatively easily bought in the belief that a guarantee scheme was in place, and it was very important to me that this was the situation. Nowadays, a guarantee scheme is available if you take out insurance from a company covered by the guarantee scheme, and that is now possible for more people to make use of. If, as an insurance customer, you choose to take out insurance in a company that is not covered by the guarantee scheme and you are fully informed about it then I do not think you can expect that we in the Danish Parliament will then come and pick people up. Then, as a consumer, a choice has been made. You choose insurance which may be cheaper, but then you are not covered by the guarantee scheme. This is not particularly solidarity with the insurance customers who have helped to build up the 300 million. kr. in minimum capital, if one can then lure that we are getting soft in our knees in here because there is a company going bankrupt where customers have deliberately and well informed opted out of a guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183858	Thank you. Despite my somewhat clumsy way, it ended up with the rapporteur finding out where I was going. Because it is true that it is all those who have been insurance customers in companies that have been covered by the Guarantee Fund who have paid the bill, and I agree that this was a special situation that smells a lot of cheating and humbug. I think you can say that from in here. I have one last very brief question. It is still optional to be covered in the Guarantee Fund or not. Of course, we all want that to be the case, I think the rapporteur also agrees that it would be best for everyone and we could have done that by converting the contribution you have to pay into a tax, because then we could have ensured that everyone operating in Denmark is covered because it is a tax. It would be the same amount or a small amount, but technically it was possible to make sure that everyone was also contributing foreign companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404183955	I think that the current structure is basically quite reasonable, and I think that the element of the draft law that ensures that you as an insurance customer are fully informed is important. If you are covered by the Danish guarantee scheme, you are covered by another guarantee scheme or you are not covered, and I think that is the best thing we can do, that is to say, that you as a consumer make an informed choice. That is why I think that the current financing model, which is quite reasonable, makes no sense, so I see no reason to change it. I think the most important thing is to ensure that consumers are fully informed about a well-qualified choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184035	We thank the rapporteur. My list says sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. We move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184103	Thank you, President. As several speakers have said, the reason for this bill is an unfortunate matter, namely the bankruptcy of Gable Insurance, which left several homeowners in a very dull situation, as they could not recover the costs they incurred in repairing damage to their house. This bill ensures that we will have better regulation in this area because it mainly corrects what I would call a policy error, namely that foreign insurance companies from the European Union and the EEA could not become members of the Guarantee Fund for Non-life Insurance Companies. They will be able to do that in the future, and it's actually a really good thing about this bill. Now that we have adopted this, we have legislation that means that responsibility also lies with consumers, because if they choose an insurance policy that is cheaper, for example. As a result of the fact that the insurance company is not a member of this Guarantee Fund, and if it ends another time, hopefully not with a similar situation, then it is a choice that the consumer himself has made, because what we also ensure in this agreement is that you are properly informed about whether the insurance company with which you intend to make an agreement is a member of the Guarantee Fund. So, of course, we can support this bill, as we are part of the contracting circle that is behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184306	Thank you to the rapporteur. And Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is persistent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184310	I just don't want you guys to have any dinner tonight. No. Now the rapporteur spent most of his speaking time almost saying 'Now the rapporteur must correct me if I am mistaken that this alone is because they, i.e. Gable Insurance, were not to be covered by the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. So I would just like to hear: does the rapporteur think that this whole morass is all about the rules being such that they could not be covered by the Guarantee Fund that this is the only reason why we were in this situation a little six months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184349	No, I don't think that's the only reason. In a market, there are also sometimes actors who behave irresponsibly. It is not a sensible thing to do on the market if you want to remain on it. If you provide a service to your customers who are just not good enough, and Gable Insurance has done so, then you cannot remain in the market. That is why there will always be some form of self-regulation. However, it is important that the regulation we have and make supports a well-functioning market. As a liberal, I am very aware that, in order to have a well-functioning market, we need good regulation that supports the market. I do not think we have had that, and I believe that this case is partly an example of this. We cannot know whether Gable Insurance would have been part of the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies if they had been able to do so. But if they had been there, we would not have ended up in the unfortunate situation in which we ended up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184459	We had still ended up in the situation that they would have gone bankrupt, because of how incredibly poor we must now look at whether it is directly criminal, but at least extremely misleading behavior they have shown and that the common box of money that all policy holders contribute to should still be used away to clean it up. So I am certainly pleased with the first half of the answer from the rapporteur, because there too I thought it was clear that this is not only because we had not created a proper framework in here. It is, first and foremost, a company that has by no means behaved responsibly, and in which we can also look at the figures, that it has actually affected the confidence of insurance customers in the insurance industry in general, and that is not fair either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184547	No, there is no great disagreement on that issue. As I said, in a market there will sometimes be companies that behave foolishly. The good thing about the market, however, is that you cannot get away with it in the long run because nobody wants to buy your products. It's that simple. I still think that there was a policy error here because they could not have joined the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies. I think that is a clear, clear error which I am glad to see corrected. By the way, I am also glad that I can use the last 24 seconds of my speaking time to improve consumer information as well. It is also part of a well-functioning market to ensure that consumers can gain insight into the product they buy. So that is good, and if something criminal has happened, it must of course also be investigated and lead to a conviction if it can be proved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184653	There's not actually 24 seconds left when I get up. Well, it's actually because time has passed, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Joachim B. Olsen It's like the group meetings. ) We say thank you. The next one is sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184710	I will be sure to stay within the speaking time, because I will be brief and thank you for allowing us to sign the agreement at the end. We're happy to back this joint solution that this bill is a symbol of. If there is to be something positive about it, we may already have to say that in the future we must all pay extra attention, both when it is something in the online world and something that is physical or insurance, that when something is almost too good to be true or price-wise lies in a rent that is quite different from that of the others, we should think twice about it. It is a good thing that we have then held a hand under those who must be held a hand underneath. So we support the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184749	Yeah, that's how short it could be. Now it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404184757	After all, a few months ago, we had to make an emergency agreement because 26 000 insurance customers had got into serious trouble on top of some of the most sloppy and unacceptable behaviour we have long seen in a company. The investigation is also continuing to go away to find out what was really up and down in that case, but at least Gable Insurance AG didn't have that at least it can be said that they weren't covered by the Guarantee Fund. Therefore, we were faced with 26,000 customers who could have immense financial problems if there was no rescue agreement. We then spent some of the money from the Guarantee Fund on that; the money which is, after all, the money of all insured persons, that is, those covered by the Guarantee Fund and who have paid it up. That's why I don't want it to happen again. It is totally unsolidarous to all those who have paid. That's not fair. There is both that part of what may be directly illegal, but at least also the sloppy behaviour of not being covered by a guarantee scheme. That is also why, while we were negotiating and reaching an agreement, I suggested that this voluntary contribution should be converted into a tax. It did not have to have any impact on the price of the contribution, but the mere fact that it is called a tax would mean that everyone, including foreign companies, would have to contribute. For the words in the text here that you have to keep an eye on, is that you can and not that connection is a common prerequisite for being on the Danish market. There was no political support for this. I will still allow myself to table it as an amendment, because I think it could make quite a difference. Our wish to companies operating on the Danish market is that they pay that contribution, that is to say that they will be covered by the Guarantee Fund if they are not members of a foreign guarantee fund that covers just as well. So why not just change it? We cannot force them to pay a contribution, because that is the EU rules, but we can of course say that if you operate on the Danish market, you pay a tax. It is just a question of words, but it means that everyone is going to contribute equally and most solidarity so that we do not find ourselves in this situation again. Then I would just like to say briefly that some of the things I would like to raise in committee are proposals that have come in different consultation responses during the consultation period. Some of the questions have been answered by the Minister. It may have been more a question of ambiguity about how to be covered, but one of the very simple things I think could be good in terms of creating transparency on the market is simply a website, as suggested by among others. The Consumer Council Think how you can clearly see whether your insurance company is covered or not. Because if you have taken out an insurance policy 7-8 years ago, it may be that something has changed so that your company is no longer covered by the Guarantee Fund. And then it's no use sitting at home with a physical piece of paper saying that the company was covered when you took out the insurance. I also think that there are some other good proposals, and we can take that in committee. But otherwise I would just like to thank the Minister for a good and quick process, which also shows that when it really burns on and we do not want to be colored by whether we sit left or right in the Chamber, we can act quickly and find a solution. It might inspire us in other areas. But here it was certainly a good process, even if I did not get all my wishes fulfilled. However, we have ended up with a situation that is better today than it was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185213	Thank you to a relatively satisfied rapporteur. Then we move on to the Conservative rapporteur. Sir. Anders Johansson, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185222	Thank you. The bill is the implementation of an agreement to which all parties of the Folketing have acceded. It's an agreement that was concluded following this trouble that was around Houseowners' Insurance, where many Danes were inadvertently hit by a bankruptcy at Gable Insurance from Liechtenstein. With the political agreement that is being implemented here, it will be possible for non-life insurance companies in EU and EEA countries to join the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies, while at the same time increasing the obligation to provide information for insurance agents in connection with the marketing of insurance contracts. For us, it is important that with the bill we create more security and greater transparency for Danish private insurers. I also think that the increased accountability of the legislative proposal is a good and important element in getting this done. As a consumer, it may be very difficult to see through under what conditions an insurance is drawn, so I think it is positive that we get the focus on the obligation to provide information, also so that in the future we avoid ending up in a similar situation as with Gable Insurance, where very many Danes in good faith think they have drawn an insurance that turns out not to be worth very much. I have also noted that the Minister is examining whether it is possible to make the system of transfers to the Guarantee Fund compulsory. This is something that needs to be investigated in relation to the European Union, and that is something that we will of course support. Let's see where it lands. But overall, the Conservative People's Party can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185358	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister, and that is why I welcome the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185409	Thank you for your positive comments on the proposal. In general terms, I thought there was a constructive view that we should, of course, have this resolved. Then there were a few questions, both from the Socialist rapporteur and from the SF rapporteur, which we can take today, but we can also take during the committee procedure. After all, the draft law intends to follow up the political agreement that we reached together on 1 December on dealing with the unhappy customers, insured persons in the Liechtenstein insurance company Gable Insurance in bankruptcy, and fortunately all parliamentary parties are included in the agreement. The bill must and can be seen as step two in the implementation of the political agreement we reached. The purpose of the bill is to increase the protection of Danish policy holders, both in connection with the drawing up of insurance and also in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company. In concrete terms, the draft law allows EU and EEA claims insurance companies to become members of the Guarantee Fund for claims insurance companies if, via a branch or cross-border service company, they provide consumer insurance on the Danish market. This means that Danish policy holders will be covered by the Guarantee Fund in the event of bankruptcy if they have taken out insurance in an EU or EEA insurance company which has joined the Fund. To become a member of the Guarantee Fund, a lump sum must be paid. The lump sum is fixed at DKK 50. per consumer insurance policy signed by the insurance company and in force at the time of entry into force. The one-off contribution is at least DKK 100,000. The one-off contribution must be paid by newly established Danish non-life insurance companies, as well as non-life insurance companies from the EU or the EEA, which choose to join the fund. At the same time, it is important that Danish policy holders take out insurance on an informed basis. It must be clear in which insurance undertaking they take out insurance and whether they are covered by a guarantee scheme either by the Danish guarantee fund or by an equivalent insurance undertaking's home Member State. As a result, insurance obligations for insurance agents, management companies, sub-agent companies and insurance distribution companies are being increased. In future, when marketing a non-life insurance contract, they must clearly state which company the customer is insured with and whether the company is covered by a guarantee scheme. On the company's website you should also be able to read more in more detail about the guarantee scheme of which the company is a member. This information must, of course, be provided in Danish. I think that this was a relevant issue, as the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, traveled here in relation to whether the information you get the website for a moment is also applicable later when they may have been removed from the website. We just need to get the drill out of the committee procedure, how we deal with this situation. We have already sent a notice in consultation which imposes the same obligation on insurance companies. Thus, the same disclosure requirements will apply regardless of whether an agent or insurance undertaking markets a non-life insurance contract. The new information requirements will ensure that consumers can obtain clear answers as to whether they are covered by a guarantee scheme, whether they buy insurance in a Danish or a foreign company. Finally, the draft law allows the Danish Guarantee Fund to prepare a legal statement on the possibilities of making a liability against Gable Insurance AG, the Danish Agency, as well as their collaborators and other advisers for the losses incurred by Gable Insurance AG's bankruptcy. Some of the discussions in connection with the political agreement underlying this bill have been whether it should be made compulsory for foreign companies to be members of a guarantee scheme when they take out consumer insurance in Denmark. As several of the rapporteurs have mentioned in the debate here, the model presented by this bill is based on voluntaryness. However, I have also said, and I would like to reiterate, that we are, of course, examining whether it is possible, within the framework of European regulation in this area, that there is a requirement for membership of a guarantee system. We are in the process of clarifying this, and in this way we can ensure on an informed basis that all insured persons in Denmark have a guarantee scheme in their backs if a non-life insurance company goes bankrupt. We are now in the process of clarifying this and, if possible, we will have to discuss it politically if it is possible to do so. We don't know yet. So in those words I would like to thank you for the many constructive remarks. We shall, of course, be standing in the course of the committee's deliberations on any questions that may arise. I am pleased that we have a broad political agreement in this area, and that is why, of course, we must also ensure that we get through this in a proper way during the committee procedure, so that everyone can get answers to their questions and everyone can see themselves in the agreement we made on 1 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185919	We shall have the first question right away, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is keeping the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404185927	Thank you. I was very pleased with the part of the Minister's speech about the fact that it is being examined whether it can be made compulsory. For the proposal I made when we negotiated the agreement to convert the voluntary contributions into a tax was not just about getting more money in the box or about having to contribute more, but it was simply quite technical about being able to ensure that foreign as well as Danish insurance companies should contribute. Charges are, of course, a national competence, so we could demand that, and that could just be the same amount as the voluntary contribution. If, instead, we can have a system where it is compulsory to be a member here, then that would be just as fine. That's the goal, not the means it depends on. So I would like to thank the Minister for that. If this isn't possible, I promise you I'll get back to you on this. There's no charge I can't think of, so we'll come back with that. No, but this is all about "and it's actually my question that we should never get into such a situation again. I hope the Minister fully agrees that this has been disastrous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190046	I agree with most of it, but not exactly with the view that there are different taxes we can assess here. However, I basically agree with this and we were also in the conciliation circle that we should work towards a scheme in which all insured persons in Denmark of course have an insurance scheme in the back, regardless of which company they are insured with. That is why, of course, I also think it is important that we send a signal to insurance companies that participation in a guarantee scheme can become a prerequisite for taking out consumer insurance in Denmark, also for foreign companies. However, we cannot introduce a requirement for membership of a guarantee system until we are sure that this is possible. That is why we must reach agreement on the basis of the EU's membership. We are in the process of examining and clarifying whether and how we can require foreign insurance companies to be members of a guarantee scheme. And when I get the results of that study, i.e. whether it is possible to do so, then we will have to discuss whether or not we will take political action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190149	Thank you. At the time we were told that it was not possible in Denmark alone to require companies to pay this contribution and that it should therefore be voluntary. That's why we tried to come up with this solution that the contribution was really just turned into a tax, because then you could do it. But I look forward to that, despite the fact that it may well have long prospects before there is a common European system. But it's gonna be exciting. My last question to the Minister is whether it concerns the Minister that the National Audit Office is sceptical about the 300 million. kr. the fund is enough, also in relation to the fact that a new foreign market and new insurance products are now being opened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190237	The first part first: we will have it examined quickly, and the FSA is also doing the job now. I will, of course, return to the conciliation circle as soon as we have the results of the investigation, that is clear. As far as the 300 million is concerned. kr., we have considered that it is reasonable. We constantly evaluate the scheme to see if more money is needed on an ongoing basis, but right here and now our assessment is also in dialogue with the industry that it is a reasonable level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190306	Thank you to the Minister for Industry, there are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190331	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404190351	The authors of the motion for a resolution B 66 want the government to grant a further 5 million. kr. to strengthen the participation of young and ethnic minorities in the municipal and regional elections on 21 November 2017. The proposers want to ensure that the electoral participation of young people and ethnic minorities is strengthened, on the one hand, through awareness-raising initiatives, as in the 2013 municipal and regional elections, and, on the other hand, through local out-the-vote projects in educational establishments, in libraries, in citizens' houses and in residential areas where electoral turnout is known to be low. Let me start by making it quite clear that the government agrees with the proposers of B66 that it is important to work to ensure democracy in the future. Of course, it is important that we anchor democratic participation among young people in Denmark. Democracy has been ill in many parts of the world, but Denmark is not one of those countries. Denmark is known in an international context for having one of the world's best electoral systems, and we in Denmark have a turnout that is towering in an international context. When young people have a slightly lower turnout, it is not an exclusive Danish move, but a general picture. In other words, care must be taken to paint a frightening picture of young people's participation in democracy in this country. For example, when I get there... I have been impressed by how well-informed and articulate young people I have met. Democracy lives and is well in Denmark, including among young people. Denmark has a strong tradition of high turnout. We can also see from the polls of the local elections in 2009 and 2013 that it is useful to make an effort to encourage participation in elections. During the 2013 municipal and regional elections, a major campaign was carried out to carry out the task of breaking the falling curve of turnout, and with a fine, fine result. In general, turnouts increased by more than six percentage points. For young people aged between 18 and 29, turnouts increased by over 10 percentage points. In 2013, large resources were invested, both money and an impressive number of working hours among local grassroots. A large number of companies also stood up to contribute to the task. In 2013, we had the opportunity to spend a total of 7 million. kr. from the decommissioned VAT fund to campaign, election polls and pilot attempts, but unfortunately it is the case that money can only be spent once and we do not have it anymore. Fortunately, we have both experience and a great piece of material from the last. That is why the government has also granted 1 million. kr. for a joint campaign with KL and Danske Regions up to this year's municipal and regional elections. Of which, DKK 200,000. earmarked for the study of turnout. The municipalities' National Association and Danske Regions have each contributed approx. 500,000 kroner. So it gives a total budget of 2 million. kr., and in addition, municipalities can purchase a wide range of products with the campaign logo, slogans and the like, so that the total amount will be over 2 million. kr. We build on the successful concept from 2013 under the slogan: • Think about before you don't vote. We need to use what works and we need to use our limited resources at all sensibly, otherwise we will be able to contribute to the politicians whom the authors of the motion very laudably wish to avoid. Each municipality contributes financially to the campaign via KL and must also place working hours and additional funds in the campaign itself. Therefore, it is crucial that all municipalities individually, regardless of their political composition, can see themselves in the campaign. It is therefore up to the municipalities and regions to carry the campaign out to the citizens. There is good sense in that, as you know, it is the choice of the municipalities and the regions. That is why we must also be careful, from a central point of view, to target the campaign to certain groups of people, because it should not be political or partial. In fact, I agree with the proposers and with the Elections Commission, as I remarked in parentheses, had the pleasure of sitting in that getting out the vote campaigns like the one we are planning is a good instrument for engaging voters in the election procedure. All good powers are welcome here. I met a few weeks ago with the Danish Youth Council, which also participates in the joint campaign and which has taken further initiatives. From the municipality, the region and the state, we must call for a vote and, moreover, ensure a secure and effective organisation of the elections. However, the task of mobilising the electorate must first and foremost be driven by political content, and it is also the task of the parties and civil society to get on the ground. The better the efforts of the parties to convince the electorate of what to vote, the more meaningful the effort to vote at all will be. I would like to conclude by making it clear that the government supports the efforts to get the turnout in words, in action and even with cold cash • in close cooperation with municipalities, regions and the Danish Youth Council with a campaign to reach all ends of Denmark, and with an election survey that on the basis of data will make us wiser on the state of Danish democracy. But democracy does not live primarily on campaign money. It feeds on the debate between citizens and the dialogue between voters and elected representatives. The proposers would like to spend 5 million. kr. even more for an even bigger campaign, but unfortunately they have not indicated where the money should come from, and it seems to be up to others to pick up the bill. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191004	There's a question. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191008	Thank you. And thank you for an exciting review. These are some of the same figures that we have been looking at in relation to how we actually managed to raise the percentage of votes in the last election. After all, I was assigned to the city council at the time, and it was quite exciting to see how buses were taken to the large stations, to the youth education courses and also to the residential areas. In fact, I saw that it worked, and the statistics show that too. Well, that's 5 million. kr. isn't cut or chopped in granite, or whatever you say. We are, in fact, most concerned that some of the things that worked last time will be allowed to work again. So I would first like to ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that with what is now in place and the work that the Minister has set in motion, we will be able to deliver the same thing in this election as in the last election, or whether the Minister also fears that we will see an effort that is weakened and that we will not see the same percentage of votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191104	I think we will see a great effort in the municipalities, in the regions too, with the work that I, at the Danish Youth Council, intend to do. I think that a great deal of responsibility is being taken, and I think it is appropriate that we support it from a central point of view, as we do with one million, and that KL and Danske Regions support with 0.5 million. each, so that we get a substantial amount in addition to what the individual municipalities had to post in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191131	Sir. Jacob Mark. Wasn't the minister finished? No, I was just breathing! ) You have to be careful about that! I'm sorry, the minister wasn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191145	I do not know whether I can promise exactly the same percentage of votes or the same increase effect as there was last time. I think we should be careful about that, even if we had set aside 2 million. DKK 5 million kr. or 10 million kr. However, I believe that an effort is being made which we will be able to see the results of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191201	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191203	Thank you. I'll try to breathe slowly once in a while! First of all, I would like to know what the Minister's success criterion is in relation to the percentage of votes. In relation to the next elections, I would like to say that it must mean something anyway. It is quite many million fewer people in the next elections. And some of what I fear is this effort to get out to upper secondary education or into residential areas where the percentage of votes may be lower than 50%. Isn't the minister worried about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191238	Well, I think we should pay close attention to what percentage of votes is going to come, including in this election. But first of all, we have the experience of the last, and we have also developed certain materials from the last, some specific traces in relation to what you can use. And secondly, we have set aside money to actually do something. So I'm kind of optimistic about it. I do not want to stand here and say that we should have a certain percentage of votes, but I think we should follow it closely. After all, we must look at the municipal elections, what developments are coming, and then we must deal with it if, contrary to expectations, it is a worse result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191315	I am sorry, Minister, but when there are too long breaks, the President believes it is time to say something. But I'll try to notice when the minister's breathing. There's one more question. I'll have time to practice. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191334	Thank you, President. But I fully understand that as a minister you also have to breathe and maintain self-discipline, tact and tone and everything else. But I would like to challenge the Minister a little on the question of the attitude to this, because it is also a matter of laziness. I mean, how much money are we gonna throw up because people don't bother to vote? They have several weeks to go down and vote for Citizen Service, at the library, or where the municipality is now setting it off. They have the opportunity to go down and vote on election day itself, and that applies to all the young people, all the older people and all sorts of others. Then I understand that we must, of course, make an effort to ensure that elderly people and disabled people can vote in care centres, etc. But the fact that we are going to send retired buses to the country's high schools and commercial schools, technical schools and everything else is too much. What's next? Bowling courts, Elders Case, bank centers, or where are we going? Where's the bus going, sir? Minister? I mean, I think it's totally crazy that you should spend money on it. If people don't want to vote, they just can't. It is a right to vote, it is not a duty to vote. I can see that in Fredensborg people have tried to get people to come by offering them coffee and cake. And then you're hoping people will come. Are we now also going to bring candy and soda to get the young people into the service of democracy once every four years? I would like the Minister to say just a little more in cash: this is certainly not the policy of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191503	No, but I believe, first of all, that the young people will hopefully have to vote more than every four years, because there are more kinds of choices. After all, there are parliamentary elections and European elections, and I know what. Secondly, I think that we have a joint responsibility to ensure that there remains the good support for our democracy as there is in this country. I think we will all benefit from this, not only as politicians, but also as citizens of Denmark. So I think it makes sense to do something to get people out and vote. I also said that it came from a electoral commission in which I myself had the pleasure of sitting, so it would be strange if I meant anything else today than I thought when I was on the electoral commission. But there was a worrying development that we had seen over a few years. And there we did what we said: okay, there has been a worrying development, and that is why we are making an extraordinary effort in 2013. We got really good results from that. But, of course, sir... Hans Kristian Skibby then right that it is first and last a personal responsibility in relation to the individual, i.e. whether the individual will assert his influence. But I also believe that we have a responsibility to safeguard our people's rule. I think that's what was done with the big campaign in 2013, and then we do it with a slightly smaller campaign here in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191623	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191625	Now the Minister mentions that it came from a so-called electoral commission. I just think it should be remembered that it sounds like more than it is. This was not the kind of electoral commission set up by the Folketing. It was, of course, a electoral commission which the Folketing did not really want to set up, and so it was the Danish Youth Council which, on its own initiative, created a so-called electoral commission and invited some politicians to join. So maybe it sounds a little more than it is. But that does not change the fact that there must also be some logical thinking in which we say that if you want to be a part of democracy, you must also vote. And if people can't trouble themselves and cast their votes on election day, that's fair enough. Then rules have been laid down for you to be able to give your letter voice. We are now up to several weeks prior to municipal elections and three weeks before parliamentary elections. There is ample opportunity to go down and vote. That's why it's so overkill in our optics that you're starting to want to spend the money driving buses around. In other words, the municipalities also have other things to spend on, for example. the bourgeois welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191733	But I am not trying to make the electoral commission any more than it was. I think it was a fine, commendable and commendable initiative taken by the Danish Youth Council. As far as I understood, all the political parties were prepared to send a representative, which is why it has worked as such. That seems to me to have been a good thing, and it has helped to make an effort, especially up to the elections here four years ago, where we really did something to solve the problem that we saw, namely that young people voted less and less, and therefore tried to get them to vote more. It succeeded, and I think you should be happy about that. However, I would like to repeat that, of course, it is first and last the responsibility of the individual. But it is also a problem for Danish society as such if you get into a situation where there are fewer and fewer people voting. I think we should be pleased to be privileged in the area of a high degree of participation in our people's rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191830	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions, and so we move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404191851	Thank you. However, it was a strange debate to listen to. I think it is absolutely obvious and crucially important, and indeed something we pride ourselves on when we are abroad, and also at home, that we make an extraordinary effort. It is a great value for our democracy that we have a high turnout, and when the turnout falls, it is something that we care about across parties and something that we must take seriously. That is why the authors of the motion for a resolution are quite right to say that what happened last time was in fact positive, because the trend in local elections was actually reversed after there had been a downward trend. But by joint action, not least on the part of the municipalities and the regions, I think it has to be said that we managed to achieve a plus of 6.1 percentage points. I would like to bring a little anecdote about something I experienced once on a plane in the United States, where I sat next to an American professor who, by the way, lived in Texas and was a personal friend, he at least claimed, with the Bush family. I don't know, because I never got a chance to verify that. But we talked about democracy, and I said: what we in Denmark think is the quite mysterious thing about your American democracy is the low turnout. He just didn't understand my point. He simply could not see that this was a problem or that we were concerned about it at all. How many votes do you have then, he asked. I replied that at least we have between 70 and 90 per cent, depending on what choice it is. But he could not see the problem at all, and it is like saying that some countries do not see the problem at all. We can do that. We think this is absolutely crucial, and I am not even saying it as a Socialist. I believe that this is the way it should be across all parties that the turnout, the turnout, the turnout, is a cornerstone of our democracy and some of what guarantees legitimacy for our democratic institutions. Having received this resolution, I have tried to check what is actually being done in the forthcoming elections. For dear SF, to say the truth, it is not because you are overburdened with written passages here in the proposal itself, and fine with that. So I've been trying to check it out. I think that sounds quite fine, but the challenge is a little where the money should actually come from, as the Minister also mentioned. Well, you have to find 5 million. kr. in the Folketing. I have been a member of this house for 12 years now, and I have not yet fallen over the box that you can just pull 5 million. kr. Get out of the way. So I have tried to ask around and I actually asked the Bureau if it has been up there and what is being done there. In fact, the Bureau has an effort to do, and what has been done by the Bureau is that it has changed the system of issuing the Constitution to all those who are 18 years old. This has been done until the last elections, but in the last elections it was done differently, simply waiting to send it out until the elections were held. And when you are close to a municipal or regional council elections, you send out the constitution to all those who have turned 18 years ago. You even send out a little handbook and, as far as I understand, a kind of comic book that describes the election procedure for these new voters. Researchers have apparently been set to investigate this, and they have shown that it has had a great effect that they have done so, and the Folketing has then chosen to do so again in addition to doing the things that the Minister mentioned and which are promised together with our municipalities. I think that is a good thing and I think that is sensible. If it is the case that the authors of the motion think we should do more, then I would urge you to contact the Bureau of Parliament. You can consider doing so at that stage or you have to come back with a more well-founded proposal on where the 5 million. kr. must come from. But praise for taking the debate. I am a little surprised that there is a debate on whether or not to do something. At any rate, I think it is absolutely crucial that we do something, and I fully support what is being done in the forthcoming municipal elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192309	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192321	Thank you for that and also thank you to the SF for putting an important topic on the agenda. In the Danish People's Party we think it is incredibly important that we get young people to vote. We also see that young people who vote when they have the right to do so for the first time come back to election after election to a greater extent than young people who do not show up for the first time they can vote. So it is, of course, extremely important to get hold of young people and especially first-time voters. It is incredibly important for our democracy that we can continue to have a high turnout, as has been said earlier in the debate. This is particularly the result of local and regional elections. However, as both the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur have said, this proposal is rather thin. A good enough reference is made to the campaign in 2013. It was in many ways a fine campaign, even though it also had certain kinds of times I shall come back to that later. The campaign was anchored in both ministries, KL and municipalities, and, as the Minister also said, the economy was then among other things. bound up with the VAT fund at that time, which we no longer have, so the money cannot be used again. That is why I am surprised, when this motion for a resolution is tabled, that no reference is made to where the 5 million will be found. kr. In addition, I must say that things are actually happening in Denmark, which hopefully will also get young people to vote this time. I know, in my job as media rapporteur, that both the TV2 regions and the Danish Radio are actually using their public service obligations to bring young people's attention to the forthcoming municipal elections and, in fact, have put major projects into the sea. So I expect a lot of that. So back to the things I seem to be limping a little at the last campaign. That's right when my colleague, Mr. Simpson... Hans Kristian Skibby mentioned that there were electoral buses that drove out to youth education institutions, and that was perhaps not the smartest thing. Because, yes, you might be able to get the young people to vote, but we saw among other things. an example from the Vordingborg area, where a voter meeting was invited at a youth education institution, but not all parties were represented. Few parties were represented, and after this debate we could then go out on the electoral bus and vote, that is to say, the voice of the letter. In fact, I think that is a distortion of democracy, i.e. if we do not even invite all parties to participate in the events in the places where the bus is held. I would think that if the campaign were to be carried out again on the electoral bus, we would experience even greater problems and challenges, because it has also been seen during the period since the last time that there are municipalities that have closed electoral stations due to savings. I think there are many of the citizens who are now getting further to a polling place, who will be surprised that the young people are suddenly able to drive an electoral bus to their educational institution to cast a vote. I have to admit that I very much agree with that, of course, no one wonders with my colleague, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby says that if you want to participate in democracy, you have to move there yourself. There is ample opportunity to vote, both in relation to the letter vote and also on the election day itself, when, as I recall, the opening hours have been extended, so we open one hour before. So the conclusion of the Danish People's Party is that it is important to strengthen democracy and efforts towards young people. It makes sense for us to have a dialogue and also to find out what initiatives are going on around the municipalities and in DUF, but I think that the proposers should be a little more specific in relation to where the funding should come from and what the content should be, and then we should look at it in committee. However, as it stands right now, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192656	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192659	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I am, in fact, very willing to go in and discuss funding in committee as well. I mean, it's such a small amount, because it's not the case that it has to be 5 million. kr. What we want is to step up efforts at the next elections too, because we could actually see that it had an effect at the last elections. I actually hear the rapporteur say that, but there were some inappropriate things that could be worked on out there. So what I really want to ask is that the rapporteur says that it is important to strengthen democracy and get more young people to vote. I also heard the rapporteur agree with his own party colleague that it is such a rather pampered attitude that we should come out to young people, because young people have ample opportunity to vote. I would just like to hear: what will the rapporteur himself do to get more young people to vote if, for example, it does so? isn't doing these things that worked at the last election?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192752	I actually think we were just about to say without doing anything, but of course we have to do something anyway will see a different effect this time, precisely because we have had school choices. Of course, those who have just voted are not old enough, but we have had it before. In fact, I think it is an important thing in terms of education in relation to democracy among young people that we continue to hold school elections. I myself went out as an electionored at my old primary school and experienced that the young students who were actually really, really happy to get to know democracy all of a sudden. And when you start there, already in primary school, it will also become contagious when you get the right right to vote in both municipal and parliamentary elections. So I am not at all as nervous about the future as the proposer is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192832	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192833	Thank you. As the rapporteur says, it takes a little time for us to pick the fruits of the school choice, which I also think is a very good idea. After all, it is not only young people who have problems getting to the ballot box. It is also a problem, for example. in some of the vulnerable residential areas. What does the rapporteur think can be done there? Does the rapporteur think that it is a problem at all that, for example, there is a problem in this area? In some parts of Denmark is a voting percentage of 50? Is that a problem for democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192900	Unfortunately, there are places where some people do not participate in democracy at all. The rapporteur is right. And it may then be due to several things. This may be because one does not have a tradition of it, that one should not according to one's religion. We also see Jehovah's Witnesses throughout Denmark who do not participate in elections. And there may be many other reasons for this. However, I do believe that the things that are also in connection with the forthcoming project of Denmark's Radio and TV 2 regions towards the forthcoming municipal elections, and the rapporteur is also the media rapporteur himself. So I actually believe that we are getting more people to vote, not just young people, but hopefully from all age groups and from all regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192941	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs, and that is Mr Beazley. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404192950	Thank you, President. I agree with the views of the Minister and the two previous rapporteurs on the importance of a high turnout for all sections of the population. The population group referred to in the motion for a resolution is the population of young people aged between 18 and 25, and it is the group that has the second lowest turnout. I believe that it is the group from 80 years onwards that has the lowest. Then the resolution also seeks to make a special effort among ethnic minorities. There is also a challenge with regard to the feeling that everyone must be part of democracy, the democratic formation that lies in participating in elections. What the money is to be used for is unconcerned, where the money is to come from, is unconcerned in relation to the resolution, which is why the Left, like the two previous sceptics, is also sceptical about the willingness to discuss the challenge, because, on the other hand, we are aware of the challenge. The Skepsis is also demonstrated by the fact that we may not believe that the Danish Youth Council is the right one in relation to a campaign among ethnic minorities, as it is not young ethnic minorities, but another group for which the Danish Youth Council is the target group. They are, however, in relation to the target group between 18 and 25 years, and they have also been the spine of the school elections, and perhaps it is also one of the answers, campaigns on school elections, and that we there try to involve the Danish Youth Council to look at what more we can do. Then, like the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I would just like to point out that in January, as an additional agreement to the media agreement, 5 million were added. kr. to the regional TV 2 companies to co-finance a joint project up to the 2017 municipal elections to strengthen young people's participation in the democratic debate and increase the percentage of votes among young people. Some initiatives have been taken. I hope that they will have as great and good and positive an impact as the assessment goes on the campaign up to the 2013 municipal and regional elections. However, there was also the element, I know, that a personal letter was written to all the first-time voters, and there is the evaluation that it had no effect. What has an effect, in 2017, we will have a little better common foundation to speak from in relation to the decided study. I think it is KORA who should look at what it is that is working, what the challenge is, what it is for some people, what we can do, and there we will also have a toolbox that can provide a basis for a good discussion on what we all want across the parties, namely to increase the turnout in democratic actions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193338	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193346	Thank you very much. After all, there have already been various comments and also some constructive comments, in particular from Mr Beazley. Magnus Heunicke and even Mr. Heunicke. Carl Holst. We do not see the major problems in this regard, apart from the issue of funding. I am particularly pleased that Mr. Carl Holst took up the second target group mentioned in the proposal, for the previous speakers and in particular the speeches by the Danish People's Party were, as far as I heard, mostly about the youth, but Mr. After all, Carl Holst took the view that we have at least as great a challenge in relation to some ethnic groups. And if we seriously believe that we need to strengthen democracy, then we must also make an effort to strengthen the participation of these groups in it. Everyone agrees that it is good for democracy that we encourage more people to participate in it and vote, as I heard, it should be possible, through some debates in committee, to have a report on it here. I think that is just to the right when you hear the comments that are coming. After all, none of the things that have been said are, in that sense, next to the dial, I think. So I hope so, and I could well imagine that the rapporteur for the proposers agrees that we should try. I also have to do the same as the others and say that I and the Enhedslist can easily support the proposal exactly with the wording it has under one condition, and that is that you find the money you would like to find for it, and that should not be an insurmountable task. And then I must say a little humorous and comradely to the SF: SF must soon have the yellow card to make good proposals that have not been financed, because this is the second time in this collection that we have seen it is possible that in other committees there have been similar examples. And we can't do that because we can hear how easy it is to shoot down if you don't have the money you want to spend. So, for that reason alone, you have to find that money, and that must be possible. So I look forward to seeing the positive side of the speeches that have been made all of them, including that of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Although I may think that the question that came from the Chamber was moving in a slightly different direction, I am glad that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that he too could see the positive side of this and was also open to finding a solution. I think that is very good, and I am surprised if the following rapporteurs are not also able to speak to it. So it is a good idea for us to find a solution together in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193649	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193656	Thank you. It's nice to hear from Enhedslisten that things also cost money. Let me say this from the outset: the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal, and it is in spite of the fact that we quite agree that turnout is a good temperature gauge on the state of democracy. When we can't support it, it's because of this money thing. This has not been financed by the local and regional elections of 2013 and, as you know, the campaign referred to by the SF in the proposal was funded by funds from the VAT Fund which no longer exist. The government has granted 1 million. kr. for a campaign, and I don't see where the last 5 million. kr. Come from. We will certainly hear that at the end of the debate, and I am convinced of that. In addition, it should not primarily be the responsibility of the government to ensure participation in local and regional elections in our view. This task should lie with the individual municipalities. After all, it is the municipalities that have direct access to the young people to whom a possible campaign will be directed. It is also the municipalities that can best assess where the effort should be directed so that it makes the most sense. Well, I actually agree with that, sir. Carl Holst said that the most important thing is how the media handle this issue. It is often there that we can see that there is a difference in voting percentages, that is, depending on how much media pressure there is. So I very much hope that the regional media will also know their visiting time. I also note here that the government will build on the campaign launched in 2013 rather than posting several million kroner in a new one. In fact, I think that is a sensible management of taxpayers' money. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193850	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193857	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The first question is whether the rapporteur thinks that in relation to the money spent on raising the turnout in the municipal elections in 2013, it was wrong and that this should not have been done. Then there is another question. The rapporteur also suggested that the Enhedslisten is such a party that simply makes proposals and does not provide funding and believes that we have money trees and what else was in that sentence. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can give some examples of the fact that Enhedslisten has put forward costly proposals in this Chamber without providing any funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404193941	Now I think we should stick to the case here. I am sure that Enhedslisten agrees that it was a good proposal that we took out of the bag at the last election, and the Minister also said that we must now see how things are going. Well, you shouldn't just headless post money in it. After all, many electoral analyses are being made, and I believe that it was timely care to do so last time, and then we will see how things are going. That's common sense. We shouldn't just surpass it once and for all, we shouldn't just put money in something without knowing that there's also a probability that we get something out of it. It's the kind of moderation we like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194028	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194029	Thank you. One part of my question was, of course, that I thought the rapporteur made a very categorical remark that it was up to the municipalities to find funding to make a move to increase electoral participation and that it was not something we should support here from Christiansborg, but it may be that I have misunderstood it. I didn't really get the answer to the other part of it. Can the rapporteur mention any examples of Enhedslisten making costly proposals without providing funding? And when I ask, it is of course because the rapporteur said such a bit cozy, but nevertheless it was nice to see that Enhedslisten is also aware that things cost money. So I would like to have some examples of this, i.e. whether the rapporteur can support the suggestion that Enhedslisten is simply making proposals without making proposals for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194116	It may be in theory that Enhedslisten sometimes also discusses some hints of where to find the money far ahead, but it is usually birds on the roof. I think there are a lot of proposals where you can go down in substance and then look at what kind of safety there is now for these birds to be caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194139	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194141	This is an exciting debate on the economy, I think, and I have a question for it. Because I really think it was a very constructive speech in which the rapporteur, like himself, stressed the importance of strengthening electoral participation, and I also saw the rapporteur as more accommodating than the Minister on this issue. So, if I now deal with a number of funding proposals in committee, will the rapporteur's party be ready to look at continuing some of these initiatives that were at the last election?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194215	We are always positive about good ideas. So let us look at it together in committee... no problem for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194218	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194220	Thank you. I'm glad. One of the reasons why we have proposed this is that, with the somewhat lower funding for the next elections, when it comes to increasing electoral participation, you do not have the same resources to build this democratic armament or what you say. So does the rapporteur not fear that something like sending out text messages and sending electoral buses into residential areas or into education, sending out this letter, in other words some of the many different measures here, which together have helped to strengthen the percentage of young people who have been in the vote, will now be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194256	I certainly believe that it is a range of many things that matter, and it is not my impression that interest is generally decreasing. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Looking at how many social classes come in here and how much attention is paid to young people and democracy, I am quite convinced that the general interest in this area is not falling. I think we should be careful not only to look at how much money you spend but also look out into society and say: what is really happening? I am actually very confident about young people and democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194330	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194337	Thank you. Like several of you, I also have a teenage daughter, and she said here the other day to me: Listen, Dad, when you talk about your work inside the Folketing, it sounds a bit like the conflicts we have in the girl group in class. And she said, "How can that be?" I tried to be a little philosophical and said that whether it's a school class, whether it's the Folketing or it's a company, people must be filled in and people have conflicts and people have dramas. Then she put her head on like teenage girls do, and she said, "Well, Dad, you're grown-ups." Then I said, yes, when you're a teenager, life seems long, but maybe it's not far enough for us to get so mature that we never have such conflicts. I know that we sometimes look like a chicken farm, even though we really have to run the country. I don't know if that was the right answer to her, but that was the answer I had there at the kitchen table the other day. The reason I mention this is because I think she actually speaks for many young people, and that is why I think we should work further to involve young people in democracy and show them that it is not just conflict and things like that. There are also lots of constructive, loyal and good ideas and hopes and dreams and ambitions, and I thought it was right, very good, that in the last elections we succeeded in raising young people's voices and interest in the elections, and I think I would like to support the extra effort that the SF is making in order to reinforce it. I think it is extremely important that young people have a clear voice in democracy and that we maintain that voice and that we support it. In fact, we often believe that democracy is a good idea throughout the world. War-torn countries must have democracy and we want to export democracy, but it is not always that we are equally good at selling it to our own young people. So even though they and my daughter may sometimes experience us a little like a chicken farm, I think we should try to compensate for that by trying to help increase the interest of young people in democracy. I also think that we should extend the groups a little. You could bring people at risk and other people who may not be able to get to the voting booth easily, and I think it would certainly be good if the SF found funding. Now it's 5 million. kr. I mean, not all the world, but they're gonna have to get there. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194635	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is free to leave the platform. I regret that there were no questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404194646	Thank you. If young people do not want to come to the elections, the elections must come to the young people. We must bring everyone with us when elections are in place, because using your voice is not just putting a cross at a party or a candidate; it is also a very central way of participating in democracy. That is why I call on the municipalities to take initiatives that will allow more people to vote locally at their polling stations. Some municipalities may be inspired by the City of Copenhagen, which moved a letter place into the middle of Central Station in connection with the last parliamentary election. Many voters took advantage of this. Perhaps you can get more young people to vote if the municipalities allow them to vote in letters at their place of education. The electoral law offers good opportunities for the municipalities to move the letter places where people are. The quote is from Margrethe Vestager, former Minister of Economics and Interior, from March 2013. At that time, since the 2009 municipal elections, a voting percentage of 66 had been observed, which was the lowest in 35 years, and among young people it had fallen from 54 per cent. 46 per cent. Since 1997. So there was a major task in ensuring that we continued to have a high turnout. She took the lead in motivating a whole lot of new initiatives, which should be about the fact that when the young people would not come to the elections, the elections would have to come to the young people. This had a very good effect, and a lot of new ideas were thought about, which is why I also welcome the proposal that the SF has put forward, because it is about the same thing on a long stretch: ensuring that there is a high level of participation in our democracy. The young people often have a slightly different picture of the world and perhaps also of voting today than they had just a few years ago. I am not saying that we are about to vote with likes or something like that, because we do have our processes, but they have a lot of good ideas about how to think new and different, and the examples we have seen lately are a good picture that there are new ways to go, which also raise electoral turnout. It is not only young people, it is also marginalised and vulnerable new dancers, who also had a declining turnout, so I definitely think you should think about this work. The Radical Left is always concerned that we can increase the turnout, so we also look very positively at the work, but we have the same issue as many others have raised here in the debate: funding, that is, where the money should come from. We are very willing to look at initiatives that can promote it, and we are also very willing to look at who should be entrusted with the task or take responsibility for the task, because it is not always the state funds that are best suited, it is often good ideas that come up. After all, it is very good that DUF is actively involved in this, because that is where you have some organisations of interest. So we take a positive view of it, but we also wait for it. In relation to funding, I would say that we are missing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195008	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195015	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for raising the debate. The purpose of the motion for a resolution we are debating here is to require the government to submit a proposal to allocate 5 million by 1 May at the latest. kr. further to an effort to strengthen electoral participation among young people aged 18-25 and among ethnic minorities. At first sight, it is a very sympathetic proposal, and I do not think we can point the finger at the intentions. A broad democratic formation is, of course, an important part of Danish society, and that is why it is also something that we, on the conservative side, have a focus on, for example. throughout our education system. It is important that in a society that is becoming more and more polarised, we also have some common references that make us experience having something in common, something that makes us a people or makes us Danish. Formation is e.g. such things as knowledge of our history, culture, equality and democracy, and the latter is really important. Because it is important that we educate our children early on to understand how a democracy is built up. In fact, I think it is far more important that our education system is focused on democracy every day than that we make a campaign every four years to get young people to vote. I understand perfectly well the good intentions of the authors of the motions, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution for a number of reasons. On the one hand, the Minister mentioned that some initiatives have been set in motion and, of course, we support them, and on the other hand there is what several people have mentioned, namely that no funding has been allocated. Finally, however, I would also like to mention that it is also about local elections and local priorities, and there may be differences between municipalities in how to prioritise a local campaign. The municipalities are free to choose to make an effort if they feel they need it. With those words, I would just like to conclude by thanking the SF once again for raising the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195226	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195233	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the many comments and comments and welcomes. There's one I'd like to comment on. It was a member of the Danish People's Party who made it sound like it was a little spoilt to make these moves • to want the young people to vote, so the young people had to pull themselves together in the course of these 3 weeks. And I agree that, of course, young people should go up and vote, of course, all people should go up and vote because they have that opportunity, but nevertheless we have the challenge that it is not everywhere, and I think we have a joint responsibility to try to promote it, that there are more who go up and vote. Because I think that high turnout is something to strive for. This is not just something we must take for granted in Denmark either. High turnout gives the elected representatives legitimacy, and I also believe that high turnout is an expression of a commitment to our democracy that is healthy. And that is why I do not think it is spoiled or unwise that, as a Parliament or as a municipality or region or media, special efforts are being made to get young people to vote. For the most important thing we can invest in is democracy, especially in these times. That is what was done in the last municipal elections. As I said, I myself was a council member at the time, and what was experienced was that turnout generally increased by 6.1 per cent. in relation to the previous municipal elections. This was the highest turnout for 32 years except for the municipal and parliamentary elections in 2001. And it was also seen that there were significantly more young people who went up and voted. What was the success out there with us... I think I can say... it was here that buses were driven out into residential areas, into upper secondary schools and up to the station. I think that made more people vote. Municipal elections may sometimes be somewhat remote, and so can regional elections, as Mr. Carl Holst, it may be a little distant for some people, and I think that the fact that the election was so visible everywhere made it more present. What research shows is that good democratic habits are being created during the youth years. And so I do not disagree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when the rapporteur says that there may be cultural differences which mean that it is not normal for everyone to go up and vote for an election or actively participate in democracy, and that is precisely why such an effort can help to teach some people to be active in democracy. I think that is important. Then we have some particular problems, and this has also been highlighted in the debate, both with ethnic minorities who do not get the same vote as their fellow citizens, and with young people who have not yet got used to voting. And I think this effort is worth continuing with. Then the Minister says that some initiatives have been set in motion and that lessons have been learnt from what happened last time. I think that is more than sensible, and I would also like to sign for that. I can just be concerned whether it will be the same options that are at the next election when such a huge drop in the appropriation has taken place. That is one of the things I would also like to be involved in examining in committee. It is difficult for me to see that exactly the same things can be done, and I hope that the municipalities will be involved in prioritising this, but I doubt that everyone will have the same opportunities as they last had, and I think that is a pity. So I think this was something to sit down and look at in committee. I also hear that there is, in fact, such a broad feeling among the parties that there is a desire, and indeed perhaps also a willingness, to take up the debate, because it is more than just a number of millions; it is in fact also an exciting discussion about how to get more people to participate actively in elections such as municipal and regional elections. Then I would like to take note of the fact that I have received the yellow card from the Enhedslisten to make this proposal without funding. I therefore agree that it is not right to make a proposal without funding, but a one-off cost of 5 million. kr. I think you can find. In fact, I also think it would be a pity if it were some kind of financing proposal that one or the other did not agree with, which was used as an argument for not voting in favour. We saw this in the Chamber earlier today. There will certainly always be a reason not to vote in favour of a resolution, and I was actually more interested in starting a debate on whether this is something that could be further worked on. However, I would like to make sure that I have at least four funding proposals, one to the blue block, one to the red block, one to the green block and one to the block of change. And then, of course, we can take the debate on exactly what is needed from there. So I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195724	There are a few questions. It's first, sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195730	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jacob Mark for his concluding remarks here. When you listen to Mr. Knox... Jacob Mark, it sounds almost as if the campaign we had four years ago was successful; that is to say, it is the one you have to go for again, it is the only right thing and there is a 5 million missing. kr., before you can do that task again. But that is not true, because many other things are happening. We have already mentioned some of them. Sir. Jacob Mark has also helped to find 5 million. kr. from the excess licensing funds to the TV 2 regions, precisely in order to carry out the task of getting young people to vote. Recognizes Mr. Jacob Mark, isn't there actually enough from other pools and to other projects still gone, as the main heading, is as much money as last to get young people to take an interest in democracy and vote in the forthcoming municipal elections as there were four years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195820	Yes, I accept that. And I'm also glad that we had some of the excess licence funds set aside for this, because both parties, the Danish People's Party and the SF, agreed that this was important. Nor do I feel that there is necessarily a result, but I can see, when I look at the things written about last elections, that some of it has worked. Well, it's worked to send those texts and at the same time to get the buses out and send letters out, so I could also see that out in the municipal elections. This does not mean that we should not develop further, and I really think that was a rather interesting point that the rapporteur mentioned, with those high schools where there are only four parties. Well, I think that's something you could work on. However, I may be concerned that when the allocation falls as drastically in relation to the last elections as it does with what is now in place, some of the good initiatives which I have no doubt caused the vote to rise last.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195912	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195915	In relation to the polling stations and the physical location of the polling stations, is it not true that the municipalities must actually decide for themselves where they have their polling stations and that, if they so wish, they can actually place them in an educational establishment on election day, which will then be open to all those who live in that constituency, so that it is not only the young people who go to the educational institution who can vote in an electoral bus and, as the rapporteur himself said, perhaps after a electoral meeting where there have only been four parties represented? Is it not true that this is actually something the municipalities can decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404195944	Yes, that is true, but it costs a little for the municipalities. And I fear that some of the municipalities under pressure will not give priority to this. Well, they're gonna take the polls they've had since I was a kid, and then they're gonna say it's their polls again this time and then skip the a little controversial, like you did last time. I also remember it from my own town council. You know, some of the things that made you focus on this, driving a bus in the middle of a residential area or putting it up at Køge Station, where I came from, was actually this pool and this whole campaign started. I fear that some of it will run into the sand, I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200014	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200017	Thank you, too, from me to Mr. Jacob Mark. I think that there is a slight tendency towards thinking that any solution to the challenge and the desire to increase electoral participation should be centrally achieved through a fixed campaign. One of the things that I believe was responsible for the success of 2013 was that it was just driven so locally, decentralisedly. I know, sir. Jacob Mark has a municipal political background in Køge City Council. Thinks sir. Does Jacob Mark not believe that the solutions to the challenges can be so different that it should be more up to the individual municipalities? Ethnic minorities are a greater challenge in municipalities than in the municipality I come from, for example. And is it not surprising that the municipalities do not contribute more to increasing electoral participation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200114	Yes, I think it is quite true that municipalities are fighting with different problems. In some municipalities it is difficult to get young people to vote; in some places you have many older people; in some places you have many unemployed people; in some places you have vulnerable housing areas. But I just think that for municipalities that are under pressure on the economy, this is not at the forefront of the priority line. This will not be at the forefront of the mayor's budget catalogue when the draft budget is presented next year. There I think it might be exciting if we said, as a Parliament, that we would like to make a joint effort here. And I don't think it's gonna matter to ask the municipalities to pay a little more if you do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200155	There must be some trouble with the technique, because I did not mark it to speak the second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200202	The questioner has the floor, but apostates. Excellent. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak nor has the author been asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200243	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Joel as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200254	Thank you for that, President. After all, we have just had a debate here in the House on how to get some more young people to rush into the democratic debate and participation, and I am not 100% sure that with this proposal, I would say to the Minister, we will provide one of the best reasons for it. Frankly, to put it bluntly, it is a little nerdy and a little bit technical, but that is why it may be important anyway. It is about the grid companies, about our electricity distribution, so to speak, the part which is not competition-exposed, and the legislative proposal, and following on from the agreement we have made with a wide range of parliamentary parties, is intended to create a new financial regulation based on the framework within which the network companies have to act, that is to say, what they have to charge for the actual costs they have incurred in a previous period, for the conclusion of a multiannual agreement. In this way, it can be said that if the framework is known for some years to come and if there are additional effective ways of doing so, there will be a gain for network operators, an incentive to make an effort. It has also been part of the discussion to ensure that you can not only get for operation and construction, but also for a return on the capital you have had to draw in. There is a bit of a fun place to throw away your money, because it is not very uncertain whether there are customers in the store, because that is where there are lots of electricity customers, and that is why of course you should not have a return similar to the one you get if you invest in other more risky things. On the other hand, we must of course be able to attract capital, including in this sector, which is why it is important to have a chance of return. When we look at the financial framework we get, we can say that there are also carrots and whips in place to keep getting better. There are benchmarks, which popularly said means that you are being measured up against the best in the class, and there is a general efficiency requirement that says that even the best in the class must also be better all the time. These are excellent and sound principles that we, the Social Democrats, support in relation to this regulation. Then there is also something about separate identity, and that means simply that the companies that trade in electricity must be clearly separated from the companies that are the network companies, in other words those that are not in competition with anyone. That is a good principle, and we are in fact fully in favour of it. I think we need to discuss whether the way we have chosen to implement it may sometimes give some a bit of fun. I have been informed and understand the draft in such a way that the service companies that are in some of these groups may in fact be able to service a customer who is a gas or water customer, but if they are to service the same customer, but now have to look at his electric meter, they have to change their clothes because they can no longer be called the same thing. If that's right, I think we should look at how we practically make it manageable, because that's what happens with the participation... no one outside this house would understand, if that's what it is. However, we support the intention that we should have a logo separation, that we should have an identity separation. There is also an outstanding one, I think, in order to clarify what you are doing when you discover that you have to invest in new things that have to support green conversion or move us forward in some way, because if you now get a framework on the basis of the costs you had in the previous period, what do you really do if some new ones arise? We must, of course, be absolutely clear about this. But we support it. There are also a number of other technical things, but we can of course see if anyone will ask about it along the way, and otherwise I would say that the Social Democrats support the part of the proposal which, of course, implements our vote agreement. There are also a number of good things from the sea in this proposal, and we have to discuss in committee how much of what is actually within the agreement we agreed to when we concluded the vote agreement, which was primarily about the separation of identity and the financial regulation of the network companies. In those words, we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200727	There are no requests for short remarks, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jan Rytkjær Callesen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200737	The bill, which we are dealing with here first, translates into the voting agreement that the government and almost all parties of the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, entered into in November 2016 on a new regulation of the electricity network companies. Work towards a new regulatory regime was started back in 2012, when it was decided to carry out a thorough overhaul of the sector, and therefore the Committee on Electrical Regulatory Affairs, which has since made its recommendation for a new regulatory regime, was set up, leading to a political agreement last autumn. In brief, the new regulation provides that electricity network operators will in future be granted a five-year revenue framework which corresponds to the expected cost of running businesses. If the company achieves an improvement in operating efficiency within the five-year period, the company can retain the profits and thus obtain an incentive to streamline. After the end of the five-year adjustment period, companies will be granted a new and lower revenue framework which reflects an improvement in efficiency in the past regulatory period and therefore less revenue is needed than has been the case in the past. In this way, electricity consumption will benefit from efficiency gains when the revenue framework and therefore consumer prices are reduced. In the Danish People's Party, we expect the new regulatory model to ensure an efficient electricity distribution sector that provides reasonable prices for electricity for consumers, and at the same time we expect the model to support that we continue to have a very high security of supply in Denmark. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200943	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next one on the platform is sir. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404200956	Thank you for the floor, President. I should like to say hello from the usual rapporteur, Mr President. Thomas Danielsen, who is not present because of happy circumstances. As you know, he's on maternity leave. The Left supports the proposal, the first draft law in the government's supply strategy, the first in the implementation of the agreement reached in November last year. The elements of the draft law have been excellently explained by the two previous rapporteurs. What the Left is concerned with is that it has a firm view of ensuring security of supply, fair prices, fair competition and consumers at the centre. That's why the Left supports it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201057	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201118	It is incredibly important that in the future we also have well-powered electricity networks with high security of supply, which can be an important part of the sustainable infrastructure of the future, where we will have a higher electricity consumption for transport, where electricity in the heat supply will hopefully have a greater importance and where the electricity grid will ensure better use of renewable energy produced in Denmark and used in the best way in Denmark. We have a climate agenda that will also affect the framework conditions given to network companies. There is an agreement on the future of the network companies, which Enhedslisten is also part of, so we agree with the first part of the bill. Until now, the Enhedslisten has in vain worked to ensure that the economic model makes it possible for innovation to be better implemented so that better network operation can be achieved. It could be control systems so that electricity consumption can be moved to a greater extent so that expensive grid reinforcement can be avoided. These could be solutions that help consumers to reduce energy consumption more and can ensure that the peak of peak consumption can be reduced. And these could be new solutions to problems in the future that we have not yet seen. It is a disadvantage of the agreement that the bill slows down investment in new technology that cannot earn its way home in five years. Does the Minister think that only five-year-old investments should be made in society? The Danish Energy Agency's response shows that network companies may continue to be required to invest in something specific, such as the adoption of remote meter roll-out. This is an excellent example which is already happening. Can we not find out how many years it takes for a new electric meter to make a living? It is probably more than 20 years than the five years set out in the bill. This is one of the Hurds of this, namely that it is too scraped a model if it is the case that innovation must be given sufficient priority. There is a series of consultation responses which draw attention to the problems of innovation and the lack of economic opportunities to prioritise it in the continued maintenance and expansion of the network. I always find it exciting when a hearing answer brings about changes. Among other things, there are: a hearing response from Nordvestjysk Electric Supply, NOE. It's a small company with 28,000 shareholders. They are located in a slightly atypical area where there is greater energy production than energy consumption in periods, so we are dealing here with a company that may experience that there is sometimes so much power going through the grid that it is equivalent to 1.200 per cent. more electricity distribution than electricity consumption. And this is an area where they can also see that there are fewer customers, that there are houses being closed down and that maintenance costs are higher because there is more salt in the air there than in other parts of the country. So they point out that they have some special conditions, and I think it is very good that here in the consultation note we can see that the Danish Energy Agency has read the consultation answer and that it might be that the model for the operation of the network companies should also set in as a parameter to see how much power is being transported in the network that is in each network company. I think it is very good when you listen to consultation answers and try to adjust the model that had otherwise been agreed. There is another part of the bill, which is such a bit of a collection of what apparently should just be picked up on, and I think that that part of the bill should be looked at very carefully. I think there are some less neat elements. It has been found that there is some local district heating production that runs in a way and with subsidies that are not EU-approved, and then you want to abolish that possibility of aid. I think that we should have looked very carefully at the committee procedure if there is not another aid scheme to which the three district heating plants can be put. Specifically, this means that heat consumers in Hillerød will have an extra bill of 20 million. kr. per year, the heat consumers in Brønderslev an extra bill of 10 million. kr. and the heat consumers in Marstal an extra charge of 2 million. kr. A solution should be found to this. I also do not think it is good for legislation to be proposed retroactively, so that the subsidy is taken from some sparkle engines from 1 January 2017. I don't think that's fair. That part of the bill needs to be looked at more carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201624	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then comes the trip to sir. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201630	I would like to say that the rapporteurs before me, and perhaps in particular, Mr President. Jens Joel, as he has explained very well what the content of the bill is, so I will refrain from doing so. What I and the Liberal Alliance are particularly sensitive to here and in the context of the new economic regulation is that, as framework legislation, it must ensure that consumers are given a fair price and a high level of security of supply. In fact, this is part of the government's overall supply strategy, which includes: to ensure a high efficiency and efficiency of up to 600 million. kr. Last but not least, regulation must also support a demand for new and more efficient technology. With those words, I would just like to say that I and the Liberal Alliance support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201737	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404201744	The alternative is that it is positive that the proposal seeks to create more equal competition in the electricity sector, among other things. by separating monopoly roles and market roles. We also think it is positive that the proposal is based on the recommendations of the Committee on Electricity Regulation. But there are some things missing. Danish Industry, DI, e.g. a green investment pool recommended but not included in the bill. DI also makes reservations that the details should be laid down in an announcement and that it is precisely in a case such as this where the devil is very much in the detail. This is a very comprehensive legislative proposal and it may be quite right, but the consultation answers generally show great uncertainty about the consequences. That is why I need a thorough clarification before we can take a final position in the alternative. The alternative has not been included in the development of the proposal and we need a technical review or otherwise help to understand the overall proposal. Perhaps there are others who could use such a review. For example, SEAS-NVE's consultation response, in which they write that the proposal for economic regulation is very general and bears the hallmark of the fact that the overall mechanisms of economic regulation are not in place. This, as well as the resulting ambiguities and incoherence across the legislative proposal, is a cause for concern. It is also a fundamental concern that neither politicians, authorities nor utilities can really understand what the consequences of the bill will be. Several consultation parties, e.g. Danish Energy, Intelligent Energy and SEAS-NVE Net state that the proposed new economic regulation will prevent network companies from participating in innovative projects with a longer profit horizon than 5 years, which have a positive social value. However, many of the innovative solutions may be in the slightly longer horizons than 5 years. The Consumer Council Think, for example, about the failure to extend the regulatory period and to propose a rapid unbundling analysis, which has also been proposed by the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology. These things are missing. So all in all, we are somewhat sceptical on the part of the Alternative and look forward to becoming wiser and seeing whether the work of the Committee can bring improvements and greater clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202011	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then the trip has come to Mrs Sanne Bjørn as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202018	Thank you. This law must set the framework for a new economic regulation of the network operators, and it must then again ensure this efficient electricity distribution sector at reasonable prices. Then the Minister can lay down the rules on the revenue framework when the network operators ensure that they are identityally separate from the electricity trading companies. One can abolish the two aid schemes for production plants, Energinet.dk has to pay a fixed amount, and there are a lot of other and minor changes, as previous rapporteurs have also explained. I shall be very brief. After all, this is a large and complex area, and that is also why the Committee on Electric Regulatory Affairs was set up. It has now worked hard and has made these recommendations which we think it is very sensible to implement. We believe that current regulation of the electricity market is important, and we also believe that this will probably not be the last time, but that we will see ongoing regulation. So the Radical Left will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202125	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to Mr SF's report. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202135	Thank you. L 180 is the first legislative proposal to follow up the government's supply strategy for the future electricity supply, which must benefit citizens and our businesses. With L 180, we will implement the agreement of 4 November 2016. We must ensure economic regulation in the electricity distribution sector effectively, with prices that are reasonable and so that electricity consumers continue to have a high level of security of supply. Security of supply is absolutely crucial in this game, which is why it plays a major role. The new regulation will, of course, make a contribution to the efficiency of up to 600 million. kr. in 2020. Another part is reflected both in the government's supply strategy and in the recommendations of the El Regulatory Committee, and this is a strengthening of the separate identity of the network company. This is a tightening-up which must ensure that electricity consumers are aware of the company they are dealing with and must ensure that network operators, such as monopoly companies, do not indirectly market themselves as commercial undertakings. The proposal should strengthen competition in the commercial market, and the draft law also provides for the abolition of the two aid schemes for electricity from the special installations using biomass as an energy source. The scheme will not be closed until January 2017. I would like to draw your attention to NOE's response to the hearings. It is a network company which, at times, has enormous pressures in terms of wind power, which must be transported, and they have a major problem with grid losses because they have to absorb energy. If at the same time we think about the utility network, it's not certain that it's built to take off this energy exactly, which means that they have a huge net loss. This is one of the things that I think we need to look at in committee to see if we can implement. But the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202356	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202406	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the bill. The government is pleased to present the first bill that follows up the government's supply strategy. It is thus the first legislative proposal to implement the government's plans for the future supply, which must benefit citizens and businesses. I hope that we can have good cooperation on this and on the future legislative proposal for the sector. The draft law implements the very broad voting agreement of 4 November 2016 on a new economic regulation of the electricity grid companies. Regulation is based on the recommendations of the Committee on Electricity Regulation for future-proof regulation of the electricity sector. I sense that there is broad support for introducing new economic regulation from organisations, end-users and large parts of the industry. The new economic regulation must ensure an efficient electricity distribution sector with reasonable prices for electricity consumption and a continued high level of security of supply. The regulation must support the demand for new and efficient technology. The new regulation will help to achieve efficiency gains of up to 600 million. kr. in 2020 for the benefit of citizens and companies in Denmark. The government is also implementing a second part of the bill, which also follows up both the government's supply strategy and the recommendations of the El Regulatory Committee. It is a question of strengthening the separate identity of the network companies. The sharpening must ensure that it is clear to electricity consumers what business they are dealing with. It must ensure that network operators, which are monopoly undertakings, do not indirectly market commercial undertakings. The proposal will therefore support competition in the electricity trading market. In addition, the draft law provides for the abolition of two aid schemes for electricity for special installations using biomass as an energy source. The arrangements have been closed with effect from 1 January 2017 and repealed in order to bring Danish law into line with EU law. Finally, the bill contains rules that Energinet.dk pays a lump sum to cover the costs of tasks in the Danish Energy Agency, the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Energy Agency until the end of 2017. At the same time, it provides for the levying of a fixed amount of tax to cover the costs incurred by the Ministry of Industry for the operation of the Supply Secretariat and the performance of its tasks for 2017. As a whole, I am very pleased with the draft law, because it is precisely the first legislative proposal to follow up the government's supply strategy. Finally, I would like to thank you for the interest in the legislative proposal that has been put forward today. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the legislative proposal in committee, and I am pleased with the comments that have fallen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202709	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202715	I regret that I am not going to prolong the debate, but we have actually not really discussed the government's supply strategy. So I just want to hear the Minister who is now making a big deal about the fact that this agreement is part of it: can the Minister point to something that has changed as part of the government's supply strategy, or is it all, in fact, just as it was before the supply strategy arrived?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202740	I do not quite understand the rapporteur's question. I just need to know what the rapporteur really wants me to express myself on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202748	I think I was just a little surprised by the fact that we had made the regulation agreement here and the follow-up to the recommendations of the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology, which we, in fact, agree that the press release that went out afterwards said that we had now landed the first element of the supply strategy. Because that, as far as I knew, wasn't what we had been to a meeting about. That is why I just asked if there was really something in this proposal that had not already been agreed before the end of the year, that is to say, something in substance that was not already clear before the supply strategy was put on the table. That's just what I wanted to know if the Minister agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202820	Thank you. Thank you for the question, I would like to answer that. Well, there isn't immediately. But it is also the case that the government's supply strategy is, after all, an overall strategy towards 2025, with a view to improving the efficiency of the whole sector. After all, this work is part of the strategy towards 2025 in terms of efficiency, in terms of finding the economic benefits, in terms of guaranteeing consumers and businesses the lowest possible prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202846	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202850	I thought Jens Joel's question was very relevant. I do not think that the Minister should try to make a child on other parties. We have had a preparatory work and looked at whether there should be changes to how network companies should have a framework environment. It has thus had a birth that has been far beyond what the government has so planned to look at all sectors of the supply sector. So I do not think it is right that this should be done so that the most important thing in it is that it is part of the government's supply strategy. It is, in fact, more embedded in the energy conciliation that dates from 2012. So I do not think it is fair for the Minister to draw history into a contemporary process, when it is actually more something that concerns the energy agreement of 2012. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404202942	After all, the government has presented a supply strategy towards 2025. This is also included here, but the questioner is also right to say that this work in relation to this bill is not something that has started under this government; in fact, I think it started under the previous one, perhaps even under the previous one, in relation to the regulation of the whole electricity sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203002	Thank you, Minister. No further questions have been raised. Is there another question? Then you have to press the button. Søren Egge Rasmussen Yes, it is quite common that you can have two questions). No, you have to press the button again if you want another question. If there's one more question, press the button. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203017	Thank you. After all, there are various elements about changes in network operation, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will respond to the criticism that there may now be electricity trading companies going bankrupt or having a loss, in which case it is a loss that the network companies have to take over, despite the fact that it may not concern them at all. Is that fair to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203047	These are questions that I would like to discuss with the questioner and on which I think we should be able to take a meeting. This is a relatively technical issue, but basically it is a question of ensuring that there is free competition, and when there are companies competing in a free market, there is also a risk of subsequent bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203106	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I would like to point out that the Bureau has decided to apply a new system, so if you want to have your second question under short remarks, you have to press again, and that is the practice now. So it's just for information, for the previous questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203206	The debate is open and I give the floor to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203216	I hope those buttons are under control now on a day when we've also had to get up and vote. I think it is very good that we should get the technology under control before we start the last treatment here at 9:30 in the evening. The bill we are discussing here we are working together, so now I will try to take it all under one, even if I had actually got it split up. But it's about the financial situation of spouses and is an offshoot of the Legal Action Committee's • It's a great Djøf-word • Report from 2015, which contains a proposal for a new legislation on the financial situation of spouses. One can say that the basic law itself is from 1925 and therefore one cannot think of anyone in it if at some point they have taken a look at it and thought: I wonder whether this is actually true, compared to the fact that this has happened a little bit with the gender pattern in our society and also a little with the divorce rate. It might well be that, on the basis of a 1925 law, we should look at whether we now also have legislation that is up-to-date. You are really surprised when you look at it and discover that it is no further from the window than it is. Well, it has been relatively durable, considering that it has survived so many years. But, of course, some minor adjustments have been made, and I believe in some way that it is mostly the people in the whiskey belt it concerns. At least I've been sitting there feeling totally alienated. So when we are often accused of being very far away from reality from what we are doing legislation on, I would like to admit that on this point I am incredibly far away from reality. Just the thing about wealth sharing and how to make marriage pacts about your fortune and something like that, I'm not gonna admit that I've just been on the wallpaper. Nevertheless, we have taken a very thorough approach. For the people involved, that is of course incredibly crucial. And that's why you've had to get to know this whole area of property law. That's very interesting. So, what's going to change? The first thing that's gonna change, I understand, so that's the first thing I'm gonna do. It is that so far people's marriage pacts have been seen on registration. I still think that is pretty wild, and that means that See & Listen and other magazines have been able to obtain information about different people's private relationships. This is fundamentally contrary to my view of what things should be like. So it's really good to change it. Now you can be allowed to deal with each other in private. So far, so good. The next thing we're going to talk about here is that you get the right to own your own assets, and you get the opportunity to assess for yourself what kind of agreements you can make with each other, namely that you can make them both on percentages of the fortune and on crowns. Clearly there is a great demand for this and, since we have no fundamental opposition to people having their own money and agreement, what they do with them, we naturally support that part of the bill. Then the protection of the home, that is, that a spouse cannot just sell the family's home without the other consent, is also incorporated into the legislation. And that also applies to cooperative housing and houseboats in the future. So far, it's only been owner's residences. And it can be seen that this is relevant, since cohabitation costs a little more today than they did in 1925, also in proportion. So I guess that's a very good idea. I have the challenge I have mentioned several times during the negotiations, which is why I say it loudly from here that it is really good, fine, because it provides protection for both spouses in relation to what they perceive as their home. But it is quite necessary for people to know this because it is legislation that is done retroactively. And that's why I'm just saying it out loud from Parliament's platform. There may be 10-15 people sitting and looking out there, and we can hope that some of them have a cohabitation and get divorced. If so, we should know that rules other than those which have been adopted so far apply in the future, even if we are married at the time of their entry into force. And that's why people have to get to know them. But I think there is a piece of information that is not insignificant in this respect. Otherwise, I think there is someone who can get the impression, or at least feel that they have been raped into a deal other than the one they really thought they were making. So there is some information work on what we need to get our hands on. But overall, it can be said that these are a number of minor adjustments to one and the other, and I can see that for those who have a fortune to share with each other in divorce, it might be very nice to have this legislation updated. So the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. I have had the honour, on behalf of an incredibly large number of parties, to say that they can also support the bill. I had to say from the Radical Left that they also support the bill, and I had to say from the SF that they also support the bill. Now I have once stood up here for Enhedslisten, so I dare say that Pernille Skipper from Enhedslisten supports the bill. But there's always such a "but" when you come from the Enhedslisten. So I dare say that up here from the platform, because she has written that there should also be a gender balance, so she will have clarified that in the committee work. But she is immediately positive, and Enhedslisten is immediately positive. So all in all, we welcome the course of negotiations that has taken place and the technical reviews and all sorts of other things. We couldn't have missed it, and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203703	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then the next in line is Mrs Karin Nødgaard as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404203714	I speak only on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I can greet and say. Legal texts can often seem heavy and complicated and can be difficult to read, and the two proposals we are now working together have certainly not been an exception. This may, of course, be due to the fact that there is a great deal that requires complete clarity as to what the laws mean, including in the long term. And then there must always be a good reason why you should go and change a law, and in the course we have now been through, I have found out that there is a good reason for this when it comes to these two legislative proposals. Old laws are not always bad laws. It may well be good laws, it may be laws that need to be adjusted, and now that we are in a situation like this, where we have a law on economic conditions that dates back to 1925, it is quite clear that there are many things that may have changed, especially in the family field. In particular, it can be said that depending on how you fit into families today and how gender equality is and has changed over all these years, it may of course be that there are some things that it may be essential that we go in and look at and adjust. That is why I have also taken note of the whole process that we have been through, also in relation to what the Social Democrat rapporteur said, which has, of course, been very comprehensive: there has been a long process of negotiation, a lot of questions and technical reviews, etc., and it has been important to simplify and clarify the laws as well. The fact that the language may have been a little rubbed also makes us aware that something had to happen. It is also the case that when love is great and you are in love, you do not think that there may be a day when you choose to divorce, and in spite of that, it is the attitude of the Danish People's Party that while love for each other is intact, there must be a focus on how you want to put each other, if you choose to break up one day, if you do not want to have a complete equality and equality. There may be things that can be important to be aware of, and in this way we can hopefully also divorce as friends and not as enemies. If a legally binding agreement has been made in advance, I really believe that much will be easier and, I hope, less conflicting at the time when the divorce is inevitable. For me and my party, there is no doubt that the conclusion of a marriage is a very big decision in life. The same is true if you choose to step out of it. Of course, the Danish People's Party finds it sad that it has actually become so easy to resign from marriage in connection with the possibility of immediate divorce, but if the divorce is then the last resort, then there should also be a clear understanding of how one has been placed and how both parties have been asked for it I think one owes one another. That is why, as the two legislative proposals put forward here, the overall review of the legislation in this area is now being carried out and, as we heard earlier, it is the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which has been the basis for us now to go in and look at these matters. What I have emphasized is, of course, that the main elements of the system currently in force, that is to say. The system of equal opportunities is being continued. It must be the spouses themselves who enter into agreements on solutions involving a different division of wealth and find a system which is exactly suited to the situation in which each couple is now in. Then there is also a part of the bill which suggests that some information on the main principles of the sharing rules should be prepared, and there I think it is very important and it is of course the Danish People's Party's Party's pleasure that we have been included in the comments • that it should be encouraged that the parties seek some legal advice in connection with all this, because, as I started by saying, it is very legal, it is a very pretty language, it is difficult to understand, and therefore it is important that the parties, even when love is great, think about how they can actually ensure each other how they will handle it if they break up one day. There may also be what you might call the weak party in quotation marks, and there is the question of how to ensure that this party is also protected. That is why we think it is very important to try to encourage people to obtain legal advice too, so that it is done in a way that everything is transparent. As I said, many hours have been spent on what is being spent less hours on this in this Chamber, but that is a sign that the preparatory work has been good, and I would like to say now that I have some follow-up questions to the proposal which has emerged in connection with my sitting and writing the rapporteur's speech and so on. But we look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204209	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204216	Thank you, President. The Left supports the two draft laws. One is a consequence of the other. I would like to say hello to the Liberal Alliance and to say that they also support them. The reasons why we support them are set out in the speeches of the two previous rapporteurs. Perhaps it is also an element that all the provisions on the financial situation of spouses are now being brought into a single new law. And then there is a comment that the rules are being brought into line with EU legislation in this area. We look forward to further work and support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204304	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then the ride's come to sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204326	Thank you. This is an incredibly important piece of legislation that we are working on here in the area of family law. The people who will need it are under intense pressure, so in the alternative we have tried to see if we could make it as simple as possible. It is not always easy, because it is a very, very technical area of matter. I don't want to repeat everything. I think it has gradually been well described by the previous rapporteurs, and I will not be able to make it as lively as one of the previous rapporteurs did. But we've actually been through a lot of negotiations deep down in this, down in lots, lots of middle bills. I also think that from the perspective of equality we have achieved well in the country. I think we have cleaned up and updated the rules on the financial situation of spouses in connection with a divorce. And in the next chop we are going to look at a more simple system of divorce law; it will be really exciting negotiations. So right now I just want to say that the alternative is pleased to be able to vote in favour of both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204426	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And the next speaker is Mr. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204434	Thank you. I will be very brief. Many wise words have been said about the two legislative proposals which bring together and modernise the rules of the law on legal effects, which have a few years on the back; it dates back to 1925, so it has actually done well. I think that some of what we have to return to at some point, and which is not part of this, is the rule on pensions that has not been changed. We have seen some unfortunate things about divorces and marriages where one side has come out badly. But it probably comes at a later time. Otherwise, I would say that the Conservative People's Party supports the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204532	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204546	Thank you for that, President. When love is great, you don't think that a day will come when you're getting a divorce, Mrs Karin Nødgaard said from up here just before. I really think it was very grand and that it fits well with the seriousness of the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and also acknowledge receipt of the proposals. Sir. Torsten Gejl said that these are two good legislative proposals from a gender perspective; I think that is quite right. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil mentioned a concern about cohabitation, and I fully agree that information work which is directly targeted cohabitation owners is absolutely necessary. Then Mrs Karin Nødgaard mentioned among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is also true that old laws are not necessarily bad laws, just like what Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil mentioned. I also think that there is something rather grand about and amazing about standing and modernising a law back from 1925, and we are still out in the little bit of grip. Well, we're not out in such a major revolution or major transformation. So it has long been a wish to have more modern rules on the financial situation of spouses, and that wish is also fulfilled by the proposals here. At the same time, we are continuing the law and the basic system; I also believe that the system of equal treatment remains the best way of sharing the wealth of spouses by divorce and death, if nothing else has been agreed. On the other hand, at the same time, we are improving the opportunities for spouses to agree on a system of assets appropriate to their situation, and I must also say that I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil that it is very good that we should now make marriage pacts inaccessible to the public, because what joy does the public have? What we are working on is legally very heavy and therefore it is also important that we have a good committee procedure. I am, of course, also at the disposal of the committee to answer any questions it may wish to clarify. But so far I would like to thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204754	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170404204809	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 5 April 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
