ParlaMint-DK_20170202100031	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution No. Β 62 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the SU disability allowance for pupils in vocational training). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100115	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100151	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100209	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 63 (S, V, LA and KF), against 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100249	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100306	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100340	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100401	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100431	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100449	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100635	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100700	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL) on Amendment No. 4 and 5, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendments Nos. 4 and 5, adopted by the Committee. 6 and 7, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100737	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100756	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 16 (EL, RV and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 8, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-7 and 9, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202100902	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? It does not appear to be the case, and then the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101048	The debate is open. Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101113	Thank you. The draft law gives us a new main law which lays down the framework for dealing with cases of scientific infidelity and cases of questionable research practice. Precisely the distinction between cases of scientific infidelity and cases of questionable research practice is very important in the draft law, since, according to the draft law, cases of scientific infidelity are to be dealt with centrally by the Scientific Injustice Board and the individual research institutions are to deal with cases of questionable research practice. The bill is based on 12 recommendations on international practice by the Oddershede Committee and focuses on the process of handling breaches of responsible research practices by establishing, as I said, the framework for dealing with cases of scientific infidelity and cases is questionable research practice. With respect for, among others, on the other hand, the Danish Code of Integrity in Research does not in itself regulate what is responsible research practice. As in the past, it is expected that the concept of responsible research practice will be developed over time in the research environments and that the research institutions will take responsibility for continuously informing their research staff about the policies and procedures applicable to the institution. I agree with the many consultation responses which state that it is neither possible nor desirable in the legislative proposal to define perfectly clear, unambiguous and finally developed definitions. On second thought, this often applies regardless of the professional skills we speak of a carpenter, a nurse, a schoolteacher, etc. Everyone has difficulty in describing what high professionalism is to us, who do not share their profession, but they themselves are not in doubt when they see actions falling under or beside their ethical standards, just as they are not in doubt when their profession develops and reaches new heights. Today, the three committees of the Committees on Scientific Integrity may deal with scientific products prepared on a private basis if the private company or the like has wanted to be covered by the committee's competences or wishes to contribute to the disclosure of the matter. However, the draft law limits the scope of the law to cases relating to research carried out with full or partial public support. Research carried out solely for private funds is therefore not covered by the draft law. In other words, if the conduct of research carried out privately for private funds is questioned, it will be up to the company concerned to take steps to investigate the matter itself. It is clear from the comments that the amendment includes, among other things: It should be seen that cases of scientific infidelity can be quite extensive and complicated to settle and it is not considered reasonable to use public resources to provide private matters. In my view, this is certainly a serious argument, just as the argument that research in the pharmaceutical industry is already regulated in very detailed terms by other legislation has to be said to be reasonable. However, we are still concerned about the question: how is it ensured that private-funded private research is properly assessed? That is why, in the committee's examination of the draft law, we will try to clarify that question further. In addition, when we look at the consultation answers and notes, we find here, which deals with the scope of the law, and on a number of other points wordings such as that the draft law has been revised in line with the comments and several of the more concrete observations are included in the revised draft law, as well as many of the consultation answers have led to clarifications in the comments. I see this as an expression of a good consultation process and, with those comments, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur, Mr SF. Jacob Mark, and tell the Danish Parliament that SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101548	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101557	Thank you. This bill is actually very good. Over recent years there have been various cases of scientific infidelity, where there have been discussions both outside and within scientific circles as to whether the decisions are correct, whether the system, the basis is as it should be. This is precisely why a new set of rules is currently in place and has been created on the basis of recommendations from the so-called Oddershede Committee of 2015. It is a set of rules that are also parallel to systems that exist in the world, for example. in the United States. What is crucial about such a set of rules as this is that the rules should be clear and transparent and, above all, recognised and accepted in scientific circles. It must be the guarantor that any decisions on cases are valid and reliable, and I believe that this system will prove to be able to live up to that. I'm building that, among other things. That the consultation answers are largely positive and that the proposal has taken into account to a large extent the criticisms raised in the consultations. The proposal also includes annual reports from the Scientific Integrity Board, which I look forward to receiving in committee so that we can follow the implementation and application of the law in the coming years. All in all, this is an excellent proposal which the Danish People's Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101716	Thank you. I do not see the rapporteur of the Left, so we move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202101739	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we are fundamentally positive about this bill. It is good to keep an eye on whether we have good research standards. Scientific malpractice can have very serious consequences in its extremes, which is why it is good that we have a framework for it. We have also noted that, in relation to the original draft proposal for a proposal on scientific maladministration, part of the legislative proposal has been amended. For example: such a dubious concept as self-aggression has been given to the draft law, and we see this as something positive. I would like to make a few comments on some of the paragraphs. Paragraph 2 of the bill on the scope of the law restricts it to publicly funded research at a public Danish research institution. Why this restriction? There is also research at the public Danish research institutions, which are privately funded, and research funded by foreign funds. In our view, they should also be covered by the law. It is not acceptable for us to operate in this way with different standards depending on the source of funding. No. 2, No. 1, deals with things that are not covered by scientific infidelity. We do not understand why this shortcut is needed. Counterfeiting, as it says, of results is certainly unacceptable in any case, regardless of whether or not they are less important for specific research. In Section 13, para. No. 1 3 and 4 states that it is possible to refuse to deal in substance with cases if the costs are not proportionate to the importance of the case or if the case has a very small link with Denmark. The Enhedslisten is not sure that these two considerations should justify that cases are not dealt with in substance. It doesn't sound right to have that sort of thing in the legal text, and in practice it can be difficult to manage, or it can become a small, uncontrollable loophole. A small page note of the bill could be whether there is sufficient legal certainty for the individual researcher. We know, of course, that a decision on scientific misconduct can have very far-reaching consequences for a researcher, and that is why we should perhaps consider whether there should not be an appeal body in the law, so that there is an opportunity for the researcher to have his case tried because, as I have said, it can have quite far-reaching consequences for the researcher, not only in the specific case, but also for the researcher's further work in general. But with these comments I would say that we are in favour of it and will try in committee to see whether we can obtain a majority in order perhaps to change a few of the points I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102109	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102115	Scientific innocence is actually a very complex issue. Let me give you some examples of this. Max Weber's famous article on Protestant ethics and the spirit of capitalism is actually flawed. There is one of the columns that gives 109 instead of 100, and if you correct the error, there is in fact no difference between Protestants and Catholics' attitudes. But the error has never been corrected, and the article lives and is a famous classic. The scientific community has somehow judged the article to be acceptable. A few years ago I also taught large-scale social science classics, and many of these great classics have been created by research practices, which today would be totally unacceptable, infiltrating social groups and not telling us that research is under way, but nevertheless providing its research results. It points out that to a large extent it is necessary to leave the self-righteousness of researchers to find out what is dishonest and what is not dishonest. It's something that can move historically. On the other hand, there are cases such as the Penkowa case, where there is a serious case of manufacturing and fraud, and this type of case should, of course, be intercepted. There I think that the Oddershede Committee has actually done a very good job, so it is the serious cases that are being hit, but where it can be said that the cases where one disagrees or where there is in fact more need of scientific self-justice, one avoids the judicialisation of scientific disagreement and uses the means of self-justice that are actually in the scientific community. A good job has been done by the Oddershede Committee. The distinction between scientific self-righteousness and really legal regulation is very good, and that is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102326	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102332	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the alternative also supports this bill. When the Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentions this here with examples, I remembered that we also had an example. After all, our former Minister of Education came in a storm shortly after the elections last year in a process which was quite unheard of unfair compared to the extent of what had happened, and I think that is actually some of the things that this bill is going to counter, in other words that there are differences of degree in terms of what sorts of errors can be made in scientific practice. So, in this light too, we very much welcome this bill. I don't want to go into details, but there are a lot of things in this bill that we think are really good. I would just like to congratulate the Minister on the process, because I think this is an example of one of the processes that we should have many more of in the Folketing: we identify a challenge, we need regulation or an adjustment of this legislation, and you have a purpose that states that we must strengthen the credibility of Danish research. Then you set up a committee of experts, which makes 12 recommendations, then you make a legislative proposal which largely follows these recommendations, you also provide for a sufficiently long consultation period, and you actually incorporate many of the comments that have been made during the consultation period into the final legislative proposal. So if we could just make more legislation like this, I think we would all be more happy and satisfied. I think that's what I'm gonna say from up here. I will spend no more time on it than saying that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102514	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102522	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we warmly support this draft law, which would also be strangely different. Perhaps I can pick up the thread from the Alternative's rapporteur and praise the process, and although I would really like to throw it at the Minister, I would rather throw it at the Ministry, for once, which is dealing with this kind of matter and takes these issues so seriously that they are just putting up good recommendations, so that in 2015 a committee of experts was set up with the excellent Oddershede as chairman, who has been very thorough. It is really, really important for Denmark's research reputation, and it is good in the world, and it means a lot too much more than the research itself, that it is maintained and that the integrity and credibility of Danish research is very high. Therefore, it is also important that there are proper procedures to account for maladministration, to clean up any researchers or to the contrary, and that it is a process and a board that has the approval of all the researchers, both public and private, that are in progress. That is why the call from the Radical Left must also be made that, in relation to privately funded research, it is therefore very difficult to make this distinction with the fact that it is only public research that can be cleared through a board of scientific innocence. At any rate, I find it difficult to see the good arguments for this, other than that it can obviously be more comprehensive, probably not violent, because it is very, very few cases we have in this area, fortunately. But it can be more comprehensive, and it will, of course, cost money. I think that it could be dealt with very easily, as some of the consultation answers say, by charging a fee for what it would cost the title of scientific error to take cases for privately funded research. I heard other rapporteurs, even the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, mention this problem, so I hope that the Minister will consider how it can be put together in a good way. I agree that it is not something that needs to cost public money, but outside the world, the reputation of Danish research is independent of whether it is publicly funded or privately funded or funded. That is why it is absolutely crucial that it is the same board of directors, I think it is at least where I am now. The Minister may of course try to make me wiser; if there are other arguments, I would very much like to listen to them. But immediately I would hope that this could be included either by means of an amendment or by other means in the legislative process, so that private-funded research could also be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102854	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202102902	Conservatives broadly agree with the proposal. Society spends a great deal of money on research, and it is therefore also important that we can rely on the research results. I see a few problems in the bill. The draft law is imprecisely drafted in Section 2 on which cases the Scientific Integrity Board is likely to deal with. In Section 2 (1) (a) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following paragraph shall be added: 1, it is stated that the law covers research carried out in whole or in part with public Danish support. I can easily understand what "hero" means, but how much or how little you have to put in the term "partly" it is 15%. 20% or 20%. or 30%.? I've been asking the Ministry about it, and they haven't quite answered that question. Conservatives believe that we must try to define clear and unambiguous rules far along the way. It is of course not entirely unimportant for a researcher, and it is, regardless of the vague sanctions provided for in section 16, whether one should be in the category of scientific misconduct, or whether the case actually already, because of minimal public Danish support, falls to the de minimis limit. There is also a need to take account of the financial resources to be devoted to the handling of cases; among other things: should not deal with cases where the cost of the proceedings is not proportionate to its importance, as should fraud in private research projects. So something suggests that you want to limit the amount of cases and make it more streamlined. Therefore, it would also have been useful for the law to be clearer about what should be included in the concept in part. We, the Conservatives, would have liked to have looked into this in greater detail in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103107	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Jakobsen Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103115	Thank you, President, and I am sorry. Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, a very effective working Parliament, so I apologise for my temporary absence at the beginning of the proceedings. It won't happen again. We have a proud tradition in this country to ensure high credibility when our researchers produce reports and find new knowledge and cooperate with others. I think we should take pride in that, and we do so today. After all, it is absolutely crucial that the results produced by our researchers have a high credibility, that research can be used, that research can be built on research and that research can be turned into new products and jobs because quality is at its top. My colleagues on the platform have explained, I think, well what the draft law contains, so I do not need to botany that much more, but I think it is important to mention a few things. The proposal provides an up-to-date framework for dealing with cases of scientific infidelity and cases of questionable research practice. The proposal regulates these matters more closely and deals with matters. On the basis of the recommendations of the Oddershede committee's report on the system of unfairness, we are proposing that this central board should be set up, and of course we think this is an excellent idea. The draft law also regulates the framework for dealing with cases of questionable research practices, so that responsibility for dealing with breaches of responsible research practices must lie with the institutions, while the handling of cases of actual scientific infidelity is dealt with in the central board so as to become the new practice. This division of responsibilities then contributes to the research institutions focusing more on the responsible research practice. These are therefore very few adjustments to existing legislation, but that is what is needed in order to maintain the credibility of our research environment. When we are through the technical, I feel the need to say a few other things. It is that I am extremely happy and satisfied that we have managed to find so much parliamentary support for these changes. I think that is a good thing, and I think that is important, because it is precisely the need for us to be involved together in ensuring the rules of the practice institutionalised when assessing and ensuring the quality of our research. So I think that, on behalf of the people's regime, you can express your satisfaction with the platform, and that is what has been done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103345	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103354	Thank you for the fine debate that has been going on. The aim of the bill is to build on the great commitment to the integrity of research, which the Danish research environments have prioritized in recent years. The bill shall contribute to increased focus on the integrity in question. This should be done by creating a modern framework both for dealing with cases of scientific infidelity and for dealing with cases of questionable research practice. In December 2015, 12 recommendations were made by the Oddershede Committee for the adjustment of the Danish system of unfairness. The draft law is based on the recommendations of the Committee. We are calling for closer regulation of cases of scientific infidelity. The proposal proposes the creation of a central board with sole competence to deal with the cases in question, and an important part of the legislative proposal is the greater role of research institutions. They must therefore be more closely involved in the cases of maladministration at the central board. The draft law also regulates, as something new, the framework for dealing with cases of questionable research practices. The responsibility for the concrete handling lies best with the institutions, and it is therefore laid down that it is the duty of the institutions to deal with cases of dubious research practices. Firstly, the allocation of responsibilities should contribute to an increased focus on responsible research practices within each institution. Secondly, the proposal will lead to a more effective handling of cases of actual scientific misconduct in the central board. I therefore thank you for your comments and look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103527	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103542	The debate is open, and this is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103602	Thank you. In the autumn a broad political agreement was reached on the framework for what will henceforth be called the Danish Free Research Foundation. The agreement was concluded on the basis of an international evaluation which showed that the Free Research Council is basically very well functioning, and this is something to be welcomed. At the same time, the evaluation identified a number of recommendations for improvements that the agreement has accepted. With L 118 we translate the agreement into two lines below the importance of the effort being made by what will now be called the Danish Free Research Foundation. Free research is essential and an indispensable link in the research chain from idea to use. With free research, we identify problems we did not know and solutions are being created to challenges we had not imagined. Free research is based on the best research pages and that research is necessary for the development of our society, because it benefits both companies and the public and all of us. Novo Nordisk A/S is a good example: a Danish company that has created jobs and great value for our society. Novo Nordisk's research director, Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, said a year ago that Novo Nordisk's success is precisely based on fundamental research discoveries made by the university. This is where it starts. This simply underlines that it is very positive that we are now supporting the framework for free research with L 118. Amongst other things, it is now available. the possibility of setting a waiting period for applications with clearly inadequate quality, and the possibility of allocating special appropriations in future to specific research thematics outside the usual financial framework. It is positive that the agreement we are now putting into effect has broad political support for the framework of free research. As a society, we rely on the good ideas, and that is why we must give our best researchers the opportunity to learn more about those areas that have not yet been explored. This happens with L 118, and the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. As with the previous draft law, I should like to welcome the rapporteur, Mr SF. Jacob Mark, and tell that SF also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103844	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202103853	As has just been mentioned, this draft law follows on from the 2014 International Evaluation of the Free Research Council where there were some requests for minor adjustments in the construction around the council. Then this bill came out of it. We have discussed the individual elements. Among other things, it has. have been discussed with the current Council and it has been adjusted to this quite reasonable result. Among other things: We have been discussing such important things as changing the name from council to board and fund. Can you give advice if you are a fund, or do you have to be called advice? Since the tasks are exactly the same, one can of course give advice, also as a fund, but it has been important to get in place, because the very essence of this is that the qualities that have been in the Free Research Council and that must lie in the Free Research Fund are absolutely the same, namely that money is given for free research. Another thing that has been added is that we have made it possible for the fund to be assigned tasks in areas where we have a political desire for priority thematic research. What has been central in this context has been the fact that the funds to be used for this must, so to speak, be defined separately and given to the fund. When we have wanted to do so, it is of course about the fact that, in some areas, the Free Research Fund is better at implementing the research funds than the Innovation Fund would be. The structure and structure of the Innovation Fund require it to be very business-oriented, and there have been examples of research that more focused on how the welfare society worked. There have been some examples where it could be said that it would probably be better if it were in the Free Research Council or in a free research fund. There will be an opportunity here if we can keep track of the money, and we can of course do that. In the end, it is always the politicians who decide how the money is distributed. But here we assume a certain discipline in our own ranks, and of course we can assume that when we do this. With those words, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104109	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104119	Thank you. Research and innovation are crucial to the development of our society. The older you get, the more you pay attention to the fact that without relevant research and without innovation in companies it will be harder to ensure welfare and create new jobs. That is why I am also extremely pleased with the legislation we are discussing today. I think it contains some relevant changes that ensure that the two bodies we are involved in regulating the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council and the Danish Free Research Foundation are given optimal conditions for working. The bill ensures that we have a new and unified structure for the regulation of the two bodies, and the proposal is, of course, the implementation of the agreement we reached back in October 2016 with virtually the entire conciliation circle. L 118 proposes that we should continue with much of the legislation in force, which has worked sensibly for both bodies. Last time, the framework for the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council was adjusted back in 2014, and in this framework there is now a need for small adjustments. In relation to the Free Research Council, the existing framework is also largely continued. The aim of the Free Research Council must also be to provide funding for research based on the researchers' own initiatives, and the Council's fundamental purpose must therefore be maintained, but proposals are being made that we change a number of other matters, as my colleagues have already explained. I do not think it surprising, as rapporteur for the left-wing party, that these are quite sensible proposals. That is what most of my colleagues in this Chamber think. However, I feel the need to note a few other small things in the context of the debate on innovation. Denmark is a country with 5.5 million people. I think that if we did a quiz here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but now only the rapporteurs and the Minister are present, so I do not want to expose anyone to it, nor do I have the opportunity to do so, nor do I have the opportunity to ask the audience, how many bodies, institutions and other things exist in Denmark to help with innovation and entrepreneurship, the majority would in fact be very surprised that in a country with 5.5 million people we have more than 250 public bodies, including municipal and regional institutions, for this purpose. Now we have made legislation that regulates two of them, and that is good legislation, and I know that our colleagues in the other rapporteurs are thinking of the same thing. However, it is simply a bound task to ensure that public job therapy is not the purpose of many of our innovation policy strategies and growth crowns. It simply cannot be right that in a country which has no more inhabitants, we spend so much public money advising companies without necessarily having a proven effect. What is quite interesting is that when you look at a generation of companies and in Denmark there are about 25,000 new companies with a CVR number every year and then go 5 years ahead, about half of these companies are either broken down or bankrupt. Perhaps 1,500-2,000 of them have gained more than five employees, while less than 150 have become real growth companies. That is what it is all about: it is all about ensuring that our innovation funds and our growth funds are used to create jobs and growth and sustainability. Now we have made sensible legislation for two of the institutions that are helping to feed knowledge into the system and help to ensure innovation. The next, therefore, is also • even though our rapporteur's area of responsibility and the legislative process are slightly affected by the fact that it is being passed on to the business sector. I think we need to talk about this with our colleagues, and I can assure you that the government is fortunately in the process. That is how I am going to say: thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104448	Thank you. Jakob Engel-Schmidt Has this given rise to any questions? ) No, it has not raised any questions, otherwise I would say so. Sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104504	We are in the Enhedslisten mostly positive about this bill. I would like to make a few comments which may lead to us trying to make some amendments to the draft law. If you look in Section 8 paragraph. No. 2, No. 4, you can see that there is a requirement that there should be experience in the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council with the application of commercialisation of research results. We do not believe that such a requirement is a necessary condition in relation to that body. Section 14 states that the Danish Free Research Fund grants grants to specific research activities in the fields of politically determined themes or instruments, when special funding is provided for this in the annual grant law. This paragraph could be a slippery one compared to the whole idea of free research funds, but the last part of the paragraph, which stresses that only money is included in the annual budget law, can hopefully be a stop for this. The Board of the Danish Free Research Foundation may appoint up to 75 members of the standing committees. They shall appoint both the members of the committee and the chairmen of the standing committees. Perhaps it would be more engaging if the standing committees themselves chose their presidents or if the board elected the chairman on the recommendation of the standing committee. In the legislation in force, these committees are referred to as trade committees. We hope that it is understood that the standing committees in their essence are still professional committees. I would also like to mention that a hearing from the University of Aalborg states that 75 people are too few. They believe that this figure should be increased to 90 on the basis of an estimate of the total workload. It may be difficult for me to assess whether it is correct, but it is a relationship we should try to talk about. In section 28, paragraph 1. 3 states that an appropriation from the Research Fund may be allocated to a natural or legal person. Allocation to a legal entity rather than to a specific researcher may be a slippery path which may lead to the use of research fund funds for the general operation of the institutions. When the draft law does not contain a legal entity, but says a legal person, it can be interpreted positively that it is not intended either. That's what we're gonna do. We are of the opinion that that paragraph should be deleted. There should not be a waiting period because a researcher has made an application material that is too bad. It should not be particularly time-consuming to reject such applications, and this should not mean that the person concerned cannot apply again and has a waiting period of 2 years. Therefore, Article 31 should be deleted. If necessary, you can keep Article 31 (1). No. 1 2 which gives Karens in connection with the fact that a researcher is known scientifically dishonest. It is then a supplementary punishment for the things that often come with when a researcher becomes known scientifically dishonest. One can discuss whether that is reasonable. But that is certainly an option. We would also like to mention that we think it is an improvement in section 33 that it says that in the case of a complaint you will have a right of appeal so that within four weeks you can appeal to the Minister. We also think that this is a positive change from the original draft. So we're all positive about this bill. It is, in many respects, a very good legislative proposal, and it has also been a good process for its creation. However, as I have said, we have a few proposals for possible changes which we believe will make it even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104928	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202104932	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It is good that we can so much agree on the positive aspects of the legislation. I just feel the urge to note something in relation to what the rapporteur said about the waiting period. After all, the Committee has had the opportunity to meet representatives from the two institutions on several occasions, and when it has nodded to experiment with this period, it is due to the fact that the applications were so extensive that commitments were being made to less than 10%. At the same time, the applications for the representatives' statements were of a very fluctuating nature; some excellent, others perhaps at a level where there was no need to consider them for long periods of time. When it is that an application has been sent which has been assessed as not suitable, and it has sometimes been done, both we and the institutions think it would make sense. Can the rapporteur not to some extent see the wisdom of having such a waiting period on the basis that I have just presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105033	Well, I understand the arguments. I understand that in one sense or another the intention is to limit the amount of cases to be dealt with and that it is like that which is aimed at it. However, we do not believe that this will give a fair legal position vis-à-vis the individual researcher in terms of being able to apply again because, on one occasion, a material has been handed over which some people judge to be of poor quality, then for two years they are not allowed to apply again. We do not think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105111	Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105113	That's well enough 10%. of those seeking funds. That means it's only the best. If you have written an application that is not good enough, then it is my opinion that you must then yes, excuse me, I say it gets together and then search again when you have something that is even better. In order to ensure that our funds and the peer reviews that are being made of these applications are extremely wide-ranging and, fortunately, they do so, so that everyone is guaranteed a fair legal status and treatment. Having said that, I also think it is worth mentioning that if we get the impression that it doesn't work, then there are people who are being prevented from realising good ideas. Well then we have to change it. And I would like to make that commitment, and the committee and the authors of the motion for a resolution have taken that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105158	However, if it is precisely the case that someone who makes a proposal is rejected and that the reason for the rejection is not that the proposal is too bad, but that the applicant is simply rejected, then there is a hope or presumption that he is improving or making more out of his application if he is looking again soon after. You have to assume that. However, we do not need a waiting period to make the applicant understand that we must, of course, make an effort with the proposals for which we are seeking support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105232	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105240	L 118 on the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council and the Danish Free Research Foundation are, to a large extent, as several have already mentioned, a draft law which has a more administrative character. I will not comment on these administrative improvements. But there are some substantive changes, two of which I would like to highlight. One is the introduction of a waiting period for applicants who more consistently have the habit of submitting weak proposals. Unlike Enhedslisten, I do not see this as a major problem. It is not an idea that was born here in Denmark; it is something that is also done elsewhere, and there it works quite well. Moreover, it is a simplification and a debureaucratisation, which is why I welcome it. The second change is that in the future, Denmark's free research fund can distribute funds for thematic research. I think that's just worth staying with. Thematic research is not as free as free research. Of course, this is not to be understood in the way that researchers carrying out thematic research do not have their full freedom of research, but the agenda for thematic research is set by others than the researchers themselves; it is typically set by politicians who think that this or that topic is exciting. After all, the basic principle of the free research fund is somewhat violated, and it was also one of the criticisms that the chair of the Research Council had and that was listened to. But let me just say from the platform that it is free research that is the basic principle. And I take the view that the Danish Free Research Fund is simply willing to make its very great competence available to assess applications, but that the basic principle is therefore maintained, namely that it is free research where the questions are put by the researchers themselves, which is the basics. I think that has been very well framed in the draft law as it has been put forward. So this is a very good and sensible legislative proposal, which we naturally support on the part of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105521	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105532	Thank you. I will focus on the same two elements as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur did, and I shall start by saying that the alternative, of course, supports this bill; it is primarily administrative in nature, it is some adjustments. Or at first I would like to say that let's just get a lot more of free research. I know that it is not here, but in a light that is cast on what it really is that we must support from our Parliament in Denmark. When we look at the research environments and research at all, we need massively more investment and many more resources for free research rather than strategic research. So it has to be a general wish. Now it's something else we're discussing here. In relation to the two elements, I would like to say that, in the alternative, we have no problem with the fact that it is in this new research fund. What will be important is what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, namely that the funds that will then be distributed are resources beyond the scope of free research. That is absolutely crucial, otherwise it will completely compromise the basic idea of the free research fund. But it is not just the funds, it is also the resources that will be used to allocate the funds. And it is important that we do not suddenly get a distortion of the work that is actually being done by the research fund that it is still free research, which one might say is the foundation of that work. So if funds are to be allocated for thematic research, we must also find the money for the very work involved in distributing funds. That was one thing. We do not have any major problems with that part of it. As far as the waiting period is concerned, it is of course interesting, because we have no problem with the fact that there is a waiting period. Somewhere it's okay to say to the person who is submitting a really bad application: Listen, buddy, you'll have to pull yourself together next time and maybe spend a little more time on it and get a little more into it and be a little more thorough! It's okay to send that signal. But then I also wish when you do it and I would say that it is not because we are against it that at the same time it was said that on top of the hat for the excellent research applications follows a small turban with the words: Now you actually get 3 years, 5 years of free research funding that you can use completely, as you want it to say to the researcher • because you have shown that you can actually find out how to submit an excellent research application because you are actually one of the excellent researchers that we want to keep in Denmark. Because what is happening today is that the talented researchers are going abroad because they have to fight so exceptionally hard on the funds, despite being super-recognized throughout the world. I know that this is not the case for us to see an amendment on it, so don't worry. But it's more in that perspective. And then I think that when we talk about the Karen period, that's fine, but let's just remember how we can also recognise those who carry out the excellent research. That was a few perspectives from here, but we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105856	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202105904	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we also support the bill. It is, of course, an agreement reached by my predecessor in the rapporteur's office, and it is quite an excellent agreement. Sometimes I wish we could split things up. I think people can get a little confused about this because it is a global bill that is both about the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council, for which we do not really change the framework, and so what is the real change here, namely the changed framework for the Danish Free Research Fund. It's not that I think people are running around out there and preoccupied with it, but it's actually two different things. Compared to the new name, I think it is an excellent name that refers more to the other research funds and therefore makes a little more sense. We're really happy about that. With regard to what the Alternative's rapporteur also mentioned, namely the thematic research which the Foundation is now being given the opportunity to carry out, if the Danish Parliament so wishes, it is very important that funds should then be taken into account; free research in Denmark is already under heavy pressure, and it should not go beyond the limited resources available for it. But it is also my impression that it is in the agreement. Personally, I am very pleased that it is now the Board of Directors of the Research Fund which appoints the members and chairmen of the underlying committees, and not as before the Minister. It was a strange formality and a crooked form of interference, so we welcome that in the Radical Left. On the part of the Radical Left, there is general support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110120	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110129	On the conservative side, we have no further comments on the draft law so that we can support the further examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110138	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110154	Thank you for the fine debate. The purpose of the bill is to establish a new unified and structured regulation of the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council and the Danish Free Research Foundation. The bill is based on a political agreement of 13 October on the framework for the Danish Free Research Foundation between the conciliation parties behind the research council system. The draft law must be seen in conjunction with proposals for a law on scientific infidelity that we discussed before. Together, the two proposals will replace the Research Advisory Act which regulates the situation today. In its content, the proposal extends the framework of the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council. The Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council will continue to aim to promote the development of Danish research, technology development and innovation for the benefit of society. The Council will provide independent and expert advice on research, technology development and innovation, and the framework for the Council will be largely renewed. The Free Research Council, which will be called the Danish Free Research Foundation, must therefore continue to aim to strengthen the quality of Danish research by providing grants for concrete research activities based on the researchers' own initiatives. As in the past, the Foundation also has the task of advising on research. In addition to the new name, an extended possibility is proposed to translate funds for thematic research through special appropriations and, in addition, there will be the possibility of establishing a waiting period for applicants as well as the competence of the Management Board of the Fund to appoint members and chairmen of the underlying committees. Against this background, I thank you for your comments and I look forward to the further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110346	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110402	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. He seems to be absent, and then it must be Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110431	Thank you. It's not like that when we're all busy going through things around the house. This bill is, after all, the implementation of the agreement we in the Danish People's Party have made with the then government, the Left Government, together with the Conservative and Social Democracy on a better balance for Denmark. This is so, what can you say, the natural part of it, where we have seen on the beach protection line and other lines there are so many in Denmark that we cannot soon list them up and where we look at how it should be easier for citizens living within this 300-metre zone on the coasts, the beach protection line, so that the citizens actually have the opportunity to have a life like everyone else in Denmark. And when I say that, it should be understood that, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. is allowed to make a sandbox for his children, make a swing stand, make a high bed. We have all read about all these very mysterious stories around Denmark, where there is simply one, what can be said, lack of freedom in living within the beach protection line. This is not an opportunity for the coasts to be plastered, I would hurry to say, and when I say it, it is because it has been a great deal, I think, of the resistance that has been heard, so that we should almost go in and make such a Costa del West Coast with regard to tourism companies. But in this agreement there is a good balance in terms of allowing tourism companies to develop. And that means that there are hotels that are currently located by the water, but now have the opportunity to make a petanque track for their guests, to make an outdoor hot tub or whatever it may be something that can promote tourism and something that tourists have also asked for, and I think that is quite excellent. It also allows, as I said, landowners to make sandboxes, terraces and so on. at 10-15 meters away from their settlement, and it's also really positive. It also allows existing ports to build and build buildings for clubs, associations and thus also for tourism purposes, and this is also positive. I would like to say that the whole agreement is, of course, an expression of a compromise. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to see further progress made. We think it should be the case that when you have a ground within the beach protection line, there should also be the possibility of using all your land and also making a sandbox in the far corner, for example. We think that could have been quite excellent. We also think it would have been very good if, in relation to the beach protection line, we had the opportunity to cultivate our land with what we want to cultivate. It is the case today that if you have farmland within the beach protection line, you must grow maize and cereals and everything, but you must not grow Christmas trees for inscrutable reasons. And it's still incomprehensible to me, and more people have laughed that I've been very concerned about Christmas trees, but that's the way it is. I think that when you make laws and rules, they should be logical and reasonable, and I have not yet been able to find a reason why you should not grow Christmas trees, but there are probably others who can tell me that. Basically, it's a good deal we've made. In the Danish People's Party, we would have liked to have seen a little bit further and given a little more freedom, but it may be that it comes in time. We are in any case pleased with the agreement, which we hope will open up more tourism in the outermost regions and provide opportunities where we always talk about development. So we are very pleased that the proposal is now being dealt with first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110853	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202110857	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether Mrs Pia Adelsteen does not agree with me that nature on the coasts is one of the most valuable and unique and unspoiled that we have left in Denmark. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is already possible to plant in an existing garden, as has already been stated in the legislative notes. There is virtually always a derogation for smaller plants in legally established gardens. Now we're talking about sandboxes, there's been a lot of talk about apple trees, and you're automatically allowed to do that. And as the law is today, mostly outdoor activities are dispensed: paths, shelters and other things. I think we should be very careful, and what I really think is a pity is that myths and stories have been allowed to fill extremely much. After all, there are people who have a reason that goes all the way down to the beach. If you are allowed to place rocking stands and apple trees and sandboxes all over your property, we risk that the people who want to experience nature will zigzag around between rocking stands and apple trees because you would place it there and not close to your house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111015-2	Well, I just think that the interpretation that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding makes is to create myths. I really have to admit that. I think it is unnecessary bureaucracy for people to apply for exemption to have a sandbox in their own garden. I am well aware that there are reasons that actually go down to the edge of the water, because that will be the case, but we have never ever talked about the agreement we have discussed, that we should let people build down on the beach. That is not the intention at all. But it must be fair that, when you have a reason, you are allowed to set up a swing rack and to make a sandbox for your children. I really think that is actually fair, given that you also pay for the land. I think that the picture that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is painting is about something that will never happen because, by the way, you can regulate it with local plans, and that is what the municipalities are doing. They say: if we have a summer house area we want to look in a certain way, then we regulate it via local plans. And there the citizens of the area have the opportunity to go in and influence it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111120	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111121	After all, I am merely referring to what is already in the legislative notes, in relation to what can be done today. We must dig into the committee work, whether the Danish People's Party rapporteur can guarantee or be absolutely sure that this bill does not happen, that we risk having rocking racks and sandboxes and all sorts of things spread across the beach protection line, which is of course not a random line, but which has been there since the 1930s to ensure that all people who want to walk along the beach should be able to experience an unspoiled nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111202	I'm not nervous at all. Most people who buy a cottage or a residence near water actually want to be near nature, near the water. This has nothing to do with the open beaches, I don't think so. To set up a bench within this 300-metre line near lakes, fjords, etc., so that people can sit down and enjoy their lunch and enjoy nature when they're out for a ride, I think you should be allowed to. In fact, I think you should also be allowed to put a bench in your own garden, but you cannot do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111242	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Practice is that if you're late, you're late. But when it was straight to the beer, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen allowed to come up second now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111257	Thank you very much to the chairman for her kindness. I am sorry that, due to the consultation, I was late. In 1937 the Danish Parliament adopted the first Nature Conservation Act, which ensured a 100 m protection line on the coast. The aim was to ensure against construction and to ensure access to the beach for all citizens, or as Prime Minister Thorvald Stauning put it in his closing speech: we are in one of the last hours in this matter if we want to save values that are in danger. Nature's salvation for the people means access to sources of beauty and health, and the Reichstag, which now possibly saves these great natural values from destruction, will earn from all landowners by at the same time preventing the sale of foolish narrow-mindedness to the detriment of descendants. In 1994, beach protection under the then Environment Minister Svend Auken in large parts of the country was extended from the original 100 m to 300 m. It is therefore unnecessary to point out that the issue of beach protection, coastal protection, is the heartblood of social democracy. The bill we are dealing with today translates the draft law agreement on Denmark into a better balance, which the Social Democracy entered into with the then Left Government, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. It is no secret that the initiative of the then narrow Left Government contained far-reaching plans for our most precious nature, the open beaches in which my party could not see ourselves. I am therefore pleased that the negotiations succeeded in preventing the granting of permission to build hotels along our coasts, placing hundreds of beach chairs and a mess of other disgusting things on our beaches. The agreement shows why, with Hans Hansen's words, it makes sense always to be more concerned with results than resolutions, because it was in the negotiations that we achieved the results that now make a difference to some of the most precious nature that we have, namely our open beaches. I really think that the draft law has ensured a good balance between use and protection. It is a compromise, but I am satisfied with what we have achieved in the agreement on a better balance for Denmark. The bill opens up the possibility of port buildings which are no longer used being designed and put into service to support tourism, association and other activities in the ports. In addition, more relaxed rules are introduced as to what municipalities are allowed to do between city and port, and it will be possible to establish bathing ramps for people with disabilities in our ports. I think that is a good thing. The proposal thus contributes to increased activity in our ports and thereby to increased activity and growth in our local communities, often local communities in the more sparsely populated rural areas. The draft law also allows landowners with land within the beach protection line to establish smaller facilities such as high beds and play equipment, and provides for exemptions for outhouses and greenhouses up to 10 m2 The derogation depends, however, on the fact that the applied for does not significantly affect the coastal landscape on the site and that the area is not protected. With the proposal, we also relax the rules on the beach protection line, so that clubs, associations, volunteers and institutions will be better able to establish, for example, changing facilities, sheds for storing sea kayaks or fishing equipment, bonfire cabins, lunch cabins or shelters, if this happens in connection with existing beach facilities, such as a detour to the beach or a parking lot. At the same time, it is a requirement that the activities to be supported by the facilities opened up have a strong connection with the water, and it is also a requirement that the facilities be placed as withdrawn as possible, so that the large open coastlines are always maintained as far as possible, and that the facilities are described in a local plan so that they fall as far as possible into the nature and landscape of the site. The new possibilities provide a better framework for outdoor life; they strengthen our wide-ranging association life and encourage more people to enter the wild. This is positive for our association life, for our lives in local communities, but it is of course also positive for health, as Stauning also mentioned. The proposal as it stands strikes a good balance between the protection of the open coasts and the ability of local communities to unfold in nature. There is a good balance, I think, between the opportunities offered by the tourist industry and the protection of nature. It is important for business and tourism to have good opportunities and a framework, but it is also important to remember that it is precisely the unspoiled nature and our open coasts which in these municipalities close to the water have the greatest attraction to tourists. With those words, I can say that the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111811	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. It's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111816	Thank you. I would like to start by signing off on the fact that the Social Democratic Party, with the political agreement that was reached, helped prevent what was the government's plan, namely to open up more construction on the coasts. There's something I'm a little worried about. This is the whole thing about abolishing the beach protection line between town and port. Has the Social Democratic rapporteur • The Social Democratic Party is part of this agreement • Any idea of what area will be involved? So, how much coastline will be no longer protected by a beach protection line when you introduce it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111851	That would be quite a limited area. I don't have the exact number. I'm sure we can dig that up, perhaps during committee reading. However, it is also important to say that what we are opening up to is that, in the context of the possibility of some other things between the city and the port, we have to discuss and set out in a future guide on which the parties to the agreement will, of course, have an influence. So, of course, we will also follow the opportunity and the relaxation of the work that lies ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111923	Another thing that I find a little worrying is that you open up clubs and others to build right down on the beach. Is this not a concern shared by the Social Democratic Party, or have I misunderstood what is in the draft law? And does the Social Democratic Party believe that this is really necessary, even when we see in the observations of the bill that, as the law is actually applied today, there is virtually always a derogation, or at least very, very often, for paths, shelters, parking spaces and all the things that have been spoken for a great need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202111959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112000	That's two questions. In fact, I believe that there is a need for association to have some support points for their activities in the country. But I am very, very aware that we must do our utmost to free the open shores. That is also why the comments on the draft law state very clearly that, if these facilities are opened up, they are placed as withdrawn as possible, so that, as a starting point, the open coasts are freed. So we are very aware of that issue and I also think that this issue is balanced in the comments on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112037	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112039	Thank you. I simply have to ask because the rapporteur said that it was no secret that it was the Social Democratic Party that took the proposal in a different direction from the wider proposal made by the government: where did it go? The rapporteur himself mentioned that there could be hundreds of sun loungers on the beach. I've never read that in a proposal, so I'm just asking. Because if something just helped to make myth formations, then it was for example. a petition from the Danish Nature Conservation Association against the fact that there would now be beach construction along the entire West Coast in large measure • something that really bothered me and which I thought was unreligious. So I have to ask the rapporteur: where was the proposal going?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112127	I am very pleased that in those negotiations we maintained that there must be a beach protection line and there must be a coastal proximity zone. This is, of course, absolutely essential in order to ensure development in these areas while maintaining that the open beaches must be free and accessible. One of the things we were afraid of, in the original scenario, was that the opportunity to build hotels, for example, would be opened up very close to our beaches. There were also proposals that would open up the possibility for the tourist industry to expand its activity within the beach protection line. That is where we could draw the agreement in a more sensible direction. I am, in fact, glad that we had that debate, because I think we have achieved a very positive result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112214	Yes, but I still wonder, because in the proposal presented by the then government there was no mention of the removal of the coastline or beach protection line. That was not part of the proposal. So what was going on? It was not said: now the beach protection line must be removed and now everything must be given free. It was never ever part of the proposal. That is also why I am surprised that the rapporteur says that there could then be an opportunity to build hotels along the beaches. That has never been proposed. I know that's what the story was. I'm on it, but it's never been in the wider proposal that the rapporteur thinks it was. So I just ask again: what was going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112257	It was, of course, in the narrow Left Government's proposal that there would be more relaxation than what we have achieved, for example for the tourist industry within the beach protection line. It is one of the specific places where I am glad that we have ended up with what I think is a better balance. In fact, I think that the agreement strikes a good balance by keeping our beaches open. I think it is also for the good of the tourist industry that we are doing it, because it is this wild, unspoiled nature that a lot of people come to see. So, without ripping up further in the old discussion, I would just like to say that I am actually pleased with the agreement that lies in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112331	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112333	Thank you. Well, we know that we know about these. 7,000 km of coastline in Denmark, and we have the beach protection line of 300 metres, and there has never been a proposal on the table to abolish beach protection, not at all. Nor have there ever been any proposals to start plastering everything with concrete, although the Socialist rapporteur obviously needs to inflate himself to say that, as it were, we should have saved a situation that has never been there. I think that is a great pity for the way this matter is dealt with. It is a good thing that we are more parties in the government, and it is also good that the Social Democracy is involved, but let us try to get it down where the discussion belongs. It is now a question of allowing for a number of things that were not possible in the past. That is also what has been said in the debate. Now there is only very short speaking time, but I would say that I think it is a pity for the debate that it should be done in this way: that a rapporteur needs to breathe unnecessarily into saving something that has not been in danger at all. Can the rapporteur just confirm that if we take one thing, about the hotels, that there are ten specific projects that have been authorised, and then there has been a discussion on some further ones? It's not like you're patching it all up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112445	Now, naturally, I have a size which means that I do not need to inflate myself, and I do not think I have done that from the platform today either. I have just said that there were some disagreements between the Social Democratic Party and the then government about how much construction should be allowed and what should be allowed to tourist companies within the beach protection line. I just notice in all tranquillity that we saw things differently. I am pleased that, in a long period of negotiations and sometimes a difficult course of negotiations, we have been able to reach an agreement like that today, which I really think is a good balance in terms of a good balance between opening up and making some things less bureaucratic and, on the other hand, still maintaining that the coasts belong to everyone, so there must be good access and we must keep the open coasts free. It is also in the interests of local communities. I have lived and worked in Varde Municipality myself, and one of the reasons why Varde Municipality is the largest tourist municipality outside the capital is precisely all the Germans and Europeans from all the countries of Europe who come there to experience the wild nature, the unspoilt nature. It's just the nature type that we've wanted to preserve and protect. And I really think that in this proposal we have a good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112557	Well, I think all politicians will take good care of our nature and our shores. I have not heard a single politician from any party would go in and start smashing it. There have been some nuance differences as to how far one would go. And just to take one of them, I'd like to say that I think it's very awkward when we talk about being allowed to make a café in existing buildings and then make a small extension of them that you couldn't get through with giving permission to, for example. to make a small café in existing, current buildings out there, close by, just standing there. These are the nuance differences that exist. One might then ask why the Social Democrats will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112638	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112639	Well, it is true that we have looked differently at where the cut should be, compared to how relaxed we want the tourist industry to be regulated in these very vulnerable areas. And I think that in the agreement we have found a very good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112656	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112658	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand from the rapporteur that there is a connection with the municipality of Varde in West Jutland in this context. I myself am of West Jutland descent, and therefore there are some of the words that the rapporteur uses in his speech which do not seem so natural to me, and I think that the self-heroic description of the social democracy's rescue of the Danish coasts may be a little exaggerated when we consider the relatively unambitious proposal put forward by the then narrow one-party-left government. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it could not be imagined that, in this context, local authorities could administer these rules locally, and whether the Social Democratic Party really does not feel that the political system in the municipalities is capable of fulfilling the task of administering these rules locally so that there should be no state overindulgence in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112804-2	Thank you. I am a little sorry that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur calls the government partners unambitious, but that is a contradiction in which I do not think it is for me to interfere. It must be taken across the parties at any government seminar or other. It is clear that the municipalities have a role to play here. I also touched on this in my rapporteur's speech, where I said that the municipalities, for example, if the facilities within the beach protection line are to be authorised, must draw up a local plan. I think that makes sense, so that we get the municipalities into this area. However, I maintain that I believe there is a need for some fairly strict rules at national level as to what we as a nation want with our most precious nature, namely our coasts. And the strict rules we maintain in this bill, and I think that makes sense, although I would also like to reiterate that I think that in this bill there is a very good balance between the need to take care of our nature and the need to provide some opportunities for development in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112909	Tight state rules, yes, I understand Social Democracy is in favour of that, and that is also what I see in other contexts. After all, we're talking about well over 2,000 or perhaps 2,500 km 2 It's certainly not something that the Liberal Alliance thinks is a good idea. Would the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party perhaps agree with me that these very strict state rules actually hinder growth and development in the areas in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202112941-2	No, I cannot agree with the rapporteur. For it is actually my experience, after close to a lifetime to have lived in exactly Varde Municipality and also after working in Varde Municipality, even in the technical field exactly with this question, that one of the most important assets for the profession in Varde and one of the most important assets for the tourist industry in our coastal municipalities is precisely our unspoiled nature. That is why I believe that we are actually doing the profession a favour when we say very clearly here in Parliament that we want to safeguard this nature type.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113021	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113024	When one hears the rapporteur's statement that one is of course locally aware of the value of unspoiled nature, one may well wonder why one could not have given out a little more competence to the municipalities, that is, when the rapporteur himself describes that the municipalities are of course concerned with the same thing as the rest of us, namely to ensure that we take good care of Denmark. But then we could not get that far in the debate. What I really just want to ask is whether the rapporteur will not admit that the rhetoric just got what it could draw from the rapporteur's speech, as did Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Can we not just make it clear once and for all that the proposal made by the Left Government was not a proposal to offer concrete construction on the water edge of the Danish beaches?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113117	I really believe that in my rapporteur's speech I also struck the rhetorical level quite well. I think it was appropriate to refer Thorvald Stauning, who stands for the beach protection line. I think it was appropriate to mention Svend Auken, who expanded it. I also think it was appropriate to refer to Hans Hansen's words that we are more concerned about results than resolutions. Because the deal we've landed here is good, it's really good. We ensure a balance between the need to have strict rules on what must be done on our very valuable coasts, while at the same time giving freedom of movement to associations, tour operators and the like who want to unfold in this nature type of thing that we love so much. So I think that when we talk about beach protection, it is appropriate also to pull out the big socialist coryphos. This is really social democratic heart blood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113213	Yes, peace be with it, and that is not what my objection was about. My objection was that the Social Democratic Party uses the same rhetoric that the Danish Nature Conservation Association used and says that the initiative put forward by the Left Government opened up concrete construction along the Danish coasts. So there is no evidence of that. Of course, in the rhetorical tightening up one might put a little too many words on one's rapporteur's speech, but I just think it would be fair for the debate to make it clear once again on the part of the Social Democrats that the Left Government did not have the proposal that the rapporteur referred to in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113257	After all, my rapporteur's speech remained within the time limit on the floor of this Parliament, so the saying that there were too many words is simply wrong. What I want to insist on is that there were steps in the Left's proposal to open up further hotel construction in and on our coasts, and we simply did not agree with that. There were proposals that would relax further than what we have done here in relation to the tourist industry. We did not agree with that, and that is why I am pleased that we are more concerned about results than resolutions and went to the negotiating table and got the country a very good balance and a good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113334	We thank the rapporteur and I understand that, in agreement with the rapporteur, I can now give the floor to Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113348	Thank you very much. Yes, it is a day when things have gone very fast in the Chamber, so thank you for having to come on now. It has, of course, been a long process with the proposal for a planning law that has now finally reached the Danish Parliament, and there is both part of what is in the Ministry of the Environment and part of what is in the Ministry of Industry, and today we are dealing with the part which has to do with the nature of the Minister for the Environment and Food. If we look at the process we have been through, which, of course, has been that the Left, while they were outside the government, actually wanted the beach protection zone to go only to the nearest road and only in coherent areas and nature, which is very far-reaching, then we now have a proposal today which, in a whole range of areas, is actually reasonable, but which is very far from what the Left wanted. And I am almost touched when I hear the debate today, when the Left is out in a bloody defense of the beach protection line. It is certainly something, no matter which rapporteur has said what, that pleases my heart, that we ourselves are now fighting for the Danish beaches not to be built, because they are a very special part of Denmark's nature and a very special part of our identity. Having free and open beaches and coasts is something that belongs to Danishity and Danish nationality and identity in a way that we must safeguard very much. To talk about the specific proposal before us, I would like to say that there are a few very good things. I also think, as a former Minister for the Environment, that it was a rather strange practice to apply for a derogation and then to get it in 99%. of cases. There we think it is sensible to go out and say clearly what should not be exempted for, because making such a practice is simply holding all people in a big bureaucratic hell. So we think it makes sense to build a bed, a swing stand or, for that matter, a bench. We also think it is very good that open-air associations and others can build shelters, benches and other sensible things which, of course, must be thought into the landscape and are not large construction. Then we have a few obs-points that we will ask about in the legislative process, among others. the fact that tourism companies must be allowed to build buildings and installations which do not follow on from existing buildings by means of a notice, and there are a few concerns. One is that it is a very wide power to give to a minister and a circle of agreement and that it will be like: do we like it or not? You take it away from the citizens and from a real practice where they can be heard and where there are neighbouring objections and other things, and make it a kind of political assessment in a conciliation circle in here. And then we have to say that it's important how that circle of agreements is going to deal with these things. So, of course, that's something we're going to ask more about how you've been thinking and whether there are any guidelines for any of this. In addition, we would like to say that we want to abolish the beach protection zone between the city and the port, that it is at least important for us to have an overview of what Mrs Reumert Gjerding also asked the Social Democrat rapporteur about, i.e. whether we know how much this is about. We would think it would be very nice to know whether it is primarily in some places where it makes perfect sense. If it is the small stretches where you almost have a kind of coherent urban growth, where there is a small piece of beach protection that might make a city project impossible, then we think it makes sense. But we need to have an overview of what we might want to do, so we will try to ask about that in the committee process. For the Radical Left, it is extremely important that we look after our beaches. We think it's a happiness that Denmark has had this law for all these years. We are delighted to see that the Left is now out in a bloody defence of the beach protection line, and we think it is a great victory that there is something we are so united about here. We welcome the small improvements for ordinary people who want to build a swing stand, and then we have these obs-points that we want to dig into the law work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113758	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113759	Thank you. I will try to take it a little slowly; there is no need to get upset as much as we did before. This is not so much needed because the radical rapporteur does not quite go up in the same unrealistic gear. I would just like to say briefly: there has never ever been a proposal from the Left either to lift the beach protection line. So let's just put it in place for the first round here. The rapporteur said that the Left would only want it to the nearest road, as if it were just a metre from the beachside. Can't we just get it out of the world? Otherwise, the rapporteur simply has to provide proof of where it stands. It never said that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113838	Then I would recommend Mr. Erling Bonnesen to google the Left's proposal from February 2015, where Mr. Thomas Danielsen clearly states that the beach protection zone should only go to the nearest road and in coherent natural areas. The left is a big party too big for my tastes too, but you have to know about what your party colleagues say, and I can say that it was the policy of the Left, at least according to your website. You could also consider removing it when you have now become a big and warm supporter of the beach protection line and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113906	With all due respect for what individual party colleagues have of good ideas and record when making a presentation, I would like to say that, as rapporteur for the Left in this area, I can only state that it has never been the policy of the Left that the beach line of 300 metres should be abolished. It has been 300 metres, it has continued to be 300 metres, and it will continue to be in the future. That is the policy of the Left in this area. Where there may be some nuance differences, for example, is when you are. Just talking about such a little cozy thing as a café. At the moment, you can have an existing café within the beach protection line. Fortunately, then, we have agreed that if there is a need to make a small extension of the existing café, then one can be allowed to do so. But isn't it a little strange that you can't make a new café in some already existing buildings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202113949	So now I'm confused at a higher level. So, does that mean that we should not take things on the Left's website seriously? Is this simply something we can no longer count on? Can we not count on it when the rapporteur of the Left says that the Left's proposal is that the beach protection zone should only lie in contiguous areas and go to the nearest road? Should we no longer trust that what people in a party say, and what you can read on the website, is right? At any rate, this is new and, of course, I think it is problematic, but I again welcome the fact that the Left has changed its position or, at least, has become a clear supporter of the beach protection line.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114023	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114024	Something that I would like to ask the rapporteur about in connection with this whole proposal, and some of what I have been wondering about in relation to the resistance that has been, is that we come in here almost every single weekday to Copenhagen and see a huge development at Tuborg Harbour, where we are built right down to the water. I think we can agree on that; in here in Copenhagen we are building almost on the water. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur where the limit goes. I am not saying that all cities should be like Copenhagen, but we have some outlying areas where there are small tourist towns, where there are already hotels that are very keen to expand or develop and which today simply do not have the opportunity. And that is one of the things we are trying to change. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur: where does the limit go in relation to that of the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114123	As I said, there are parts of this proposal that we think are sensible, i.e. for example. that people who have a home located within a beach protection line can do small things such as: a bed or a swing stand or something. But you also have to take account of the neighbours, and it may be that we think it is super bad for a hotel business that it cannot just build into the beach and the coast because it is within the beach protection line, but there are also very many neighbours, and there are very many people living in these rural areas and on these coasts who have chosen it precisely because there is not a large hotel. So where's the limit? Yes, it goes where the neighbours are also taken into account and where we really have our coasts protected and where we do not send the municipalities into a race against each other, which is quite unhealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114209	But that answer worries me a little, because that means that it is in here from Christiansborg that we must steer a development out in the small towns. Well, I have examples from Lønstrup in North Jutland, and I have an example from Liseleje, where there is a small ice house in the parking lot, and they actually want to make a handicap toilet. I think that could be very nice for disabled people, but that is not what we should be doing today. Well, that's sometimes the kind of stuff we talk about. And we are talking about the fact that if there is no development, tourists will no longer want to come. Even though they are very fond of nature, they would like to see some new things happen, and so are the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114250	Then the rapporteur is not listening. Well, of course you have to be able to build such a handicap toilet if it looks reasonable and lies so that it doesn't bother me that I think everyone has an interest in it. What we are concerned with is whether we should have large new tourist buildings on the coasts and beaches that are part of Denmark's identity, and whether we are constantly giving more and more freedom as a country. That is what we are used to as politicians, so to say: what kind of country do we want? On the radical side, we would like to go in and look again at the entire law of plans. We would like to go in and discuss: Where is the responsibility of the municipalities? Where can we actually give the municipalities more freedom, for example, from them? should define for themselves what is important to them and what kind of coastline they think is absolutely priceless and which they do not want to mess with? And then it may be that we should give some more freedom to the municipalities in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114336	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall return to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114346	Thank you. The beach protection line is 300 metres. Left has always wanted to take good care of our shores. We have never had a proposal to start patching it all up with concrete construction, even though there have been myths that have been lying around, but I hope that we have now been put to death again. Today we can deal first with this draft law on amending the Nature Conservation Act and thus amending the rules on the beach protection line, etc. The bill is linked to our desire in the Left to create a Denmark in better balance, a Denmark with growth and development, where nature and the environment are also taken into account. With this bill, we ensure greater transparency in the rules and less bureaucracy for citizens and authorities. That is what is needed, because the area has been a jungle of rules, you might almost say. But not only do we simplify the rules; we also adjust to give more freedom to clubs, associations, institutions, tourism companies and ordinary citizens. We allow greater freedom for smaller installations and buildings to be established within the dune protection and protection lines, as well as within the sea and river protection lines, and freedom to expand on locally planned port areas and to make use of redundant buildings. This allows the municipalities to plan better. With this bill, we are removing the requirement for exemption for smaller measures. It should not be necessary for the Danes to ask the municipality for permission before, for example, building a terrace in connection with their house. We are also opening up to grant exemptions in a number of cases where this was not possible in the past. We thus remove a number of barriers. This is good news for the whole of Denmark, which is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114541	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114546	Now it is not to upset the rapporteur unnecessarily that I am asking this question, but will the rapporteur not confirm that it has been the proposal of the Left that more experimental projects should be opened up within the beach protection line, that is. More construction. That is what people protested against. And it may well be that you think it is unfair, but that is what was the proposal, and that is what people did not want to start opening up to. Would the rapporteur not also confirm that it has been in the rural areas of the Left that the protection zone should apply only to coherent nature and only to the nearest house or road and that the coastal proximity zone would be completely abolished? Just so we get in place what has really been in the policy of the Left and so it becomes clear what we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114636	It has never been the policy of the Left to patch it all up with concrete constructions on the beach, which one would like to draw a picture of and create myths about it I can completely reject it. It is quite true, then, that ten specific projects have been and are under way, which have been dealt with on the second occasion, and there has been our assessment in the Left that out of 10 000 km of coastline there was also room for development in ten specific places. Then there has been a debate on whether or not it could be a few more. For the time being, there is no decision on this, but it is not the same as applying concrete to plasters. So I can stand up for the fact that we are behind a decision on the ten specific projects; and if we can get a few more, then we are also ready to be behind it. But that's not the same as patching it all up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114729	In other words, the reason why the experimental system was not extended was, among other things, that there was no majority in favour of it, but it was in the Left's proposal. There was nothing in my question about patching anything at all and I didn't ask about concrete. I asked specifically: would the rapporteur not confirm that it was originally in the Left's proposal that the nature protection zone should apply only to the nearest house or road, that it should apply only to coherent nature, that the coastal proximity zone would be completely abolished and that more construction would be opened up in several coastal projects? Will the rapporteur not just confirm this? We don't have to talk about concrete anymore. Will the rapporteur not just confirm what I am asking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114806	Well, I'm glad the myths aren't supposed to go on anymore, that we're gonna patch it all up with concrete, then it's swept off the table. Then it is quite correct that there has been a debate on the 300-metre beach protection line, but there are cases out there where it is that part of it has already been built. At the moment there is a beach protection that also goes into construction. Well, you could say, well, it does. And that could then be discussed, i.e. whether it should still include that building. I'm not assuming that Enhedslisten imagines that we were about to take down the building that lies there. But it is, if I may say so, fine mechanics in the discussion that has been going on. We can just establish that the beach protection line is 300 metres.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114848	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114849	Well, there's been a little confusion here, but now I'm gonna help sir. Erling Bonnesen by reading from the Left's website, where it says that it is suggested that the beach protection line should only apply where there is a coherent nature - i.e.. only until e.g. existing buildings or public roads. We can now understand that is a clear mistake, so I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: should it be off the Left's website, since the Left has just become a big and warm supporter of the beach protection line?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114917	We could start by looking at the facts. We have established that there is a beach protection line of 300 metres. I do not think anyone is in doubt about that, and I have said so many times. If you then go out and look from the water edge and 300 m in, there are many places where there is no construction. But there are also many places where you can encounter some construction. And then it is fair to have had a discussion about whether in practice it should be adjusted so that, so to speak, it fits in with the facts. This is the discussion we have had in the Left, and I think that is a good thing we have had. But I'm just on the goal that we have a beach protection line called 300 m.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202114954-2	I'd like to help the Left with a little clear communication. I put a simple question to the rapporteur when I asked whether it should then be removed from the Left's website that it should be proposed that the beach protection line should only apply where there is a coherent nature, that is to say only into existing buildings or public roads, once you have gone away from it after having had this discussion with yourself? Would it not be good, as for the public, that the Left does not have a lot of things on its website that one might think was their policy when one no longer means it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115024-2	I am comfortable with the fact that we have had completely free and open communication with those who have wanted to debate with us in the Left. We have had a number of things, including on our website, which could be debated, and now we are at the end of the road. After all, all parties update their websites, and it is clear that the Left is, of course, the target of the decisions we will eventually have taken here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115051	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115113	Thank you. As we have already mentioned in the debate so far, it was originally the intention of the Left Government to open up more construction in the open, free Danish coastal nature. It was the government's proposal that there should be more pilot projects within the beach protection line, just as it was in the rural area of the Left that the coastal proximity zone would be abolished and the beach protection line would be moved to the nearest house or public road. More than hundreds of thousands of Danes participated in a petition against the element that was about several experimental projects within the beach protection line. Thousands of people ringed the Danish coasts with torches and fires, and the message from the population was quite clear: the coasts are one of the most valuable things we have, and there should not be built in the last free nature we have in Denmark. It's one of the most unspoiled that's left. Here from the Folketing there was actually listened, at least to a certain extent. There was no support for the government's plans, and I think it is appropriate to sign both the Social Democracy and the Conservatives, who were determined to preserve the beach protection line, which protects against water-side construction and 300 metres inland, and thus refused to open up more experimental construction. Today, then, we are dealing with the legislative proposal that has to translate part of the political agreement, and although I would like to emphasise that the worst disasters have clearly been prevented, we still believe that the draft law is a step in the wrong direction because, in a number of areas, the protection of our invaluable coastal nature is being reduced and reduced. The bill opens up more building from the home or company than today, for real local planning on the beaches and for the abolition of protection on selected routes. We are concerned that the draft law proposes that it should be much easier to build on the beaches, especially along the west coast of Jutland, and down to the shores of the beach. I would like to be quite honest and say that when I read this bill, I think it is a little unclear how the rules will exactly be implemented. We need to get more light on this in the legislative process if the Minister for the Environment is not able to explain it more precisely when he goes to the platform later. However, this is partly due to the fact that the specific rules, which the Social Democratic Party also mentioned, must be translated into later announcements. However, I think that when we deal with a bill in the Folketing, it is quite important that we have the opportunity to see through what it can actually mean for the nature that I think many of us are very concerned about protecting. For example: I have not been able to find a concrete figure on the size of the area involved in abolishing the beach protection line between town and port, just as I think it is unclear exactly where we can expect more settlement and to what extent. For us, the Danish coasts and habitat types that exist along the coasts, whether dunes, dunes or lows, are in an international context one of the most valuable nature we have in Denmark. And I would like to emphasise this, just as I think it is so important to remember the background to the beach protection line. It goes all the way back to the 1930s, where you saw how construction spread down the beach, so that it reduced the ability of the broad population to experience a rich and unspoiled nature and to walk along the beach, along the coast, and just let the gaze slide into the horizon without having to look into a shed or toilet or all sorts of other things. That is what is behind it, and I still believe that today there is a need to stick to it, so that what we are protecting is the interests of the community and the general public. And then it is true that one then limits the opportunity for the few to think about the opportunity for the many. In the Enhedslisten we cannot vote for the proposal in its present form, but we need to ask a lot of questions about it. We also need, I think, to table a number of amendments, because we believe that a better balance can be struck between those things and so disability toilets in ice-cream, etc., without giving as much relief as this bill gives. I also think it is important to say that when you delve into the comments of the bill, you have to bear in mind that in a great many, in the vast majority of cases we have discussed, such as apple trees in a garden, a sandbox or a bed, it has been authorised if you have a legal garden. So we should also be careful not to make this problem bigger than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115651	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115653	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that, as we get to the point in the debate, we are making it clear that nobody wants to patch it all up with concrete out there in the beach protection line and that we need to take good care of it. And when we get closer and closer to it, it's also because Enhedslisten's rapporteur, in order to try to keep this mysterious picture, has to take as an example these ten concrete experimental projects. They are, in fact, firmly established and we are entirely in favour of them. But we are approaching something that could be called hypocrisy, because what really started this with the ten concrete experimental projects? It was that there was a Social Democratic led government backed by exactly the Enhedslisten, which, in the light of pressure from us in the Left, we had to initiate investigations to arrive at a decision which would lead us to have these ten concrete projects. The Enhedslisten has helped to set this thing in motion, so it is pure hypocrisy now that we are criticising it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115750-2	The Enhedslisten does not support the coastal pilot projects that have been, as we were against the fact that the Left would extend the scheme even further. Erling Bonnesen will get the floor again when I'm done talking, don't worry. I think it is important to say that no one is talking about plastering all the coasts with concrete. However, there has been a resistance to having more experimental schemes, because then there is a risk that municipalities will enter an internal competition with each other. Because when a municipality is allowed to build a large, beautiful hotel overlooking the water, that is what happens, because then the neighbouring municipality is pressured to want a similar experimental project as well. So what you are opening up to is a slippery path in what is in our perspective, and fortunately also in the perspective of many Danes, goes in the very wrong direction in terms of protecting what is so valuable, both for the tourism sector there is a tourism statement that in addition supports very strongly • but also for the Danish people's ability to get out and experience some nature that does not contain construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115855	Well, I'm glad that we have now established that these are the ten concrete projects that are being used to draw that picture. And I think it is now very clear that we in the Left will also take good care of our coasts so that we can just get out and walk on the beaches and enjoy outdoor life in many different ways. Just to come back to how it really started: well, it was quite clear that the Enhedslisten was a parliamentary basis for the then Social Democratic government. It may sometimes be said that you would pull the blanket and so on, but you didn't. So Enhedslisten is jointly responsible for the fact that fortunately we got these experimental projects started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202115936	The Enhedslisten was not part of the agreement that was to create more construction on the coasts. I think that is important to hold on to. So I would just like to say that I am extremely pleased that the rapporteur of the Left is such a ■ what is to be said? For what the Left has proposed is the opposite, namely that the beach protection line should be significantly reduced. I take this as an expression of listening to the massive popular protests that have taken place and seeing that this was a losing cause. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120013	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120013-2	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the picturesque language. I think I have done that many times before, and I think I would say that when Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding gets up in that rhetoric, I am at least enjoying myself. I can understand from that rhetoric that if it were for the Enhedslisten and we had a barn country today, there would not be built as much as a shed within 300 metres of anything called water. At least this is how I see what Enhedslisten says: that there should not be built in the last free nature we have. Well, it's really painted up. Now it is the case that the projects adopted under the Social Democratic Government are, I think, 15 projects we then authorized for Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl to appoint a maximum. would fill 15 km out of those, after all 7,300 km of coastline we have. Is it not actually okay to use a small part to make some development precisely in those areas that are so desperately in need of development? Doesn't Enhedslisten think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120121	There are two questions. First of all, we have dealt with a proposal from the Enhedslisten on the introduction of natural zones in the past, so it is no secret that we want more coherent nature, where nature is given the opportunity of its own free expression without the human exploitation and construction of the world. I would be quite honest with you on this; that is why we have proposed it. I think you should go in and read this analysis. I do not remember whether it is called tourism statement, but it is certainly an analysis of what it is that attracts tourists to Denmark. I think it should be read, because there are two things that are very important. One is precisely nature, experiencing an unspoiled nature where there is no construction. And the second is that in the cities that are, you can experience something cultural, some good restaurants etc. So yes, we are very concerned that there must be development, that there must be tourism, that there must be attractive things in our rural areas and, in particular, on our coasts. But we believe that this is guaranteed by maintaining the protection of the beach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120229	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120230	Well, now the beach protection line was much praised since it was introduced in the 1930s, but there it was only 100 m. It was later extended to 300 m. I think what may be problematic is that you have such a rigid line. Understand me correctly: It is not because on a large open beach there can be no room for the line to be 300 m, but there are also very many places where it does not make sense. I think I will ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur the same question that I put to Mrs Ida Auken: the development that is taking place in Copenhagen is very violent, and it should not be at the same level, but does the Enhedslisten not also think that there should be a development in the cities, because cultural sites, restaurants and such things are not even possible out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120321	First of all, it is not a rigid line, which is 300 metres everywhere. There was, in fact, a commission that went through the cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral cadastral I think that is really important to hold onto, because it is no coincidence. You haven't just taken some ruler and drawn a line and said there's 300 m, so here it has to go. It has actually been considered, and it is very concretely considered by a Commission. I think it was popularly called the rubber boot commission or something, because they were just out looking at where this line was supposed to go. Well, cities have the opportunity to develop. I think they already have that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202120400	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to postpone the sitting until today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202125958	We'll resume the meeting. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130017	Thank you. After all, we were interrupted by lunch, which was then set aside for a continued technical examination in committee. Some of us were lucky enough to have lunch. I am not going to make a major summary of what took place before the lunch break, but just note that the bill we are discussing here is, of course, the implementation of an agreement concluded by the former very narrow one-party government of the Left Party and then the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. The Liberal Alliance did not originally form part of the agreement, but, after we have joined a three-clover government, we also signed up to the agreement. And that is not because the Liberal Alliance has changed its position on the agreement in question. I am very pleased with the fact that Mrs Pia Adelsteen also said that the Danish People's Party felt that the negotiations on the agreement had not come quite as far as the Danish People's Party wanted. I would like to agree with that immediately and say that this is certainly the case with the Liberal Alliance. The reason why we were originally not in the agreement is, as I said, that we thought it was a relatively unambitious agreement. Perhaps one could then have hoped that the Danish People's Party would have been a little more persistent in the negotiations than they were. I can see from Mrs Pia Adelsteen that she would also have liked to be a little more persevering at that time. This is an agreement, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen also said, which does not give significant additional freedom to administer these rules locally. So there is a lack of freedom along our coasts. What about our islands • the Danish islands? There are a large number of islands where a large part of the area is covered by these ban zones and therefore there is virtually no housing on the islands where you can do anything without asking the state for law. That is not satisfactory. This is a 300-metre prohibition zone. It has come from an original 100-metre ban zone, which means that, at some point in the 1990s, I do not remember the exact year of the bans imposed on a large number of homeowners. That is not satisfactory either. We in the Liberal Alliance would very much have liked to have had the opportunity, in connection with the conclusion of the agreement, to go further, so that ordinary homeowners along the Danish coasts have the opportunity to build a shed, a shed, a carport or other, even if it is more than I think the agreement is 15 metres from the home. Then, in the course of today's debate, there have been a number of exchanges of views on concrete and hotels along our coastline. I would just like to remind you that the original projects were ten experimental projects, coastal tourism pilot projects, and that in the course of the negotiations it was a question of possible inclusion of other and more projects. This was not possible in the somewhat unambitious agreement. But it has never been the intention that this should, I think, run out of hand and so on. in the debate earlier today. Fortunately, in this context, there is also market regulation that can enter into force, and I believe that we have already seen some of the market regulation because there is not such a large market at the moment for these projects, which were perhaps originally intended. At any rate, I have seen headlines recently that more than perhaps two or three of these projects have not been started at this stage. And that is because at the moment there is no situation that requires it. Then I would like to make it clear, perhaps even with seven-inch nails, that competition is good. In this situation, competition between municipalities is also good, and it is in any context. All in all, it is a little unambitious for the taste of the Liberal Alliance, but in any case even if we had not joined a three-clover government a few months ago, we will vote in favour of this proposal because, after all, it represents an improvement in a situation in which a large number of homeowners and, incidentally, municipalities in this context have been held in a state iron grip and have not possessed their own property.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130515	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130520	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur something: what would this agreement look like if, according to the Liberal Alliance, it were to be sufficiently ambitious? Let us say that the Liberal Alliance had to write it itself, and what would it look like with the beach protection line, what would it look like with the coastal proximity zone, should it be completely abolished for the whole country, or what should the cut be, in order for us to have such an agreement, which, in the rapporteur's view, would be ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130551	Thank you for the question. The coastal proximity zone, in order to start with the one that the questioner also brings into this, we would like to see it also being completely open and public when we entered into the negotiations that had been completely abolished. Then we have made a number of proposals in this connection on the beach protection line itself, and our approach to the negotiations was, in this way, the equality of homeowners along our coasts with other homeowners around the country, and thus there should also be a local administration of these rules. By allowing local authorities, these improvements were to be made to the homes concerned, general improvements, window replacements and the construction of greenhouses, sandboxes, rocking racks, etc. It was supposed to be more than 10-15 m from the houses, but with a local cut and an assessment of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130654	As the comments on the draft law also state, windows can be replaced and so on. within the applicable rules. But besides being able to dispose of one's own land, what about new building? Should there still be a beach protection line where it lies today around the whole country, or would the Liberal Alliance abolish it? If we just zoom in on the beach protection line, what is the rapporteur's position on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130720	The questioner mentions existing rules, but with a derogation, but with a state over-indulgence in terms of what to do and what not to do on one's own property, and it is not appropriate, according to me and the Liberal Alliance, for the state to put its disgusting hand on the private sphere in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130745	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130748	The reason I really want to put a question to the rapporteur is that I would also like to clarify the various lines, because I think there are in fact many people in the Danish country who are a little confused. At least I was when I became an environmental rapporteur, because we know... no, we must not say that, but we have a very, very many lines, to put it mildly. But it is true that there is a 300 m beach protection line, and then we have this 3 km coast protection line, i.e. another 2,700 m it is called, I think. I can never remember their names, but we have those lines. What I really want to ask is: when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur claims that it was easy enough to make high beds and to change windows, the rapporteur can confirm that there have at least been several examples that we should not make high beds, that we should not make sandboxes, that we should not make rocking racks for children, etc. etc.? At least I've been stormed with e-mails, I'd say, from people who can't do anything. They can't even move their patio. So that is just what I want to hear from the rapporteur whether he can confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130854	I can confirm that. It's probably the same people I've been receiving e-mails from. Popularly, one might say that one cannot plant one's trees and shrubs as one wants in gardens when they are within the beach protection line. And then I think it is called the coastal proximity zone when it is the second zone which the questioner refers to and which, I think, goes 3,000 metres, i.e. 3 km, from the edge of the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130919	Well, I'm glad to be clear about that, because it sounds like everything was pretty much just possible. All you had to do was apply for dispensation. And there you can say, as we in the Danish People's Party at any rate think, that it is very good that we no longer need to trouble citizens and bureaucracy, to put it mildly, precisely by seeking derogations for something for which everyone is apparently always granted a derogation. Then we might as well just legalize it and say that you can. And I guess that's what we've done first and foremost, even though I think that both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance would have wanted to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202130951	That is absolutely correct. In relation to the derogation, I would say that there is also a dark figure in what is being put forward, because the vast majority of the derogation applications have been accepted. There is a dark figure there, because there is local counselling by the municipal case managers, and when individuals come in and ask if they can expand or build a sandbox or other, they are told: No, don't spend your time applying for it, it doesn't pay you, you get a refusal when you apply to the state for permission to build what you want on your own property.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131028	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131032	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur fully answered Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding's question about the beach protection line. There was an answer that was about it being up to the municipalities, i.e. a local decision. But does what the rapporteur says mean that there should be no limits to what the municipalities should allow for construction within the beach protection line?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131100	First of all, we would like there to be significantly more local democracy over this. Exactly how the rules should be drawn up is, you might say, part of the discussions between the parties to the agreement. After all, it takes 90 seats to change this. But for example... You could start by rolling back the time back to the 1990s. I can't do the exact year when it was pulled over the heads of the people who live from 100 m to 300 m, i.e. in the 200 m at the bottom of the beach protection line. This could then be started by rolling back; it could probably remedy the situation a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131140	Well, I know all about the fact that you have to give and take as a party to the agreement, but I'd like to hear about the Liberal Alliance's wish scenario. If LA could make the legislation itself, what would it be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131157-2	That is what I was trying to outline in the first place in relation to local democracy. Unlike other rapporteurs in the Chamber who have also been on the floor, I have a very high degree of confidence in local democracy and the consultation process and preparatory work, citizen involvement, etc. that are out there. There is no doubt that it is the people who live around our coasts who have the greatest link with the coasts, also in relation to what is happening there. In doing so, they also have the greatest need to look after our coasts and keep the coasts as you want them to be locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131238	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131241	Thank you. The rapporteur said very clearly that competition is good. I agree with that in a way that goes a long way, but I also believe that there are some situations where competition needs to be put out of business, namely if it serves a higher purpose. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur if the rapporteur does not recognise that if the municipalities are allowed to compete 100% freely here, a situation quickly arises where there is pressure to allow much more construction to compete with the neighbouring municipality and that in the long term it can lead to more construction than what might be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131321	I can hardly see the questioner in the Chamber! I would just like to say briefly that no, I do not actually recognise that. As I also replied to Mrs Trine Torp just now, I believe that there is a situation here where the local citizens who live along our coasts have, in addition to an obligation, a desire to maintain the landscape and nature and the local area in a way that serves the local area best. And that's kind of what I'm interested in. I am not interested here from Christiansborg and from the Parliament's platform to draw any restrictions whatsoever on what is going to happen locally in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131412	I can inform the rapporteur that I have now been in the Chamber since the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was in the chair on this matter, but that I have not asked any questions. I think I will not ask for more, but I would just say that there is a difference here between liberalism and conservatism in relation to the belief in the capacity of market forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131432	I would clearly agree with the questioner that there is a difference between conservatism and liberalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131441	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, there are no more brief comments, and we welcome Mr Bach. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131450	The Danish coasts belong to all of us, and it is quite fantastic, and it must remain that way. This is where we have the wild nature in large, coherent stretches, and it is something that pleases me every time I'm out on the coasts. Unfortunately, I don't live there because I can't afford that, but every time I'm out there, I'm delighted with the great unbroken stretch of coastline with wild, dynamic nature that unfolds outside of many disturbances. That is why it is insanely important for us in the Alternative that, as far as we can at all, we continue to safeguard the coherent nature that we have there. And I am sure it is no surprise that we are therefore very sceptical and are going to vote against the proposal before us, because although it has been moderated in the negotiations, I have no doubt, for the better, it is still a proposal which, in our view, goes too far. At the weekend there was a chronicle in Berlingske by Anne-Mette Hjalager from the University of Southern Denmark, and there she explains why there is actually no need for more coastal construction. She actually mentions that the neglected coastal towns are one of the things you could work with instead. I also noticed that Maria Reumert Gjerding previously referred to this coastal tourism analysis... whose sender I also don't quite remember what it is called, but it is an institute that has made it that points out that when tourists come to the Danish coasts, it is the unbroken coasts that they are going after, it is nature along the coasts that is the big drawing patch, but they wonder that coastal towns are worn out, that they have not done more about them, that they have not got the cars out of the city cores, and that they have not created a much more inspiring environment in many of the coastal towns we have. I think that is the point. I would like to talk about what we should do instead, because we need development along the Danish coasts, but that development must be based on the cities that are already there. The beach protection that we have today, the planning law that we have today, offers plenty of opportunities to expand, develop the local, both in terms of tourism and housing and occupation, and this can easily be done on the basis of the coastal towns we have today. This applies to the smaller cities and the larger cities, as well as to the capital city, which several people have also been able to compare with today. With that remark, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131756	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131800	I am just wondering where it is that the proposal goes too far. Because, as I hear the rapporteur, he says that we need to invest a little more on the neglected coastal towns, and that is actually one of the things we are trying to do with the proposal, in other words to allow these so-called neglected coastal towns to actually do something. The rapporteur thinks they have such ample opportunities, but now I mentioned an example of a small ice house located at a large parking lot in Liselej, which will expand their toilets, so that there is also a handicap toilet, and they have not actually had that option until now. And that's what they're allowed to do. So where exactly is it in the proposal that we go too far? Because when you ask the tourists who are in Denmark, they say, according to the rapporteur, that they love the wild nature, yes, that is why they have come to Denmark, because there is not much else. Well, I guess we don't get tourists who want the Costa del Sol, because we don't, and we don't have long promenades, you can go on the road, maybe in here in Copenhagen, but at least not over on the West Coast. So it is clear that the tourists who come to Denmark will of course answer that they come here because they want to see the nature we have and not so much else. But it could be that we could attract some more if we gave more opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131921	I think, of course, that we should be able to grant exemptions in relation to something like a handicap toilet. What is typically the problem is that you might want to put it too far away from other buildings, and then it makes sense to say: Hey, couldn't we put it somewhere so that we put the buildings together? It is, of course, a basic principle that lies in the protection of the beach and in the whole planetary approach today, i.e. keeping buildings together and keeping technical installations together as far as possible. And then you have the open landscapes somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202131956	I don't understand the answer. Now I myself have been self-employed until I came in here, and if I were to open an ice scotch on some beach on the West Coast, I would, believe me, choose a place where there was power and sewer nearby. In other words, the rapporteur must know what the cost of such a thing is. It costs half a farm to do something like this, if you first have to get started, so of course you choose it near where there is something else. But those we also give an opportunity are winter bathers who at this point must put a stake in the beach and then put their towels over. Well, you can't object to that. So where exactly is it in the proposal that we go too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132040	I can only look at several consultation answers that it is imprecise what is allowed here and that something that may end up being too scattered is being opened up. And I don't think that's what we should have along our shores. I think that we should have combined construction, and I think that we should expand when we need it, but expand into the country with the activities that need to be done. I know that there is a practice of dispensation which makes it possible to do many of these things, but it is also an assessment every time, whether this goes too far or not going too far, and often smaller extensions will be permitted, but you put your foot down where there are suddenly bigger things that lie down on the beach or close. And that is what we want to maintain, in other words, that we can maintain the approach we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132131	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132134	Thank you. I also think it sounds rather thin-legged that the Alternative's rapporteur is standing here saying that things are going too far and then cannot point to anything or justify it at all. The rapporteur then says that the alternative would like to see development in the areas, and I think we should try to tackle that. Let's try to get to the cafes. I understand that the rapporteur would like to travel on the beach protection line in different places and enjoy all the gloryes. Was it not appropriate that we could also say that some of the existing buildings could be allowed to open a café? Could this not be a way of creating an appropriate development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132227	Well, I would love to go for a long walk along the beach, an hour one way and an hour the other way, and then finish at a café located in the coastal town that I started from, and where I might have parked, or where I live for rent. That is the principle that I think it is about in relation to our coasts, that is, that we have a base in the cities, and then we can walk out in the free nature and come back and go to the café or whatever else we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132258	Well then, let us say that on the trip that the Alternative's rapporteur sees as such, no café was encountered in the area in question, but just passed by some of the existing buildings out there, and then thought: it was a pity there wasn't a café in just one of them. Could it not then be appropriate to open up the possibility that it could be an opportunity, since someone would actually like to set up a café in some existing buildings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132327	Now I do not know what kind of buildings the rapporteur is referring to. But it will be the case that if you have a building that is not used for anything, but which then needs to be upgraded to, for example, a building that is not used for anything. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Access to waste management and so on must be granted. etc. And it upgrades it to a much more technical part of the landscape than if it is a small building that has not been used for anything. That is why I think the question is somewhat unclear. But the principle of the attitude we have is that we should, as far as possible, maintain the free and wild nature we have along the coasts of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132414	It's sir. Carsten Bach now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132421	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In fact, I would like to ask briefly whether the rapporteur could not see any possibility in that these rules and derogations, and so on, which the rapporteur himself mentions in his speech, were administered locally by the municipalities, such as the United Kingdom. in Løkken, where you happily drive some small beach houses down to the beach every summer and have them standing there. It can be done locally, and you're actually comfortable with that. It has been a tradition for many years, which one would like to continue to preserve, and could not that be done elsewhere if one thought it was a good idea at local level?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132506-2	What is interesting is what principles are used when granting such permits or exemptions. And these should, of course, be general guidelines, as we know from the acquis that exists today. It may be that you can deal with this sort of thing in a municipal capacity. I'm not going to deny that. Especially in relation to the private things such as... gardens, which have also been talked about, it might well be possible to deal with these kinds of derogations more locally. Maybe I'll think that was fine. But the problem is if we also talk about the places where investors come and say: if I get to build there, I want to be there. Then, of course, it is opening up to the dangerous development, which is suddenly being built freely, and then later expands with the next level of free travel along the coast, because buildings suddenly have to have a longer distance from each other. This is what the slippery path is about to start opening up in general to these things, and we would like to insist on this, namely that we gather settlements around the cities and the activities that already exist and try to keep off long, undisturbed land as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132617	Thank you. I sensed a very, very small opening to some local democracy. I would just like to get an explanation of what it is that Mr. Christian Poll believes that he and other MPs and the state as an administrative unit are better at assessing what is good and less good for local areas, including our coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132643	But that is the balance between the general principles on the one hand and the money on the other. For there can typically come an investor and say: I can add so and so much if I get to build there. And if it is then the municipality that has the final word on such a large decision as it will be, then it may well be a little too tempting for them, and then it is precisely the first step in a development that we do not want to see where free coastlines are getting shorter and shorter and more and more disturbed by technical installations. So we want there to be some general principles for it and they are currently being centrally administered. I could imagine that they might well be managed more locally in some smaller private cases with landowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132738	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no more brief comments, and I welcome Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202132749	When I've been traveling, I've seen some places where you've built all the way down to the coast. You may not even be allowed to walk along the water like this without there being a fence that divides up the coast, and where you can walk along the water, there is construction right down to the water. When I get home, I am delighted to see the small outskirts, the small community in which I live, Halsnæs, where I can walk along the sea in, yes, up to an hour and a half with my dog without meeting any man-made on that coastline. I think that is a unique quality of nature that we must preserve and appreciate for all things in the world, and I actually think there are many others who like me live out there who really appreciate that. When we make planning, it is always a balance between caution and freedom of action. It is a balance between the interests of the individual citizen and the interests of the community, and in SF we want to help change rules that are illogical and unnecessary. But we also believe that we should remember the history of the beach protection line and the great benefits it has enjoyed, rather than focusing primarily on small foolishness such as a bed or bench, which is, however, often exempted. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party for at least having removed the worst proposals that have come from the Left over the last few years in relation to the protection of the free Danish coasts, or perhaps I should say proposals on the opposite of protection. Unfortunately, the price has been a series of setbacks for the law of plans, which the Left has placed over with the Ministry of Business and Growth, after it was for decades with the Ministry of the Environment, where the Minister is now both Minister for the Environment and Agriculture and is therefore also concerned with the growth of agriculture, where it can be done. The Minister nods that, I see. So nature and coasts are still crowded by the Left. However, I think there is reason to acknowledge that the Socialists and perhaps also the Conservatives have influenced this in a positive direction. However, we ourselves would have insisted on further improvements, but unfortunately SF was not invited to the negotiations. I believe that this would have led to further improvements, for which at least the Conservatives and the Social Democrats could have been sympathetic. In the committee work we will focus on those improvements. The Danish Nature Conservation Association, in its consultation reply, has provided some very precise suggestions on how the proposal could be raised to a level where it would delight far more people than builders, mayors and people with housing in the first place to the beach. Finally, I would like to mention a proposal that I made last week when we discussed the proposal from the Alternative and Unity List on coastal protection. After all, climate change cannot fail to affect the current beach protection line. The dam of the 300 m will be narrower as the sea climbs. We cannot avoid that, no matter how much coast protection we do. I would therefore also like to focus in the committee's work on the SF's own proposal to set up a Commission to draft a proper climate adjustment law. In this context, I would also like to highlight the proposal from the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Free Air Council that a new beach Commission be set up to review the beach protection line in a transparent process with public consultations, etc., taking into account the beach protection line in a changing climate with higher water levels. Finally, I think it would be useful if the committee were to be able to transmit a map showing the current beach protection line and then the water increases that can be expected for the next few decades, perhaps up to the year 2100. In the SF, we cannot support the bill as it stands, but we would like to be involved in discussing changes if there is a high focus on nature, the coasts and free and equal access to the coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133215	Sir. Erling Bonnesen will enrich us with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133221	Thank you. I understand that the SF rapporteur is very pleased to take long walks. I think something was mentioned about Halsnæs on Sjælland. Now I'm elected to Funen, and I also like to go to Funen. The Funen people are actually so happy to stay on Funen that some of them go all around Funen during the summer. It's also a good, long trip, I'll say hello. So it's about 300 kilometers or on that layer. Then there are some of them who also say: it could be nice if you could just so stop at a café and get a cup of hot chocolate if it was such a day as today. They just can't, at least not anywhere enough. So wasn't it a place where you could just say on Funen that you wanted to have a little café like that? They are not even going to build anything new, because there are already some buildings out there for it, it can't hurt anything, and it certainly doesn't smash everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133310	I think if you walk around Funen, you'll get to, even if it's close to the beach, to meet existing cities where there's an opportunity to make a café. What we are talking about is, after all, expanding the areas where they are being built. And I think that some of the quality of walking there freely in the wild is that yes, you may need to meet a lifeguard house or something else that is there temporarily in the summer, but this is the fact that it is not carnival, it is not entertainment that there are actually some values in going out in nature alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133351	Well, luckily there are some good coastal towns around Funen too, but there is also such a certain distance between them that most people are familiar with, and that does not create a carnival, because there are some places such smaller properties left from the time when you could build there. But then I can understand on the SF that they just have to stand and degenerate and disfigure the area instead. That doesn't create any appreciation. Then it would be better to say that these buildings are there, so let us use them wisely. And it could just be for such a café. But then you shouldn't be allowed to do that in SF's opinion, they just have to stand and fall. I think that's bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133429	This is one of the proposals in which I am concerned about the fact that if a building has not been used for three years, then it must be used for something other than what was originally intended, because that is what can create this slippery slope alone, that it is not being used. You could also say that it had to be demolished. That's another option. This is what changes the purpose of the original permits that have been granted to such a building, so that it can now be freely used for something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133500	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There's no more short remarks... did one come? Then we'll bring Mrs. Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133512	It was only because of the last remark that you can just tear it down. In my optics, the Socialist People's Party has always been a party in favour of sustainability, recycling, re-use and environmental awareness, and so on, and now the rapporteur stands and says: Never mind, we can just tear down a house. Well, it has something about environmental awareness, recycling etc. To do? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133538	I mentioned it because it is another possibility. It sounded like there's only one option, and it's having a dilapidated building standing on the beach or letting it go for anything. What I'm just saying is, it's not the only option. It's fine if you can restore a building and let it be used for the original purpose. And all we have to do is remember that there are exemptions, even as the law is today, so if you can argue for the proper use of such a building, that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133611	I mean, the fact that you can just get a derogation, I'd just like to shoot down so much, because I wouldn't have gotten these millions of e-mails in connection with this whole debate that I've been given. It is the case that within the beach protection line there is a ban on condition changes. It is high and clear that there is a ban on changes in condition. It also means that if there is a dilapidated rowing, you really must not do anything about it. One of the things that the Danish People's Party actually got through was that you can make changes in the condition of buildings if people with disabilities live. We have got this through, and I am very pleased about it, because it has actually helped some families around, who live within the 300 metres, and who have children they cannot have living at home because they cannot change their house. So this whole thing about just getting a dispensation, it's bullshit. That is why I think somewhere else we should also open our eyes to the reality that is out there. There are houses standing and falling because you can't make a virtue, and that's not okay. Of course they must be allowed to live out there, of course one must be allowed to exist near water in a country like Denmark where we have at least 7,300 km of coastline. Well, that's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133725	I didn't really hear any question I was looking for, but I guess it was just a statement of opinion. Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133731	But that is also permitted, and that is a brief comment. If more people had a brief comment to make to Mrs Trine Torp, it has to be now. There isn't. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202133746	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are discussing today is, after all, the implementation of the agreement called Denmark in a better balance sheet, and I think it is, in fact, one of the agreements that I, as a parliamentarian, have been involved in negotiating, which I am most satisfied with in the sense that I really think it is democracy in its finest form. There was a reasonable distance between the parties at the first negotiating meeting and I can tell you that and I think today's debate also shows that there are still many different views on this matter. Yet we ended up at least widely across the middle, and praise to the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party for being on the final paper to get an agreement that I think facilitates the right places, but at the same time holds to the protection of our coasts and our natural landscape, which is so important to all of us in here. Balance, which is also included in the title of this text of the agreement, is crucial to the balance between protection and use. There are plenty of outdoor activities in Denmark that need better conditions, and you get that among other things. With this bill. But there is also a need to protect some of the last wild nature we have in Denmark. But it is also a balancing act between state control and over-poverty. I have heard about how people have had to search long distances in order to be allowed to build things in their private gardens, which are already permitted in Denmark, and where in the vast majority of cases it is granted permission per year. automatic. There it is stupid, both for the sake of the individual and also for the sake of the Community's resources, that one should apply for this kind of thing. We should no longer do that in what is in the immediate vicinity of the house. We are still protecting the open country, and it was also one of the discussions we had in the negotiations, in other words what the level of authorisation should be there. I appreciate the place we've landed. With this bill, it will also be possible for associations and clubs to be allowed to build shacks at the beach. For example, it can be a kindergarten that can have a food package that they can use to get out and experience and use nature. That is also part of the purpose of the fact that it is there, understand me correctly, i.e. that it should be passed on to the next generations. At the same time, it is clear that if the purpose of these huts changes, you can't just use them. You can't just say that, for example. A chess club all of a sudden can take advantage of these cabins. You have to have a purpose linked to activity at sea. I think that is a very sensible wording, which is also contained in this draft law. There has been much debate today about whether there was a desire to simply build the Danish coasts with concrete. I don't think there's been any desire for that. But I would also like to say that it has also been important for the Conservative People's Party that we have kept our hands on these experimental projects. It has been the case that we have been involved in ten experimental projects in Denmark in the past. We thought that was fine, but we find it difficult to see why more experimental projects should be carried out before they have been evaluated which have already been put into the world. And that has not yet been achieved. And as a rapporteur, I do not remember whether it was the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, who mentioned earlier, not so many of these experimental projects from then on have been carried out. Then there is every reason to follow these experimental projects and their experience. All in all, we think that we have landed very sensibly in this revision of the planning law, where we find the right balance between protecting and using it. I am not going to go into all the details of this bill because we have been through it thoroughly already, but simply express satisfaction that it landed where it did.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134116	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134121	Thank you. I have also signed in my rapporteur's speech that the Conservative People's Party was involved in drawing this agreement in a more sensible direction than that proposed by the Left. We have discussed this several times. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, as the rules are today, you can plant in existing gardens without a derogation; you can make a replacement of roofs and windows without a derogation; you can practically always obtain exemption for outdoor activities such as paths, shelters, toilet buildings, communication, benches, parking spaces. When I read the comments on this bill, I was actually a little surprised at how much can happen today without any kind of derogation being sought. My one question is: where has this been the great need to extend the right of advice? What is extremely worrying is that there must be this growing gardening of areas that are actually far away from people's homes, so that when you walk by the beach, you have to zigzag between rocking stands and sandboxes and apple trees. That's why we've had these rules. I would just like to ask the rapporteur about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134232	Thank you. It is quite true, as Mrs Reumert Gjerd, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, says, that there are a number of things that we can do today without seeking a derogation. But there are also a number of conditions that need to be applied for today, whether it is in the immediate vicinity of the settlement or more than the 15 m from the settlement • simple things such as showers, sandboxes and everything else. And I, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, have also received a great many e-mails from some of the frustrated citizens who think this is a ridicule of their time. But I can actually follow the rapporteur in relation to the protection of the open country, which is why we are also very pleased with this 15-metre rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134316	I would like to ask you something else that concerns me in what lies there, and that is the fact that the beach protection line between port and city is completely abolished. But perhaps it is also just because I cannot see how large the area is and whether there is really large natural areas between a city and a port. Does the rapporteur have any idea how much land it is and what is really at stake here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134341	If there are large natural areas between town and port which have a real natural value, then I do not want us to abolish the beach protection line there. But we also have to say that there are very many places at ports where there are small stripes of land that do not serve any natural purpose but are currently subject to the beach protection line. I have visited Hundested Harbour myself, I think it was where among others. There is a small strip that poses significant obstacles to the development of the port, but which I must say, frankly, has no natural value, either as a natural experience or as such in relation to biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134417	Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134420	"Better balance sheet" is in the heading of the agreement, which is the reason for the bill here. When it is said that the balance sheet is better, it is, in my view, an indication that there is an imbalance. That imbalance is getting smaller, but the imbalance is still there. Will the rapporteur perhaps agree with me on this? And would the rapporteur possibly explain to you and to others in the Chamber which parts of the agreement, according to the Conservative People's Party, should have been moved to make the agreement more ideal, so that it became an agreement in complete balance, according to the view of the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134505	The first part of the question reminds me a little when the Prime Minister talked about paying a little less of a little more in taxes or what it was like. I am not quite sure that I can give a clear answer to that part. Then there is the question of where we could see changes in this agreement. Now I have chosen to focus on the positive. For example, there are some things in this agreement that are about the opportunities you have at campsites. From the conservative point of view, if new installations were to be built there, we would have liked them to be behind, for example, huts or other things that already form a front towards the coast. But in the big picture, it's less regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134543	Thank you. Better balance. Well, then there's imbalance. Therefore, one might say, the rapporteur could perhaps explain how some things might add to the balance. Instead, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can explain to me, as a questioner, what makes us here in the Folketing better at managing this legislation and the areas along our coasts than we are at local level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134617	The rapporteur and I had an exchange of views on this very point earlier. As a conservative, I do not believe that unbridled free competition is necessarily always good. I do not think it is when it comes to our shores. The competition that would arise between municipalities, I do not think, is doing anything good here. Then I have to say that there is a difference between liberal and conservative. It is said that liberals know the price of everything, but the value of nothing, and in this area I am perhaps a little inclined to agree with that quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134645	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134648	I need to hear something about local democracy. You have beach protection lines. Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned herself that we must take care of the open country and the open routes that everyone is talking about. There's a lot of them. There's that rule in 15 m in the garden. I would like to ask the rapporteur why they landed at 10-15 metres, knowing that there may be gardens 300 metres inland. Perhaps it is chops that are very long and very narrow and that must be said to be reasonably limited. What exactly makes you not to make a terrace at the other end of the garden?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134736	In the negotiations, the concept was applied in the immediate vicinity of the settlement. This has been put into practice in the legal text for these 15 m. Why it landed at 15 metres and not 12 metres, I think you have to ask some officials. But the definition is in the immediate vicinity of the settlement. On the question of why we should not, for example, put a large terrace at the end of the garden, I would say that this is because it is more open country. We have a consideration to take in order to preserve the free and wild nature. It just matters how many breakups there are in the landscape. It is clear that it can seem very peaceful with a swing stand here and a terrace there, but it is breakup in the open country. That is why we believe that derogations need to be sought. However, the agreement also states that it must be easier to obtain that derogation than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134829	Yeah, lucky for that. I ask, for every time we talk about the beach protection line, it seems to me as if only in open country, west coast, beach or cottage building etc., where you can easily regulate through local plans whether there may be hedges or racks, or what I know, around. It's easy to do that through local plans. When I drill a little, it is because I experience that there are plenty of people living within the beach protection line who actually live in a parcelhouse district, but they are therefore 300 metres from a fjord. They must now, despite the fact that it is a parcel house district, despite the fact that there are cars and so on, not make a garden shed on the other side of the garden, even though the neighbour is behind it. There's no beach, there's no open country, you can't walk around in it all, but they can't do it. I don't understand. I think it's illogical that I think it's weird that I think it's rich. I can't believe Conservatives won't help change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134930	The questioner must not exceed time so much. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202134935	That's not true when the questioner says you can't make this shed. But it is true that if it is not in the immediate context of the settlement, it must be exempted. In this way, there is equality before the law, whether it is a parcel house district or whether it is something that lies in more immediate proximity to the coastline. But I have some doubts as to whether the Danish People's Party wishes to abolish the beach protection line. This smells a little bit. After all, I have not heard the questioner say that on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135001	Then we thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard and warmly welcome our Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135008	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. In June 2016, the former government, the Left Government, the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party signed an agreement on modernising the Planning Act and the Nature Conservation Act rules on beach protection and dune conservation and on the sea and river protection line. Following the formation of the government in November, the Liberal Alliance has also become part of the agreement. I am therefore also pleased to be able to stand here today and present the implementation of the agreement in the form of a legislative proposal with such broad political support. At the same time, it is also a pleasure to present a bill that gives municipalities and tourism companies throughout the country more freedom to strengthen association and tourism along the Danish coasts and, above all, gives citizens living along the coasts more freedom in their own seas. As has been mentioned, the Danish coasts and beaches are a distinctive and some of our unique nature, and therefore the beaches have also enjoyed special protection for generations. But, of course, it has been sought when Mr. Christian Poll and Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding and SF's rapporteur talk about these completely untouched shores where they walk the dog. Because what is the case? If SF, Enhedslisten and Alternativet went on a small cycling trip I don't even invite you to drive out to the west coast of Jutland, parked the bike in Søndervig and went for a walk 27 km north, then they could enjoy the pristine shores unless they go and scrape a bit in the dunes. Because what's hiding behind the dunes? Hiding hard on the coast. So these pristine beaches and coasts, which are spoken so loud and beautifully about, are not untouched in Denmark. If Mrs. Trine Torp walks up at Halsnæs and continues the ride around the decoration and further towards Elsinore, what does Mrs. Trine Torp see? She sees tough coast protection. Why do you use it? To protect coasts from erosion and protect citizens' property. So it's nonsense when every single time a picture has to be stacked up that the pristine shores we can do nothing about, and it's oh so horrible that there are now a few places in this country where hotspots can be made with positive signs where you can build kayak watches, where the local swimming club can get a sauna for winter bathing etc. etc. The fact that the Danes can come out and use nature without us sitting in here and being taste judges is a huge achievement. That's why it's so enjoyable that with a broad majority in the Folketing we're putting trump on this. Of course, the protection of our territories has also resulted in too many restrictions on the buildings located in the protection zone. We have all heard about, and this has also been mentioned today, citizens who are refused to make a terrace or a mound in their own garden. That is why, of course, we have also considered that there is a need to adjust the rules. We need legislation that does not place unnecessary restrictions on citizens. Legislation must not stand in the way of our being able to use the beaches more actively. This also applies to people with disabilities. For the position which, among other things, has been adopted. The three parties have expressed themselves, of course, that people with disabilities have far more difficulty in coming down and enjoying the coasts than if you do not have a disability. That is why, of course, the citizens must also be taken into account, and I would also like to sign up to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for having struck a good blow in the negotiations in order to take account of people with disabilities. Even if we get shot in the shoes that we now allow to build constructions by the water, as far as the eye can see, it's all over. We have 7,300 km of coastline in Denmark, so there is room for facilities to be set up in selected places. And there must be a local plan in terms of both design and vision, but also in terms of how the visual becomes around the buildings. This means that local community life, child and youth organisations, institutions and tourists will benefit from this. This is a unique potential to attract more tourists. It is also nonsense when it is said from up here by the three parties that tourists only come to have a completely untouched experience. That's nonsense. Because where do the tourists get together, too? For example: On the west coast of Jutland in a town like Hvide Sande, tourists gather there, where is it? there is a decline over the dunes, where there is the possibility of going to toilet buildings where it is possible to go and bathe, but where there is also a hiking trail on a large pier. Why, then, can it be done there? It can, because it is a port area. Now you are just so privileged that one of Denmark's best beaches, the South Beach at Hvide Sande, is located in a port area, and therefore there can be facilities. It is a clear example of what we need to get more of at selected coastal areas. Therefore, in this proposal there is a balance between sensible use and protection, because that is what we also want. I don't want to go through all the adjusted rules. Several have done so during this debate. This is a quite excellent debate. I just want to say that with this, we are going to have a gain, so that we can use nature more actively, while at the same time protecting the many areas we have. In conclusion, I would just like to say that it has not been pretty to look at the fact that scaremongering has been carried out. I am not saying that with regard to some particular parties here in the Folketing, but with regard to nature organisations outside this high thing, which, with false claims, have campaigned against being able to use nature more actively. It hasn't been pretty to watch. However, it is a pleasure for me to note that there is a broad majority in the Folketing supporting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135539	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135545	Thank you very much. Now I think that the Minister for the Environment should make extreme efforts to report rapporteurs correctly in general terms. For example, I have. No dog, I can inform you about. So I would just like to say that the legal notes state that there is usually dispensation of facilities to support open-air life, that is. paths, shelters, toilet buildings, communication, benches and parking spaces. That means that these things are normally exempted. It may then be that it is estimated that here is a particularly important area and, incidentally, a parking space not so far away, so there should not be a derogation. What, then, is the problem when practice is like this today? Then it may well be that there are some who are extremely frustrated that they cannot get a parking space right in a particular place. But it is, of course, a question of having a nature protection law that took some general considerations to protect certain sections. I would ask the Minister for the Environment to answer that question. What exactly is this claim, just so that I can write down what some nature organizations have raised, if we just become a little concrete, as the Minister of the Environment thinks is quite reprehensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135654	I should like to apologise if the rapporteur has taken the view that I thought the rapporteur had a dog. I certainly didn't mean to. It was Mrs. Trine Torp I was referring to. She told me heartwarmingly in her excellent speech that she was walking the dog. So it was certainly not the case that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also had a dog. I am extremely sorry about that. We really want to get away from this bureaucratic monster where citizens are obliged to apply for exemptions for everything. It doesn't make any sense. That is one of the things we would like to deregulate. That's why we're changing these rules. Then there will be a few individual cases. That is also what the Conservative rapporteur has said about where a derogation practice may be necessary, and that is what we have put into the agreement. Then I don't think I need to refer to what campaigns I've been thinking about. The rapporteur can see this very well in the debates that have taken place in the past about nature interests. There has been talk of building hotels and everything in dunes and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135751	I have also followed these campaigns closely, as has the Minister, and I think that very precise reference has been made, namely that some experimental projects were wanted, among other things. was about better opportunities to build hotels close to the coasts. I don't see anything wrong in that campaign. I understand that you will be frustrated if there are just under 150,000 signatures, as far as I remember, against the proposal that has now been made, but I do not see that this is a wrong campaign. Then I have one more question. The proposal also states that the beach protection line between port and city will be completely abolished. It is really unclear to me, but I can also put it as a written question. The Minister for the Environment may be able to respond today. What will be the total area in Denmark if the beach protection line is abolished there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135843	Thank you for the question. Well, that depends entirely on which municipalities apply for it. Because it is not the case that you per. automatics now cancels the beach protection line anywhere between city and port. It would have to be based on individual applications. However, I am aware that in several places in this country one would like to be able to develop one's city on the stretch between town and port. The Conservative rapporteur also referred to it somewhere. It will depend entirely on which municipalities are seeking. Whether we can make a survey in the Ministry of the Environment and Food of all possible places where it could happen, I simply do not dare to say, because I do not know if we have exactly map material from every municipality in the country where there could be a back area between the municipality and port that could be exploited. However, as I have said, this will be the result of a derogation that is being applied for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135931	If it had now been the original rules of the Folketing that applied, we would have to thank the honored Minister for today's work so much. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak in this debate? There isn't. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202135957	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140015	Thank you. Just a few years ago, self-propelled cars sounded like something from a sci-fi movie, but that's no longer the case. The technology is getting better and better, and more functions are being automated. It provides exciting perspectives for using technology to ensure a higher road safety, provide new opportunities and to limit congestion. And we already know that there are two good municipalities in this country, Aalborg and Vesthimmerland, who are interested in trying to help rethink and streamline the bourgeois welfare by using this technology. That is, for example, the case. on buses on lines where there are not many passengers. But we could easily imagine that more will come into play if we first open up some experiments. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have also looked forward to this bill and to today's debate. Abroad, we can see that more are going on. There are also cities that have already opened up trials on self-propelled cars. So we're gonna get on the wagon, too. However, it is of course essential that safety is in order, and that is why we are also pleased that the system contains a number of elements, among others. that an independent consultant must assess whether tests can be carried out in a road safety manner; that approval can only be made on the basis of a specific application, with clarity as to which roads we are talking about, how much the vehicle is automated, weather conditions, the organisation behind, a plan for data collection and much else; and that there is a presentation in the Transport Committee. We believe it is important that we wear belts and belts and that we should also listen to the critical voices that we can also see in the consultation responses to the legislative proposal. We must do so when individual approvals are to be granted. With regard to the various types of automation, we agree that experiments should not be opened up for fully self-propelled cars, but only for categories 0-4, as the draft law says. Similarly, there must also be clarity of responsibility and assurance in each experiment, and relevant actors must be involved along the way. That is also what the Ministry mentioned in the reply in the consultation note. Basically, we think that there are a great many good prospects in this: to use vehicles more efficiently, to have new opportunities in rural areas, to have better road safety, other forms of parking and much more. However, I can see that the possibilities may also have made it run a little bit off with my colleague from the Liberal Alliance, who has at least said that self-propelled cars can completely replace our investments in public transport. We just want to say on the part of the Social Democrats that this is not our ambition with this bill. We do not agree that this is where we will end up. We continue to need good rail, bus and bicycle solutions across the country, which reduce congestion and a greener transport sector. So for us, the solution is a both-and-not a either-or. However, we support the proposal, emphasising that this must be done in terms of safety. We follow this closely both with a mid-term review and with a conclusion to the pilot scheme after five years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140328	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140331	It was right to say that security must be in order. Of course, I fully agree with that. However, the rapporteur himself also referred to the question of clarification on insurance matters. This is one of the places where a number of consultation responses express concern that it is unclear. In particular, it has become unclear that the draft law has gone from the original draft to the final one. That's the whole question of this objective responsibility. I would just like to hear about this, because the rapporteur himself says that these are some things that need to be clarified. Does the rapporteur think that this has been clarified in the draft law before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140418	First of all, I agree that a number of challenges are being outlined when moving to these categories, and a little depending on which category of automation we are talking about, there will be slightly different ways of resolving the issue of liability and the question of insurance. One might say that there are both some votes on one side and on the other side. As I read the reply we have received from the Ministry, but as I also think it would be good to get the drill into committee reading, it must be clarified and made perfectly clear in relation to the approval given for each experiment. So in this way I feel convinced that we will not see any attempts where there is confusion. It will then be a task that the Social Democracy, but also the Enhedslisten, will be involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140511	It can almost be said that the news in this draft law is precisely that it is not generally established that there is an objective responsibility which falls to the licence holder. It will suddenly also be a question of the poor driver, I would say, who has been sitting in a self-propelled car. At one moment he is a passenger and lets himself be carried around, and at the next moment he is asked to intervene. There are some points that have been outlined there. After all, it takes some time for you to be asked to do so and some time before you can react and so on. etc. Who is responsible for the accident that may occur during that period?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140557	It will depend on what type of automation we are talking about. In fact, I think that is something that this material makes clear, namely that it is not necessarily that simple to answer. Of course, the licence holder must have a responsibility, but it is clear that as a driver in Denmark it is, whichever car you drive, you also have a responsibility to meet the requirements of driving a car. Therefore, it will be different depending on whether it is some of the first categories we are talking about or some of the last categories of automation we are talking about. Again, I would just like to emphasise that safety is really important to us, so that is why it is also something that we will address in relation to individual decisions. However, I would also urge that we be able to make this clear in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140640	Thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin. We shall now proceed to a new rapporteur, Mr President. Kim Christiansen for Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140648	In its time, when the first steam engine was launched, many people thought that it was the evil self that had been released, because that had not really been seen before. Later came the first car. Later, people began to try to fly. Many thought it was something that was reserved for birds. Today we all fly with great pleasure. So, of course, we also have to say yes to these new initiatives and to these new opportunities that come up with in this case, not driverless cars, but self-propelled cars. I myself have been in the United States with the committee to look at drivers' cars as well. I think this is the next step. What worries me is not so much insurance and things like that, because I think we will get that straight, I would say to Mr. Henning Hylllested. Nor do I believe that this will replace public transport in any way whatsoever. What would we do with all these cars? Whether they can drive themselves, they have to be on the roads after all. I think we should somehow try to make all of this work together. What worries me most is that we are actually empowering the office and the ministers to draw up all these rules which are now to be in this area, without any political influence whatsoever. I could be a little concerned about that. One of the things that I will certainly do something about in committee is also that we should have the political opportunity to follow this development and the attempts that are now being made. Then we will have the opportunity to follow it very closely and evaluate it thoroughly. I think it is important to follow it closely, because I think it is a development that can suddenly go very fast. Then it is important that we can see ourselves in it. We're looking forward to this. It is an exciting future that opens up for us, and of course the Danish People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140852	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140856	It's kind of on the same street. Does it not at all concern the rapporteur that the new draft legislative proposal, as I read it, is somewhat more fluent than it was in the original draft, where there was an objective responsibility for breach of the traffic law, which was in the case of the licence holder? So there was no doubt about where responsibility and therefore also responsibility for any compensations etc. was placed in the case of an experiment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140935	Well, I kind of think it's covered by this bill, too. But otherwise, I fully agree with Mr. Henning Hyllested in that road safety and safety in general is, of course, something that must be paramount. We must then try to get this done in committee and clarify the requirements for it. Because I fully agree with the questioner that it is important that it is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202140957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141001	In other words, if we read on page 14 of the consultation note, where you comment on all these consultation answers, we can see that a great many of them are just about the issue of who is actually responsible. It is clear that it has not been granted in advance that the authorisation will be used to lay down rules on the objective liability of the licence holder. It's not like it's somewhere else on page 14, generally applicable anymore. That was the point in the original proposal, and that is what I find a little worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141031	I can easily share that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141035	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen, and we welcome the next rapporteur. It's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141043	Thank you, sir. President. After all, the bill we are discussing here involves a change in the traffic law so that it will be possible to experiment with self-propelled cars. I must admit that a few years ago when I was called by a journalist who asked me what the Left really thinks about self-propelled cars, I actually thought it was a joke. I thought he'd be kidding me. But I found out that it was seriously meant, because of course he had looked around the world and seen what was coming. And we just have to say that in the last two years the concept of self-propelled cars has really gone its way. The Transport Committee was in Singapore last autumn and there we tried to drive self-propelled cars and saw that they actually worked and that people could get away with them alive even in a very busy area. So self-propelled cars will certainly be part of the future. That is why, of course, we in Denmark must also be at the forefront of the situation. What we are discussing today does not mean, of course, that we are introducing a general regime and general rules that now can just drive self-propelled cars everywhere. This concerns the possibility of some tests in controlled forms. A number of demands are being made when the tests outlined in the draft law are authorised, namely that the cars are approved, also according to EU standards, that the test lines are clearly defined, that there is an independent assessment of road safety in the actual test of an assessment, in order to remain in the legal language, and then there will also be some insurance conditions in relation to the individual tests to be considered. Clearly, a specific position must be taken on each experiment: if it is the responsibility of the holder of the licence, the driver has a responsibility under which conditions the driver has a responsibility, etc.? This will be dealt with in detail in each case, with the involvement of the Ministry of Justice, as stated in the consultation note, for of course some have naturally been involved in the hearings. Two municipalities have shown an interest in carrying out the experiment. It is Vesthimmerland Municipality, where it is in home care that you take a great interest in this and see some perspectives in what you would like to have tested, and this is the municipality of Aalborg. I'm sure more will come and be interested in these attempts. Some have then asked in the debate: why do you not go further? Why don't you move on to a full arrangement and create a framework for self-propelled cars? There I think it is very sensible that we should take that step by step, and this is an important first step, where we are now beginning to have some experience with self-propelled cars in Denmark. I have also noted that our transport industry, the road haulage industry, is interested in such experiments. There is no doubt that there are great prospects in this, especially in view of the fact that we now have a serious shortage of lorry drivers in Denmark. It was interesting when we saw an attempt last year with four trucks driving a convoy across Funen and Zealand, where there was only one driver in the front, and then the three rear followed. There will also be an opportunity to gain more experience with such things. So this is really good. It's a look into the future. I noticed that the Socialist rapporteur did a little bit about what is going to be the future and what is not going to be the future. There I have in Jutland-Posten been out saying something about that asphalt is certainly part of the future. There is no doubt about that, and it is supported by the fact that we will only have green cars in the future. Cars are not black in the future; they are completely green. We get plenty of self-propelled cars when we look a decade or two ahead. We get plenty of high-class bus offers - bus rapid transit • that will also run on asphalt. That's why it's part of building that shines the past. This does not mean that there should be no trains, and that does not mean that there should be no bicycles, on the contrary. We have invested a lot of billions of dollars in railways just in the last 10 years, a lot of billions. So, of course, there must be plenty of trains in the future • even more than today. What I am talking about is when we need traffic billions in the future, from now on. Then it is clear that we have to put more weight on the roads, both because we have some bottlenecks around which we have to deal with, but also because a large part of the transport of the future will run on asphalt, for example. These self-propelled cars. So all in all, this is a very positive proposal, where Denmark takes a step into the future, where we get the opportunity to be at the forefront, where we get the opportunity to be a pioneer country, because we start testing this completely new technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141537	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141544	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself touched on this, for I have also noticed the announcement made by the rapporteur of the Left, both in the Jyllands-Posten, that trains should be a thing of the past, and in the Engineer that one could imagine that the self-propelled cars would take over completely. As I also said from the platform, this is something that we very much disagree with, namely that one should be replaced by the other. But I would just like to ask you a few questions about what the rapporteur has been out to say: how does the rapporteur think there should be room on the roads we have? We know there will be more tribulation, among other things. in Copenhagen, so if you do not invest in public transport, does the rapporteur not think that there will be some challenges in relation to all those people who need to transport themselves if we stop investing in our public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141636	But now the Socialist rapporteur again distorted what was said in Jyllands-Posten. I actually know, because I said it myself, and I myself wrote the speech that was in the same newspaper. Trains don't belong to the past. It is shining, building new rails that belong to the past. After all, we can continue to use all available traffic billions and it is a scarce resource to build rails, but now we have to have a period some years ahead, where we are betting on the roads, because we have so many hanging lots on the roads, among other things. Some hanging parties which the Social Democrats have also helped to create, in the sense that together we have launched some EIA studies in which we have an obligation to get things beyond the ramp, if I may say so. So trains don't belong in the past. There's got to be a lot of trains in the future, so don't draw that picture. It is just as far as the weight of investment in the future is concerned that we need to invest on asphalt. And it fits like a foot in the booth with this, because these cars are going to run on asphalt. They're not gonna run on rails. And the advantage of this is that safety, once the self-propelled car is fully developed, will be so good that they can drive much closer. They do not have to keep the distance that is needed now, because the human response is what it is. The problem doesn't have self-propelled cars. Once fully developed, they will be very safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141751	After all, I am not the one who is putting words into the mouths of the rapporteur. It may then be Jyllands-Posten, but the headline is: "Left believes that the train belongs to the past." That is what I am referring to, and therefore it is good to clarify that the Left does not think that we should quite scrap the trains we have been driving around and that very many commuters and passengers also use every day. But we also know that if we are to have trains running on time, which must be attractive, it requires investment, and that is why I am really sorry to hear if the Left stands on the platform today and cancels that we should invest in rail traffic in Denmark in the future. Then it may well be that trains are running, but we know that investment is needed if it is to be able to continue. Then I do not think the rapporteur has replied as to whether we will solve the problems of congestion if we imagine investing alone in asphalt and therefore in self-propelled technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141843	Well, it's a boat-and-a-boat, as I've said several times. Of course, we need to get something out of the huge investments we have made in the railway, and many of the work is being done now. Take as an example the railway between Copenhagen and Ringsted, which will give the entire rail system a huge boost. We are in complete agreement on this; there must be plenty of trains. And yes, it was just a headline in Jyllands-Posten, which probably didn't quite hit the dial, because when you go down and read the article, you'll see that it's shiny we're talking about. It is of no use that the Social Democrats and others continue to say that we need to spend all the money on rails and that we need to spend the money on light rails in all directions from the big cities. So we have a very large part of Denmark where there will be no rails and they need cars. Let me take a place like Bornholm where there are not many railways in the future. They really need the car over there, and so it is in large parts of the part of the country that I come from, namely Jutland. So it's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. But we just have to say that now comes a period when it is the turn of cars and asphalt to get some investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141938	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202141943	I have to admit that now I'm confused. I don't even know if I can call it on a higher level: Skinner belongs to the past, but the trains don't, we need many more trains. It just doesn't add up, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Trains run on rails, as you know, and if more trains are required on the existing rail network, then call it what you want to invest in the rail network, among other things. what the Train Fund DK is expressing. That is why it may be surprising, but I can understand it on the basis of the arguments put forward by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen now shows that the opportunity is then taken to cut Banedanmark's budgets and for that matter also steals money from DSB's contract payment. But the thing about the self-propelled cars requires asphalt, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen loves. But has the rapporteur not realized at all that precisely the self-propelled cars • Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said a little about it in and, in itself, does not require more asphalt, that the self-propelled cars means to a large extent that you can use the car park far better and far more efficiently, and that the most likely scenario is not that people change their cars into one, but that, on the contrary, there will probably be a dispute with the ownership of cars that we know today. And it will actually mean dramatically fewer cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142125	I don't believe that there are dramatically fewer cars coming. As I said, there is a very large part of our country where you are completely dependent on the car. This applies to passenger cars, and this applies to lorries. The new will just be that they run on completely green propellants in the future, and the new will be that some of them will become self-propelled, perhaps even quite a lot, when we look further in the future. That is why we need more asphalt, and when Henning Hyllested mentions the Togfonden DK, one just has to note that out of the 28.5 billion there. kr., which some struck out with their arms and said there was, is the 15 billion. kr. vanished into thin air because oil prices have fallen. That means that there are 13.5 billion. kr. Back up. Then you can have different views about what you want to spend that money on, and there we just say clearly and straight from the left that we give priority to cleaning up some of the road hanging parties that we have. Let me mention such a stretch as that across Funen, where it is clear to everyone that we need to loosen up more and build a few extra lanes. It's just one example. Let's clean up those hangings. Then, of course, we'll have to run trains on those rails we've invested so many billions of dollars in the last few years. There is room for more trains, and the trains we have to bet on in the future are some that can run on time and do not break down in contrast to some of the equipment we unfortunately have to deal with now, because there were some red parties that in 1999 penetrated the acquisition of IC4.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142235	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142240	Yeah, and there were some blue parties that let this whole circus of IC4 continue and continue for a decade, but let's just leave it alone. After all, it is funny that the rapporteur mentions the hardship on West Funen. If there's any place on West Funen that's crowded, it's the track over West Funen. It is currently operating with overcapacity. This is a fact that has been known for several years. Therefore, through the Togfonden DK, a new track will be built over West Funen to make room for the trains that drive there in order for them to be able to drive there in good time, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. But that is not what should be invested in, because it is new rails. But how are we going to push through the trains that run over West Funen and that run with delays today, at least to some extent, if we do not want to extend the track to the capacity that is needed? I can also mention the problems south of Aarhus, where rail traffic is also sanding. Therefore, Togfonden DK also operates here with a new track to be able to get space for the trains running there at all today. What's being said from the platform today, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, is simply not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142351	Well, it is well known that Enhedslisten does not care much about where the money is to come from. When Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions a new railway south of Aarhus, the reality is that no one has found another penny. It lies in what is called Phase 2 of the Train Fund DK, as I understand it, and there is no funding at all, so let us not shoot at each other with it. We are just saying frankly on the Left side: we have a traffic growth on the road network that is quite large. That's because the wheels are more busy here in Denmark, and it's good for all of us. This shows that we will have more prosperity and thus more prosperity at some point. But we have some hangings on the road network we need to finish. That's where we put the weight in the future, and we'd like to take a break with the railroad. So there is no contradiction between saying that we will run by train on the rails we have invested in and which are being laid, and so to say that from now on and some years on we are going on asphalt. So don't twist what we're saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142443	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142451	Thank you. You get all nervous if Tivoli is to expand their rails to the old cars in there, even if you can do that by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. But no rails were said, and that was actually what made me stand up here. Is it the position of the Left if, for example, the City of Copenhagen or other municipalities in the metropolitan area have an interest in extending their metro, which therefore requires rails, or if you are interested in extending one of the S-tracks, or if you are interested in extending the easy track in Aarhus or Odense compared to the existing one, that it should simply not be possible for the City of Copenhagen, Aarhus Municipality, the surrounding municipalities in the Copenhagen area, compared to what it is like today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142536	No, that is not the position of the Left. What we are talking about here are the state capitals, which are unfortunately a scarce resource. Now, of course, we all hope that in the spring, when we talk about a longer-term economic plan, there will be a very large bag of money for infrastructure. That's the money we're talking about. What does the state need the money for? And that is where we say clearly that we are giving priority to roads now. If the municipality of Århus or the municipality of Copenhagen wants to expand local public transport, as we will certainly not hinder that. It is a local political decision and we have respect for local self-government. I'm just saying clearly that we don't see that the state can afford it. You have to make a clear priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142620	Sir. Kaare Dybvad, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142623	As the rapporteur knows, the state is the co-owner of the company that operates and expands the metro in Copenhagen, and the state has co-financing the light rail in Aarhus. Does this mean that a single government crown is over for the expansion of public transport, for example. easy track or S-bane, which is the responsibility of the state, or metro, if it is to the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142651	Well now the state is not the co-owner of the light track in Aarhus. We grant a grant for the construction of the track, and then the state withdraws and it is a purely local regional company operating locally. So there are no obligations on the state. And we have clearly stated from the outset that we are pleased to have given a start-up aid to the light rails that are now being built, and we stand by that. It is an agreement back in 2009, a broad political agreement. We've also been happy to help the subway get started, and now we're getting a city ring. However, we have not promised anywhere that we will add state crowns to the further expansion of the metro, because it is therefore a scarce resource and we need to clean up the roadside hanging parties, which is what many social democratic mayors around the country are also calling for. We have listened to them, just as we have listened to many left-wing mayors, and therefore we would like to have a little tidyed up in the roadside hanging parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142737	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142741	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen brought me a very happy news, namely that we would almost fall into money this spring, because now the government comes with a big bag of money. I think that is welcome, because since the change of government we have been hit by a fixed ceiling, and it is said that what you hear at rumour level there should be money in the box. But we cannot really spend any money, because there is both a ceiling in the European Union and a ceiling at home. Now I think it is gratifying that the government is telling us that there is going to be a big bag of money. But can we use them as well? And how big is that bag of money anyway? This, of course, falls a little outside the scope of the bill itself, but I just think it's a little interesting to ask about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142843	Well, I think it's a good debate. We're gonna get into the corners a little bit, and thank you for that. The answer to that is that among other things. depends on the Danish People's Party. That then depends on what reforms we are going to make and how much money we can free up for infrastructure. It's an overall plan. And, by the way, these are negotiations that go well beyond the low level that we transport rapporteurs are at. It's on the big blade, if I may say so. I haven't been here promising money. I said that we hope that in the spring, when we make a global economic plan, there will be some money available for infrastructure. But it depends on the parties. The Left does not have so many seats that we can decide on it alone. It depends entirely on the parties' willingness to make reforms that free some money, so that we can afford to make some highly profitable investments in our infrastructure. Unlike rail projects, many of these road projects have a very high return of over 10%. for some.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142926	I would remind you, gentlemen, that the proposal is about self-propelled motor vehicles. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202142938	Thank you for that, President. I shall be very brief, but it is also a question of making room for all these self-propelled cars. Now it wasn't me who gave the ball up compared to maybe getting a little out in the corners, out there, where there's no rails. But it's a good self-acknowledgment that the Left can't run it through alone. And then I just want to say, because now it was played a little over to the Danish People's Party that if it's about us all working until we're 88 years old, then there's no millions to spend here in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143004	I do not wish to anticipate those negotiations, but I fully agree with the principle that it is good to be able to count to 90 in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143008	The questioner? He doesn't have any more. Sorry, it was the shift here that did it. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There's no more. Then we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143021	It is undoubtedly true that we have got away from what the legislative proposal itself is about. It is, of course, because the Left has basically not seen the light and has not understood the real perspectives on the issue of self-propelled cars. I would say that the Enhedslisten is in principle in favour of the bill. We think it is important to help develop tomorrow's technology, and we are actually looking forward to the huge revolution of self-propelled cars in our view. It is not the technical aspect that is important, because it should, in fact, come more or less on its own. Of course it does not, because some people are developing it and it will be refined along the way. No, the upheaval, as I mentioned in my questions, will be the whole question of ownership of the cars. Why, though, should you own a car if you have an app or can call a car over an app if you need it and leave it when you get there, after which the self-propelled car can be called by others? This, of course, means a far, far better use of the car park, less congestion, less space consumption, less asphalt, I would say to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, less need for bypasses and tunnels, e.g. Of course, this also means less pollution, in addition to the electric and green nature of the cars in question. A particularly important issue for Enhedslisten is who is actually responsible under such an experimental scheme? Who is responsible for the trial system, who is responsible when the accident is out, who is to pay for the damage caused by a self-propelled car in an attempt to cause things, be it other cars, bicycles, road equipment, etc., and on people? Not least, the latter can have serious consequences for the person concerned, including considerable harm and compensation for loss of earning capacity, etc. etc. In our view, there must be no slightest doubt as to who is responsible and who should pay. I understand that there is both a question of liability and criminal liability. I hope that the Minister may be able to clarify what it actually looks like. We are very concerned about the change that the draft law has undergone in the light of the consultation responses. The Enhedslisten was actually very pleased with the relatively strict criminal liability, including the objective criminal liability, for breach of the Road Traffic Code imposed on the permit holder of an experimental scheme precisely because it was an experiment. Then we believe that the licence holder must be accountable at all levels in such an attempt and for all those involved. Some have then stated that objective responsibility would be a barrier to applicants. I would just like to say in modern Danish: So be it. We're talking, among other things. whether seriously injured and, at worst, dead. They should not be seen as throwing balls in a monkey throwing about responsibility and guilt. However, in our opinion, this will be easy after the so-called adjustments to the legislative proposal, which have taken place after the hearings have come in. Now, in each case, responsibility must be taken into account, and this must be done from experiment to experiment. In our view, the objective responsibility of the licence holders is now so diluted that it will be a discussion to identify the person responsible in a specific accident. I have referred to page 14 that it says that objective liability is no longer generally applicable, and it is not given in advance that the authorisation to lay down rules on objective liability will actually be used for that. The driver of a car in an experimental scheme is now being placed at a much greater risk, in our opinion, of being held responsible. Did he have time to intervene? In calculating the time that has elapsed, concepts such as reasonable time and a shorter period of time are used. What's that in seconds? We believe that far too far-reaching consideration has been given to possible applicants for an experimental scheme and too far-reaching a framework has been laid down which provides the basis for interpretation. In our opinion, a fight is being waged here about insurance, that is to say, who should pay. We can see nothing but that it is consumers and injured people who will be the losers. That is why we are calling for a very detailed committee procedure in which the Minister of Transport is present in the Committee on Transport for discussions, preferably informally, on the draft law with officials and external actors, for that matter, round table talks, as we call it. What I am talking about is, in fact, a little like what we used in connection with the drone proposal, where we had a large number of informal discussions and where the officials also took part. I thought that was a good way to do it. It is also in line with the Bureau Conference, which we had recently, that this form can also be used in the committees. It will, of course, be time-consuming, but for us it is not crucial when the draft law comes into force. This has to be thoroughly worked out and fully illuminated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143555	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143604	The proposal before us will allow controlled and secured experiments on self-propelled vehicles on defined experimental lines and for limited time periods. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the leap that has taken place in relation to the technology of self-propelled cars opens up incredibly exciting perspectives for innovative development on many fronts, both for the private sector and for the public sector. I would like to say that I personally share Enhedslisten's vision, which we have just heard from Parliament's speaking chair, about completely new ownership, and you can order a car via an app when you have to have transported either yourself or your children elsewhere. Yes, who knows, perhaps, as I think Mrs Lea Wermelin also mentioned, we can also replace all public transport in the future with self-propelled cars, and these are all exciting thoughts. It was not so many years ago that the idea of fully self-propelled cars, as Mrs Lea Wermelin also said, was pure science fiction. When you have already seen some incredibly good results in experiments with self-propelled cars abroad, it is natural that we in Denmark also try to adapt the legislation so that you can also help develop the technology at home. It is to be expected that even when technology is fully developed, it will take several years to fully implement it in our society. However, to start by opening up controlled and secure experimental schemes, we in the Liberal Alliance think that is a very good first step and we can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202143811	Thank you. L 120 is a proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Code and authorizing the licensing of tests on self-propelled motor vehicles. For the alternative, it is of course extremely interesting and very important that we in Denmark take part in this development and contribute to developing the technology for many, many reasons. I think that the various rapporteurs have given a good account of the challenges posed by the legislative proposal. I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested has some important points to take up in the committee work. I do not believe, however, that people's safety will be fundamentally ignored. It serves neither the economy nor the citizens nor the development of technology. But, of course, we need to be obsessed with what the challenges are with this responsibility. The engineering association, Ida, is talking about a saving of 20 billion, and that is only with level 3 of self-propelled cars per year. years, when we have it phased in in Denmark. The potential there is is extremely interesting. Tesla then says that within the next 3-6 months they are actually ready with Level 3 cars, so maybe it will go a lot faster than we expect, and therefore it is of course also necessary that we do processed now. And then I agree that we have to open up, so that Vesthimmerland and Aalborg Municipalities can get started. It is also important from a shared economic perspective. Once again, Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur has said that there are some good elements in terms of making use of the car park there is. We also believe that getting these self-propelled vehicles going will provide much better accessibility. At the Mobility Service we see today that the platforms are quite silo-thinking when we think of UbiGo, Mycicero, GoMore. They don't talk, and we really need to have this discussion about how we help these platforms to talk and exploit the technology, because if we don't, it will be Amazon and Google, and it will be all the big capital funds that will own our mobility in Denmark, and we in the alternative are not happy about that. So the wider discussion on how to use technology to develop our society, mobility challenges in rural areas, etc., we also need to start. The perfect scenario with a self-propelled car in my optics as transport rapporteur will be that I walk out of my door at Østerbro and get into a car and get the work concentrated and constantly while I'm being driven to Aarhus, where I go out of the car again to the company I'm now working for. This will be a wonderful example of how we can optimise our labour force. The problem is, I'm not getting any exercise. I don't get to see any people, I don't get to contribute to any community. So everything that public transport does, everything that these stop and go stations do at our collective transport hubs, is not going to be used. So besides having an extremely boring life because I only see my apartment and my place of work, I don't get any exercise either, and I don't get a cultural insight into the society I'm actually part of. That is why, of course, we do not believe that we can replace public transport by self-propelled cars, but it must be, as the SF rapporteur also talks about, both and. I look forward to reducing pollution, I look forward to having less noise in cities, I look forward to increasing mobility in rural areas, and I am also looking forward to being invited into conciliation circles such as the Togfonden DK and the Green Fund to talk further about how we can use the technology, perhaps even in our forthcoming taxi negotiations. But the alternative clearly supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144239	There is one brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144245	I very much agree with the remark that it is far more fun to drive collectively than it is to drive a car, and it will also apply to self-propelled cars if you sit alone in them. I very, very much agree with that. This must be an invitation to those who do not use public transport to do so. My question relates to the comments made by the Alternative about what is really affecting ownership... the fear that some big capital funds, some big companies, are putting themselves on this technology, and the desire that, if I may put it that way, you work across instead of having this silo thinking that we know today. I fully agree with working across so that it becomes a commonly used means of accessibility for everyone to use it. But what does the alternative really mean in practice? Have you ever thought about it? Should the state, the municipalities or the government, for example? Into to control it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144349	Thank you for the question. After all, there are different methods of dealing with the sharing economy and the Mobility Service, and the dream scenario for me would be that, like we have a mobile phone, where we have a subscription that includes data, calls and text messages, we had the same kind of subscription in relation to transport. This means that you have a card that allows you to ride a bike a little, could take an electric car, could take a train or a bus, but there is not necessarily any ownership associated with it • it is simply a service that you have bought just like with a mobile subscription. Here we can easily see that the state can go in and facilitate. I don't know if the government should have ownership. In other words, there are some different models where there is a monopoly on it, but it may also be something where these technologies and tenders are linked up on platforms, and those platforms need to be regulated, and there are many in Brussels, at EU level, who are currently working to implement this mindset on co-driving and sharing economy, circular economy. And this is actually where we in Denmark have to grab hold and say that we need to get started right away with looking at our legislation, so it's possible to rethink these platforms. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144502	I certainly think these are exciting thoughts. The experimental schemes we are now authorizing may be very much opposed to the development of the technique, but I do not really think that is as exciting as they can develop everywhere, and they can be allowed to do so. The exciting thing is, in fact, the thoughts of the Alternative and ourselves on how this is to be organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144527	Thank you. The reason why we are making the legislation to open up that it should not only be silo thinking is precisely to strengthen developments in Denmark, so that it is not these capital funds that sit on our mobility. Does that mean the state can go in and take ownership? We do not know that, because this is the first time we have the technology, the knowledge and these platforms that result in platform economies that continue to flourish, but it is at least right now that we need to have the discussion with Brussels and the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144600	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144610	Thank you. It is fantastic that you can stand here and be in a debate where we get into the hooks of how much asphalt we should have in the future, how the rails should be placed, what insurance liability is. I would like to take the liberty of following a more Jysk and cautious principle and say that the future must show that. I'm afraid I can't see into the future. If I could, I don't quite think I was standing here. However, one thing is certainly certain: it will change our infrastructure significantly and perhaps more significantly than we dare to discuss here today. That is why I think it is with some awe that we are following developments with these driverless cars, because when we see the cars for the first time, we are wondering whether we dare to get into them; what is to happen; who is to control it; what if it goes wrong, that is to say, all the consequences it can have, know that you are not in control? You do not let go of control in the same way as when you get into the Metro, or if you sit down and are a passenger in a car where you sit on the passenger seat. You let go of control to technology, and that is where it is essential that we catch all the places where technology could get off. In the Radical Left, we are very concerned about the future and progress. The driverless cars we believe are the future vehicle. For us, it is very important to identify all the safety challenges that will be; all the traffic conditions that a driverless car can bring about. It is precisely this: how will this change our public transport, and how will it change our private traffic? We need to adapt Danish traffic to the driverless cars, and we also need to address the obligations and responsibilities that driving a driverless car entails. I see that there are some exciting opportunities in developing our country's infrastructure, especially where public transport stops or where you cannot afford to buy a car. There, I think, drivers' cars can be an important answer. I am also sensitive to the fact that important actors give the proposal broad support in the consultation responses, just as many of the answers are rightly focused on the role of this assessor and on the safety of the cars. This is the same focus that we have in the Radical Left, in addition to trying out the fantastic new opportunity it is for us to have it introduced into Denmark. We therefore believe that it is only a natural development that we change the traffic law and that we allow testing and, above all, follow the development of the driverless cars in Denmark. With all the knots that may be, we need to follow this closely in the committee's work and therefore the Radical Left will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144909	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Since no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202144919	Thank you. The Traffic Act is clear about the driver's role when driving a car with self-propelled functions: the car is allowed to drive itself, but as a driver you must have exactly the same attention to the traffic as when driving normally. With the traffic law's demands for an active driver, automation can make the journey more comfortable for the driver and automation can help make traffic safer. However, the requirements of the Road Traffic Act to the driver restrict the innovation we can achieve through the use of self-propelled cars, buses and lorries. It also makes very good sense, on the other hand, that traffic law protects citizens from immature technologies which can be dangerous to us when we are in traffic. This is the right balance between precisely the two considerations that we would like to strike with the proposal for a pilot scheme for self-propelled cars. On the one hand, we want to maintain control and, on the other hand, we want to open up new opportunities. It is relatively simple to imagine how practical it could be to get the car to drive the children to swimming or football. And there are companies abroad who firmly believe that the taxi of the future is self-propelled. In general, however, it is far too early to determine where and how we are going to notice the effects of automation in the transport sector. Against this backdrop, we are proposing an experimental system which could serve as a basis for various experiments on self-propelled cars. The pilot scheme will open up controlled tests on self-propelled cars. The bill shows what we mean by a controlled experiment: the cars in the experiment must be approved, the test lines must be precisely defined in advance, and there must be an assessor who agrees with road safety. However, there is a limit to how much control we can put down over an experiment. As with all other technology, there will always be a risk of technical defects in the case of self-propelled cars. The careful authorisation procedure shall minimise this risk and possible adverse effects. On the other hand, with self-propelled cars, we can avoid human error much better. It is the balance between the consequences of new technical errors and the consequences of avoiding human error, which will determine how fast progress towards self-propelled cars can be made. Overall, I believe that the government's proposal for an experimental scheme has found the right balance between security and innovation. It will provide a good framework for Denmark to become a place where companies and authorities test and show what self-propelled cars can be used for as technology becomes ready. Finally, I would like to thank once again for the positive comments which I hope will also be maintained during the work of the committee to the extent that a broad majority can be formed for the legislative proposal. Then I would like to add a few comments to what Mr. Henning Hyllested has raised about responsibility: Who is responsible? It is very simple and not as mysterious as I think Mr. Henning Hyllested has made it in this debate. When you are allowed to run an experiment on self-propelled cars, liability is always the responsibility of the licence holder. Punishment is also always the responsibility of the licence holder in cases where the car is actually self-propelled. However, when we open up that it can be in a different way in defined cases, it is because we can well imagine that in some experiments, that is, as part of the experiment, cars will be included, which we already know today, that is, with the self-driving functions we know today, where the driver is committed to watching the traffic and is committed to having his hands on or close to the steering wheel. They can be part of the experimental arrangements and when it is the case that the car is driven by a driver • e.g. the cars we already know, which can stay within the stripes and can keep distance from the front, etc. etc. That is already the case today. However, where there are going to be changes, there is where we might be allowed to • if someone is applying for it, and if they can meet the requirements of the applications • that the driver does not have to pay attention to the traffic all the time, or that there does not have to be a driver present in the car, but instead has to come to an accident if there are problems. In these cases, the permit holder will be liable for the penalty, but if there are parts of the experiment where the driver is sitting with the wheel in his hand in a car with a self-propelled technology that we already have on the roads today, it is the driver who is responsible for the penalty. That must be the case, and I do not think it can be otherwise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145522	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145526	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about the discussion that we had just now and which I also raised on the platform, because there are very good prospects for self-propelled cars, but we are also just concerned that the Minister will then share his party-wide view as to whether self-propelled technology can replace public transport. So it is really a question of what Mr. Villum Christensen says to Jyllands-Posten that the train belongs to the past and we must therefore have a paradigm change, and that today we plan for the past because trains are so expensive and inflexible. Does the Minister of Transport agree with his party colleague on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145613	Yes, it takes me to guess what the future will bring, and I am generally a little nervous about doing that. I do not know whether self-propelled cars will be so popular and can completely replace sections of public transport that in future they will crowd out sections of public transport. I just can't guess. I note that here and now, and especially in the major cities of Denmark, we need public transport to take the pressure off the roads, because otherwise they would be too heavy on individual traffic, and I think that is the only thing I need to concentrate on right now in this debate on self-propelled cars. What happens in 20, 30 and 50 years, I dare not venture to guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145708	The reason I ask is that it is interesting both for us as a party, but also for all the Danes out there who use public transport every day, if you have a transport minister who is not willing to plan long-term plans for public transport as well, but says that now we are starting something with self-propelled cars, and then it will all go together. We know that we have a political responsibility for long-term planning, and we also know that there will be an international increase in tribulation, even in spite of this technology. So to what the Minister concluded by saying that it was perhaps in 50 years' time and so on, I would say that, as I understand it, the Minister says that there will continue to be investment in public transport in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145751	The government supports the investments in public transport which are due to take place in the years to come, and this is mainly about electrification of the railway. It is also about a new signalling system on the railroad, and we also support the new Metro Cityring, which is being built. So in the years to come there is support from the government for the public transport expansions that are in pipeline. Then the railway fund parties have a phase 2 for further investment in rail traffic, and the government does not support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145829	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145834	Thank you to the Minister for answering some of the questions I raised during the debate and also in my rapporteur's speech. I understand that we need to distinguish between liability, where I see that it is always the holder of the licence, that is to say, a kind of objective responsibility in that area, while it is different in terms of criminal liability. There it is determined from experiment to experiment, as I understand it. I hope, of course, that we will also be able to have a debate on it during the committee procedure. But I'm just wondering if in the real world you can keep this apart. If a self-propelled car crashes a cyclist, there is some form of compensation to be paid. Is it the licence holder, even if it was led by a driver at the time, as it has to be said, had responsibility for not talking about the grey area that is, from a driver going from passive to suddenly grabbing the wheel and driving the car?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145951	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202145953	Well, there should actually be no doubt that the way the government is proposing here is the right way to do it. Because if you are dealing with a car where there is no driver in the car, it is of course the licence holder who is responsible for what that car is doing. If, on the other hand, a car that is only self-propelled at a level we know from cars on the roads today is already included in an experiment, and then there is a driver sitting in a Tesla-like car with Tesla-like functions and suddenly hitting the wheel and driving into a cyclist on purpose, because it is his mother-in-law, or what one can imagine, that driver should be free of charge, and should it then be the permit holder who has applied for tests to have been sent to prison for driving down a mother-in-law? That's not fair. So, of course, this must be the way the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150055	Well, I quite agree with that example, there is no doubt. But I'm just thinking that this is an experiment, and there's someone who's applied for permission for the experiment. The experimenter, that is to say the licence holder, must be responsible somewhere for what a possible driver, who is allowed to drive in his experimental vehicles, is doing. I fully agree that if this is done in this way and is deliberately and can be clarified, I do not think it should fall to the licence holder either. But there are those situations where you just go from being passively transported in a self-propelled car to being asked to grab the wheel and do something, and in the confusion that may arise, you get to knock down a cyclist or not get to intervene quickly enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150146	But that is because we are talking about self-propelled technology at what we call level 2, which is already on the roads today, for example. in a Tesla where the car can just stay within the stripes and keep a distance from the front, and where it is the driver's duty to remain fully aware of the traffic and continue to have full control of the steering wheel, but where the steering wheel can sort of just follow around while it slides through the hands. In such a situation, it must of course be the case that the driver is responsible if he or she suddenly, by mistake or intentionally, drives into a soft road user.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150229	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150231	Thank you. When I ask for a brief comment, it is because Mrs Lea Wermelin again came to conjure up some wrong contradictions. For example: I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is not true that the majority of public transport in Denmark is actually driven on asphalt, namely on buses. That was one question. The second question concerns the attempt to conjure up a contradiction between self-propelled cars and public transport, which was like the second message. Does the Minister not agree that self-propelled cars could very well become an important part of public transport when we look 10, 15, 20 years ahead and that it might even make possible some completely new forms of public transport that are more energy-efficient and much more service-minded towards citizens? Then there are some contradictions when it comes to the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150330	I agree that public traffic on asphalt is more than public traffic on rail. We are watching, for example. also often the taxis as part of the public traffic because they are available to us all, even though they are owned by private people. Then I agree that what is likely to come, which the Alternative and Enhedslisten have also talked about here today, with some forms of sharing car schemes, for example. that you can go together for a self-propelled car and then use it with an app etc., also have the character of some form of public transport, or in this case perhaps hire cars that drive and maybe even pick up more along the way etc. So it's fluid. What is just going to apply is that this new form of public transport will probably be more adapted to individual needs than the public transport we know primarily today, where there are very many people in a very, very large public transport unit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150438	Thank you for those answers. I very much agree with that. The second question I would like to ask is, of course, the question of trying to present such a contradiction between public transport and carism. Does the Minister not agree that in large parts of Denmark people are completely dependent on the car, while in other parts of Denmark public transport is crushingly strong, for example. where there are many people living in a rather limited area? So those artificial contradictions you're trying to conjure up and that it's like a car train are really fake, and it's a boat and it's needed. However, when we talk forward-looking investments, it could be very good that we now have a period of a little focus on the roads, because there we have a backlog.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150522	I fully agree with the comments made by Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is coming along, and I also fully agree that where we have the greatest delay at the moment, there is on the roads where too little money has been set aside to ensure that the roads can be matched by the tribulation there is. After all, there are many places in the country where we have very high socio-economic gains if we invest in roads that clearly tell us that this needs more than so much else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150548	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150551	Thank you. I was also just inspired by this debate on the balance between road transport and rail, because I was also a little shocked recently when I saw Mr. Villum Christensen says the track is out of date. We already have self-propelled wagons in public transport. In the metro here in town we are in full swing with what is being discussed here today. But I just wanted to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not see a continued role for the track in all its forms, including in the very long term, and that is where I want, for example. point out that every year more than 100 million people use S-trains for a total distance of 1 billion. km per year on the S-train network, and daily there are 350,000 trips by S-train. If they're all going to separate their own car, we're gonna have some real trouble, aren't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150654	I believe that the direction in traffic is opposed to people having their individual needs more satisfied than they are today, for example. I believe that there is going to be more traffic on the roads. There are several people who are being transported on the roads, not necessarily in more cars but more people while the need to be at a station some distance away from its residence at a certain time, because the train departs from there, I think will become increasingly less popular. But of course it depends on whether we have found solutions on the roads and that the self-propelled cars have contributed to solutions that prevent congestion. Because in times of distress, shines are very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150811	It sounds like we have a little the same understanding, and I am glad to hear that. I am thinking that we have some main lines on the network in Denmark, which are violently and heavily used. Perhaps they are the backbone of the system and we must continue to invest in preserving them, and then you can imagine that road transport, especially with self-propelled cars, will be connected to this network. But it would be a shame to me if we downgrade the entire network, so that we end up having to take the long stretches of a self-propelled car as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150852	We should not bow rails, at least not as long as they are needed, so much can be said. If, one day in a future far away from here, everyone will want to be picked up in a small self-propelled minibus that they have ordered via an app, rather than going up to the S-train station or another railway station, then we can then find out whether the time has elapsed from the railways. But it's not yet, it's happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150926	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202150930	I would like to start by welcoming the fact that we are agreed on this point that experiments on self-propelled cars have to be started. It is an exciting and promising development. But now, when we talk about the fact that the Liberal Alliance has announced that the time of trains is over, that it is over and that it is now time for a paradigm shift, I would remind the Minister of the debate we had here in Parliament a few weeks ago, when I had the opportunity to ask questions, and where I got into this with the metro station right here, Christianshavn Station. Is it the case that, in the few weeks since then, the minister has gone away from the view that in future there will probably also have to be an extension of the metro network, because it is unrealistic to imagine that all the passengers driving the subway now get on the roads and drive in self-propelled cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151023	After all, we are in the process of expanding the metro network very considerably, and I dare not foresee whether the Liberal Alliance, when it is finished, will support another expansion. Let's see how the new ring works when it gets used. But I think there are great perspectives in a more individualised mode of transport, which does not have to be so that you sit in separate your little bubble, but which certainly may well be that you sit with others in a self-propelled minibus of some kind that drives more individually than a metro train does and where people do not have separate cars, but instead share cars when they need it. And that's why you don't sit in each car, but you might sit in two or three or four or five, and that might lead to less congestion of cars in cities like Copenhagen. Brave new worlds no one can predict about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151130	I fully agree with the Minister that there are huge perspectives in self-propelled cars, including a place like Copenhagen. But I am glad that the Minister is rejecting Mr. Villum Christensen's statement that there is a need for a paradigm change, that the train is past, as the minister says that in such a densely populated city as Copenhagen there is probably a need to extend infrastructure on rails in the form of the metro. Is it not true that I understand that the Minister will not rule out the extension of the subway?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151206	It is true that I do not exclude it, but it is not so true that I say that there is probably a need for it. It may be necessary, but we shall see. Well, things are going really fast, and I dare not predict what we need to expand in 20 years' time I really dare not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151228	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151245	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202151304	The minister stumbles on his way up to the platform Yep, there I was. I strongly recommend that the motion for a resolution be rejected. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, the decision to build a smaller part of the Amager Common goes back a long way. Specifically, it was in 1992 that the Danish Parliament, in connection with the foundation of the Ørestadsselskabet I/S, decided for the first time that Ørestaden should be developed. Later in 2007 in connection with the foundation Metro Company and City & Port, the Danish Parliament decided that City & Port should enter into all the rights and duties of the Ørestads company's area development activities. The law was passed by a broad majority. Only the Enhedslisten voted against. The development of Ørestaden is not new either in Copenhagen's municipal plan. The Ørestaden was mentioned for the first time in a municipality plan in 1991 and since then continuously in 1996, 1997, 2001, 2005, 2009, 2011 and most recently in the Municipality Plan 2015, which states that the area can be expanded from 2012. Secondly, in 1992, when it was decided that the Ørestaden should be developed, it was also decided that an Ørestad Council should be set up, which among other things: should ensure that natural values are taken into account. The Ørestad Council, which among other things: consisted of representatives of the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Free Air Council, had a significant influence on the design of the overall plan for Ørestaden and thus on the fulfilment of the area's natural values. A comprehensive plan for Ørestaden was created in 1995 on the basis of an international architectural competition. The part of the Amager Common originally covered by the Ørestad area was 86 ha. After the involvement of the Ørestad Council, the project area was narrowed to only 18.7 ha, corresponding to only 22 per cent. of the originally intended building field of the Amager Common. At the same time it was agreed on the location of the building field, namely in the corner of Vejlands Allé and Ørestads Boulevard. It was also agreed to free the most valuable wetlands, including Lake Grønjord, from settlement. The Danish Parliament then adopted an amendment to the Ørestadsloven, so that the natural area around the project area and the area around Lake Grønjord cannot be built, but is only used for nature care and the establishment of paths. The project area that we are talking about today and which, among other things, is: The Danish Nature Conservation Association has been involved in recommending, so in order to accommodate nature has already been severely narrowed. In comparison, I can mention that the area is approximately 6%. By Amager Common, approx. 1% by Kalvebod Fælled and ca. 0,5% by Nature Park Amager, which by the way is three times larger than Dyrehaven. So there will remain a very large natural area once the project area has been built. The municipality of Copenhagen has prepared a development plan with recommendations for recreational opportunities and nature care for Amager Fælled and the northern natural area in Ørestaden. The recommendations in this development plan follow the City & Port, of course. City & Port will include: take a number of measures to improve the living conditions of the internationally protected amphibians in order to maintain their ecological function in the area. The measures mainly concern the establishment of new water holes and the purification of existing water holes outside the project area, as well as ensuring a passage between the breeding sites of the amphibians north and south of the project area. As regards protected and rare plants, in the further preparation of the master plan for the area, City & Port will assess how common nature can be an important element in the new urban area. City & Port is therefore very aware of the nature of the project area, including both the protected nature and the rarer nature. Last but not least, of course, there is also the question of the economy. If the area is not developed as provided, it will result in a significant gap in terms of a billion euros in the City & Port's economy. The company City & Port was born with a significant debt of 9.2 billion. kr. The company has thus had to contribute upfront to the financing of the Copenhagen metro, including both the current metro and Cityringen, in the expectation that over the years City & Port can manage the land development of its land and buildings which, through subsequent sales, can help to reduce the debt. After the foundation, the company also had to contribute to the financing of a number of other major infrastructure projects, including the Nordhavn Metro, the South Harbour Metro and the Nordhavn Tunnel. The company currently has a net debt of approx. 15 billion kr. A key condition for reducing this debt is that there is no erosion of the company's property portfolio, including the Ørestad Common Quarter project area. The infrastructure projects that we all already benefit from and benefit from today are therefore largely financed through payments from the City & Port. Payments have been made. In addition, the company has an obligation to finance, where appropriate, a budget reserve of approx. 2 billion kr. concerning the South Harbour Metro. For its part, therefore, the company has a larger debt to be settled through the sale of land as provided by the Folketing. From the outset, there has been a broad majority in favour of this model. Now we also have a joint responsibility to ensure that the framework for debt resolution is maintained. We can't just run off the bill for an hour or so. The solutions mentioned in the motion for a resolution are not even on the ground. Firstly, a gap in the City & Port's economy cannot be easily converted into an extension of the repayment period for the Metro company's debts. These are two separate legal entities. Furthermore, the debt of the Metro Company has not been repaid in 2065 in advance. That does not argue for a further extension. Secondly, the City & Port does not have other areas in Ørestaden for residential purposes except approx. 120,000 floor meters in Ørestad South. In addition, the remaining area of the co-owner, owned by the State and the City of Copenhagen respectively, is protected and therefore cannot be built. In addition, it has been a planned prerequisite for the development of the Ørestaden and the metro that Ørestad Common Quarter is developed within the decided project area at Amager Common to create coherence and unity with the other Ørestaden as well as proximity to the metro connection and the already established metro station Sundby Station. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative mention in their motion for a resolution that it is never too late to reverse a wrong decision. I very much agree with that. But I do not believe that the construction of the Amager Common, including the Ørestad Common Quarter, is a wrong decision and, with the broad majority that has helped to make the decision at the time, I think that I am not alone in that position. The decision on the construction of the Amager Common dates back to the early 1990s, and from the outset the green organisations, the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Free Air Council, have already been involved in the decision on the concrete location of the project area, so that the nature of the Ørestaden was taken into account as much as possible. The concerns that may be about nature in the very limited project area have therefore already been taken into account and addressed once. The motion for a resolution should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152140	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152144	Thank you. I can assure the Minister that if we are to take account of the nature of the Amager Common, we must not build there. It's as simple as that. This isn't just any natural area. It is a truly amazing and unique nature, many thousands of years old, and where there are species that we find very difficult to find elsewhere in Denmark. That is why the 1992 decision is no longer up to date. It makes no sense in 2017 when we look around Denmark, where nature everywhere is impoverished and species are in decline. So I would just like to hear why the Minister has so much objection to us considering whether we should not take care of a completely unique green breathhole close to Ørestad and at least explore other funding options.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152254	That is because I do not agree that it is a completely unique area. It was discussed with green organizations at the time, which parts of the Amager Common were important to preserve, and in cooperation with the green organizations it was agreed that the area now allocated to housing was the least important to preserve. In addition, there are all the other natural values that are all over Amager. But I understand that Enhedslisten has an easy decision, because Enhedslisten was against the metro construction. The Enhedslisten does not want a metro in Copenhagen, which is why it is not, of course, for Enhedslisten to find funding for it. The Enhedslisten may be against funding because Enhedslisten was against a metro in Copenhagen. I think there may be a lot of people who don't know that Enhedslisten was against the subway. The Enhedslisten often appears as advocates of public transport etc., but it was Enhedslisten against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152406	I can recommend to the Minister that he refrain from making such nonsense. What we were opposed to was the financing of the subway by the sale of land. It's as simple as that. And I find it very surprising to hear the Minister say that a 5,000-year-old natural area is not quite unique in a Danish context. What on earth is the Minister basing this on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152438	Among other things: on the attitude that was from the Danish Nature Conservation Association when the decision was made here. Then I must also add something else that people should know about Enhedslisten, namely that while the rest of us are trying to create more housing in Copenhagen, so that more people can live there and so that the prices of housing do not rise so much, the Enhedslisten is consistently opposed every time there are proposals for, for example. to build in height or as here to build on Amager so that more people can enter Copenhagen and live there so that the prices of housing do not rise so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152516	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152517	I think that a great many Copenhageners, including the major parties at Copenhagen City Hall, are actually sorry that you are about to build now on the Amager Common. At least that is how I hear many representatives from the parties. It is regrettable that it should lie in one of the few natural areas in the city, and perhaps particularly regret that it is placed in the most naturally valuable area of the Amager Common. So if we were now to be open to trying to find another solution, so that you can of course pay your bills, would the Minister help to look at lifting the protection in one part, against it being moved down on this piece, which is actually the most valuable in nature? I think everyone who knows something about nature agrees with that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152603	I'm not an expert on nature. If you wanted an expert in nature to stand on this platform, you should probably have taken it with the Minister for the Environment and had a talk about whether this area, which is not protected, is more valuable than other areas that are protected. My starting point is that a decision was taken at that time, and I assume that both the SF, as Mrs Ida Auken, were a member of that time, and the Radical Left, of which Mrs Ida Auken is a member today, voted in favour of that resolution and thought it was a good solution at the time. But it is clear that the more one approaches the start of a project, the clearer the votes against it. So, of course, it is easier to vote for it at the time when you have to find funding than to support it at the later stage. Some people are always against something; that is the way it is, some people are always against something, and then you can get a little light points by speaking the voices by mouth, and that is what I understand the Radical Left is doing in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152709	Now it is 25 years since the first Øresund Act was made, and I think it was 1994, this was changed, and at that time I was 16 years old, and of course one can ask me to answer for what another party has done. I don't think that's the interesting thing today. I think the interesting thing is that we are trying to find a solution. Now the Minister says he doesn't know so much about nature, but I know a little about it, and I listen to those who know a lot about it, and they say that natural vision has changed. Once it was thought that the nature that lived in waterholes was important, but today it has been understood that there are some species on this part of the Amager Common that are not anywhere else in Denmark. It is 5,000 years old nature, and such a type of beach is nowhere else. Now it is the Minister who has the opportunity to move a conservation so that we could actually find a solution that does not hit the spot into the most valuable natural area. Would the Minister not be willing to discuss that part, i.e. whether we can move a conservation to another place, so that we can move the project?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152805	There I must correct Mrs Ida Auken, who knows a lot about nature. The Minister of Transport in Denmark cannot move around on conservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152813	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152816	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for the statement we received about the progress here. It has been many years since it was agreed that we should build here. That is, of course, the whole prerequisite for us to have the metro that most people today support. I would actually like to ask what the Minister also briefly mentioned about the Copenhagen housing market. This is about approx. 260,000 floor meters to be built in this building field. What will it mean for housing prices and the possibility for people who are interested in housing in the Copenhagen area if they simply remove these 260,000 floor meters from the Copenhagen building market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152859	This would clearly mean that housing prices would increase more than they would otherwise have done. That's how I think it's every ten years that's gonna be around. 100,000 new citizens to Copenhagen who want a place to live. If more homes are not built in Copenhagen, this will lead to increased pressure on the housing stock, which will increase prices. Therefore, if it is also to be possible for more or less ordinary people to have a place to live in the city, Copenhagen must keep up with the construction of new homes, otherwise Copenhagen will become a rich man's ghetto, where only the wealthiest can afford to live.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152939	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202152940	Thank you for that answer. I would also like to know whether the Minister is aware either of the Minister's own area or of other areas, that there are development areas in Copenhagen on the Green Square, East Amager, Nordhavn and elsewhere where you can find these 260,000 floor meters and immediately put in instead of the 260,000 floor meters you remove if you adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153005	Well, there are new areas of development in Copenhagen, but we also need them. All we know for sure is that if we take this out, there are the many floor square meters less for citizens to live in Copenhagen, and then prices will rise accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153027	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153030	Thank you. I do not think that the Mayor of Copenhagen can really recognize the picture of Enhedslisten's housing policy that the Minister tried to conjure up. I can urge the Minister to and warmly recommend that the Minister take a meeting with our Transport and Environment Mayor in Copenhagen, because then he will be told that with the population forecast that is for the development of Copenhagen, which everyone recognizes, I do not think it is now 100,000 per month, it is 10 000 per year net, I think it is growing, but it does not correspond to a need of about 45,000 to 50,000 homes, and that need will be notified to the Minister by the Transport and Environment Mayor whether it can be covered on the land laid out on the old industrial harbours, Carlsberg, the harbour, Grønttorvet and industrial grounds. So it can be resolved, and the Minister will be told by Mr. Morten Kabell, it can be solved without including as much as 1 m2 But what I would like to ask the Minister is: why is it so important to prevent an investigation into whether it might be possible to save a 5,000-year-old natural area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153147	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153148	I do not think I said that the population of Copenhagen is increasing by 100,000 per annum. month, I think I said 100,000 every 10 years. Regardless of the fact that there are other areas in Copenhagen, which will then have to be developed later on, some will still be missing at the later stage, even if you take this out and city develop on them earlier. It is therefore an area where housing could be built, which is taken out of the housing stock, so that there is less space available for urban development in Copenhagen. It may be that you just start something before you would otherwise have done it, but it is then just to postpone the torment that comes when you lack an area of many hundreds of thousands of floor square meters, which will not be available for Copenhagen residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153246	I would once again recommend to the Minister to take that meeting with Morten Kabell so that Morten Kabell can have the opportunity to explain to the Minister that the housing needs that will be coming in Copenhagen in the years to come and we agree on what the net growth is, I can hear that can be covered without including as much as a square metre of green area. Then it's just that I have two questions. The first is: why is it so damn important for the Minister to prevent us from having an investigation into it? The second is: Will the Minister take a meeting with Morten Kabell? Then the Minister will also find that Enhedslisten is not indifferent to the funding of the metro, we may just disagree on how it should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153326	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153327	I'd like to meet Morten Kabell in all kinds of contexts. I do not see the need for this, because he does not represent the majority in the City of Copenhagen. If Mayor Frank Jensen, representing a majority in the City of Copenhagen, came to me and said: I would really like a meeting not to develop homes at Amager Samled, but instead somewhere else. That would clearly be relevant. But Morten Kabell from Enhedslisten only represents Enhedslisten. After all, there are no other parties in Copenhagen's citizens' representation that support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153403	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153403-2	Thank you. Now I represent the alternative, so since we're a new party, we can get rid of the flick about what we meant at the beginning of the 1990s. And that's fine. For me, this case is new in political terms. I attended a citizens' meeting on November 30 out on Amager near the area, where hundreds of people had arrived. I got a lot smarter that day, and what I think is exciting and the reason I'm in this is that I want to be a part of preserving this special piece of nature with 5,000 years old beach, but I actually heard at this citizens' meeting several suggestions on how to get a win-win situation. For today Ørestaden has become a not super well-functioning part of town, but the proposal made by the architects named BCVA, who were presented at that meeting, could actually provide a much better integrated district around the motorway in Ørestaden, while at the same time saving the area here. It's just an advantage, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153514	Well, all good is an advantage, but I assume that there are also some backsides associated with the proposal I do not have to assess. A plan has been drawn up for the area, which includes building homes here at the Amager Common. This is part of the financing of the metro construction, which has already been carried out. In the process consultation has been carried out with e.g.: Denmark's Conservation Association, which has said: Yes, this area is not among the most valuable, and you can build it. And now we are in a situation where it is clear that there are residents in the area who would rather have a green area than they would like some new neighbours. You often see this, even inside Copenhagen • If there has been an area and there has gradually been allowed to develop a people's park or the like, then the neighbors will not have new neighbours; they will not have new people in the place in Copenhagen, they will have this green area for themselves. And those interests arise, but that doesn't change the need for this development area for housing in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153624	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153625	But what is interesting is that you actually just move the development area to a place where it makes more use, including urban. This means that you get what you really want, plus that you protect this unique area, plus that you improve the Ørestaden. It's really three wins. We get what we expect, we get urban development with the number of dwellings we had already planned, but we place it in a better place for both nature and for the function and structure of Ørestaden. So will the Minister not take a look at these proposals and see if it was not really here that one could make a difference by choosing one in many ways better solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153710	My eyes are open, and my ears are open, and I listen, and I see. But all these discussions have been taken once, back in time when the decision was taken. And some people are still unhappy with that decision, and they want to take the discussions again and again. And it is not because I do not understand that you would rather have a green area as a neighbour than you would like some houses where other people live as neighbours. Green nature is attractive. It's obvious it's a good neighbor to have. But that does not mean that we are making a decision other than that which was originally taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153750	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153752	Thank you. I just think it's a little too bad that there are some parties in here that are kind of travelers in some wrong stories about this project in Ørestad. I think it was both my colleagues from the Enhedslisten who said this because it was many thousands of years old untouched nature, and that is why I really would like to ask the Minister if the Minister could not confirm that it is not. It's not pristine nature. It has been a military exercise area that has been dug up grenades that have been drained, that has been laid down building land. So the story you're like a traveler in just doesn't fit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153834	Yes, I would very much like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153838	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153839	The second point I would also like to ask the Minister to make is what my colleague from the Alternative said, namely whether this project area, which has been planned since 1992, could not just be moved. But first of all, you have looked at the areas, and secondly, the whole of this project, the underlying project, is an extension of the metro, so that we have been able to build the existing metro. And there is also a station already today, Sundby Station. Can the Minister tell us a little about the difference between having a residential area close to a station and having it far from a station? Will more people take the subway or less take the subway, depending on where such a residential area is located?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153923	The closer people live on the subway, the more people will take the subway. It is true that the metro has also been built, for the sake of where people came to live, and that is why it is also part of this whole plan that the metro be built, in view of the emergence of new residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202153940	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur's round. First, Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154007	Thank you. The story of Ørestad is a fantastic story about Copenhagen, about a capital that has developed much greener, with more public transport and more general housing than most other major cities have been able to achieve, because we in this country many years ago have made the right political decisions. So it hasn't come by itself. That is why we can only wonder today about the resolution if we are in favour of a green capital and the subway with thousands of passengers every day, who take public transport rather than sanding the city with cars and air pollution, and if we are in favour of general housing for ordinary people. Because if you're in favour of it, Ørestad Common Neighborhood is part of the solution, not the opposite. That is why the scaremongering campaign that both Enhedslisten and the Alternative are trying to run with the proposal here is both regrettable and wrong. In the Social Democracy we are warm supporters of the Ørestad Common Quarter. It has been quite a long time since Christian the Fourth went hunting for the Amager Common. It was not so long ago that the area was a landfill and a military exercise area. But already in the early 1990s a large part of the Amager Common was protected. And think how important it is today with such a big green breathing hole in Copenhagen, because you were forward-looking and just put emphasis on nature in the middle of the city. Both Amager Fælled and Kalvebod Fælled are part of Nature Park Amager, whose total area is 3,500 ha. It is a unique area and, of course, it must be preserved. We fully agree with that, but that's just not what this discussion is about. For in the same period, at the beginning of the 1990s, the Law on the Ørestaden was passed. Here a broad majority decided to interpret part of the unsatisfied part of the Amager Common for the urban development of Ørestad, and that is the area we are talking about today. It is the 19 hectares which are not protected and which are part of a successful urban development strategy in Copenhagen, which started many years ago, where it was decided to finance the metro by selling land. So the development of the latter part of Ørestad also helps to finance the existing metro. Therefore, as the Minister said, City and Port will also have a billion debt if the Folketing does what the proposers want. Because the money is spent on the greenest transport system we have in the country, namely the metro. When Enhedslisten and the Alternative suggest that you can just find other building options, it is against better knowledge. The town and harbour do not own any other land to replace the financing of the metro that comes from the development of the Ørestad Common Quarter. And the location is also thought along with Sundby Metro Station, which we just mentioned, because we know that station-close construction is important for whether people buy a car or whether they choose public transport. Right now, the station is not crossed, but it is built in confidence that there will soon be a residential area with thousands of inhabitants that we want to use public transport. So the parties behind the proposal have got several things wrong in their throats. If you read the motion for a resolution, you will see that much is being asked about whether nature is being taken into account. And, as I mentioned earlier in the debate, I think it is important, firstly, to make it clear that nature in the project area is not untouched, as one can get the impression. On the contrary, it's been drained, and these grenades have been removed in the area. And secondly, there are the red-listed plants mentioned elsewhere. However, City and Port also take a number of natural improvements in relation to e.g. amphibians and firescreens, and from the very beginning nature organisations have been involved in follow-up groups and dialogue, just as the construction itself is intended to fit in with Ørestad's green profile and has wide landscape skies. Then the proposers completely forget that Ørestad Fælled Kvarter also means that the City of Copenhagen gets these some 2,000 new dwellings, of which 25 per cent. will be common. It gives room for about 5,000 inhabitants, so when the proposers write that Copenhagen grows every month, then it is precisely necessary that we build the housing • public housing • if we want a capital where there is room for everyone, contrary to the development that we see in many other places in the world. Overall, Ørestad becomes a link between the city and the natural areas, and this contributes to the positive development that Copenhagen has been through over the past many years. Imagine where the city would have been without the subway. If you want a sustainable city, you support the Copenhagen metro Ørestad Fælled Neighborhood, a green district that helps make the rest of the city greener, which helps to give more ordinary people the opportunity to live in the city, and which helps to support Copenhagen's green development and vision of a CO2 We need long-term policy planning and vision. This proposal is the opposite and, of course, the Social Democrats do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154529	Thank you. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154534	Thank you. I find it incredibly interesting to learn that social democracy seems to know more about nature and biodiversity than its leading biologists. It must certainly put certain perspectives on the future nature policy that we can make together, I would say when I listen to the rapporteur's question and statement in the rapporteur's speech on whether Amager Common is unique and absolutely fantastic nature with species that are difficult to find elsewhere. Then I would like to say that there are alternatives to building on the Common, as many have pointed out, so has our own technical and environmental mayor in the City of Copenhagen, and alternative residential areas have also been identified, all of which will be stationary. Mr. Finn Sørensen previously explained. In relation to funding, it is possible to identify other areas, for example: It is also in the perspective plan, and one could, for example, do so. choose Nordhavn. Compared to the station we have built out there, it is located close to a psychiatric hospital, and it allows Copenhageners to get out and enjoy a green area which I think in itself makes it worthwhile, even if we drop the construction. I hope the rapporteur agrees with that. But I do not understand how you take pride in having blinders in this way and refuse to deal with just exploring other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154649	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154650	Well, I guess that's where we're at, 'cause I don't really understand the position that Enhedslisten can have in this. So, you say you want a green city, you say you want collective transport, and you say you want general housing as well. And if we then have a proposal which does just that and which finances the existing metro, then ah, then you won't be there anyway. On top of that, you spend your time and effort making it sound like it's Amager Common, i.e. the large area of 3,500 hectares with Nature Park Amager, which is a green area on Amager, which this project is about, because it doesn't. Then it is true that there are natural values on the building site as there is, but the whole of Nature Park Amager will continue to be as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154740	Precisely because we want to have a green city, we believe that we must preserve a piece of unique nature, which was decided by mistake 25 years ago in a construction project. And I cannot understand this resistance to recognising that in 2017 it is not up to date to start building on any unique nature that we have so little of in Denmark, and I know the rapporteur is well aware of that. We haven't decided on a single solution. All we are asking for is to look at options for alternatives in order to preserve something absolutely fantastic nature close to Copenhageners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154825	What is the problem in this proposal is that a single solution has not been adopted. Because there are no alternative sites. And the subway has been planned on the basis of the plan as far back as 1992, so that a station has been built for the thousands of homes for ordinary people who can now come to a city that is growing and where prices are rising. So the problem is that there is no way out and that the project that is here really means that we will have a greener city, that we will have more housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154858	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154859	I think it was interesting that the Minister opened up that if Mayor Frank Jensen came and wanted to talk about an opportunity for another location, he would be open to it. There are, in fact, many of us who recognise that funding needs to be found; we would just like to discuss whether there could be a different location. And if, like all the time, we use each other as an excuse, one saying that it is protected and the other saying that the money must be paid, then we cannot solve the problems. If you go together, municipality and state, and say: could we, for example, go together? Move the conservation, so we moved it to where what we know today is the most valuable nature that the beach is, and maybe we can move the building to a slightly less valuable natural area. Will the Social Democratic Party not take part in the invitation that came from the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154941	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202154944	I would say that I was actually surprised and a little shocked that the Radical Left, which has been involved in this whole process, which has helped to take these decisions, suddenly does not stand by the agreement that was reached, both many years ago, but also as the whole foundation for the financing of the metro. I do not understand this very well, and I would really like to know whether that is what the Radicals are advocating here today, so that the funding used for the subway will no longer be used. I did not hear the Minister make the opening that Mrs Ida Auken is talking about here. And I actually understand that, because there is no other way to build than on the project area that has been laid out as a building site.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155030	Of course, there are other options. After all, it is a matter of political will. And it could, among other things. be by abolishing the protection on some other parts of the companion, which are less naturally interesting than the place you are about to build right now. After all, it's happened over these 25 years that we've actually learned what kind of nature it is out there that's the most interesting thing to be peaceable. At that time, only water holes could be preserved, and this was then chosen, but that means that the conservation is actually wrong. So if you're preoccupied with trying to save a piece of beach bed, which is unique, by the fact that it's in a big city, you could try to put your heads together and ask: If we're willing from in here to move on the conservation and what's in the Ørestad agreement, which is 25 years old, then maybe you're at the town hall willing to see if you can move the project a bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155110	Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155111	But it is not just here in the Danish Parliament that there is a broad political majority in favour of the plan that is here and that has been known for many years, there is also at Copenhagen City Hall. There is also a large majority in favour of this plan. I actually thought, as I said before, that the Radical Left was also part of this and that you also want the metro. Otherwise, you have to tell me what kind of metro stations weren't supposed to be built. And where is it that you will find that funding when you keep talking about that there are other and alternative options? It is not, of course, because neither City and Harbour nor the City of Copenhagen are tone-deaf, one would really like to do the best project, and that was actually what was discovered back in 1992.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155147	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155148	Thank you. Let us now make it clear that this is not really about metro and public transport or something like that. What this is all about is that we have a small area which, many years ago, was reserved at the beginning of the 1990s to build on. We have now become wiser and have discovered that it is actually a very special little biotope that lies there. And then what we are seeking with our proposals is an openness to that recognition that we can become wiser in 20 years. We could figure out if we couldn't move the small area to another small area of about the same order of magnitude or whatever is of potential. We would like to look at many different options. I have already highlighted the proposal of the architects named BCWA, who seek to integrate all of these square meters, which are planned, into the Ørestaden, so that at the same time the Ørestaden is made a better district. It's pretty close to Field's. It actually gives a win-win on several levels. What does the Social Democratic Party say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155255	Well, what we're saying to that is, for example, this. I think that the alternative must also have been followed if it is the case that a proposal is put forward here in the Danish Parliament. The area which the rapporteur is also asking about, which is protected, which is a Natura 2000 site, and which is not close to the station, has been highlighted. The rapporteur says that this is not about metro, but it is. It is both a question of financing the metro, it is a question of station-by-station housing, and then it is also a question of realising the conservation of the large green area and now having to build on the land that was agreed back in 1992.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155336	Well, there have been several possibilities at stake to find other land, and we have, of course, followed the matter. The area to which I refer here calls the BCWA architects Ørestad 2.0, and these are really integrated areas between the other buildings in Ørestaden. So it's very close to the station. It is simply an extension of building fields within the already existing areas of Ørestaden. It should make the Ørestaden a better city to be in, and that is one of the problems in Ørestaden. So that's the area I'm asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155414	I think it is really a pity that the alternative will not relate to the plan that has been decided back many years ago, namely that the metro is being financed. And I have not yet heard the alternative say how to finance the subway and how to pay that bill. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this, because it does not solve the area to which the rapporteur refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155437	You will then have to wait until a little later. Now it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155442	Thank you very much for the floor. So I heard the Minister very clearly say that he did not think so much about talking to Morten Kabell, who was just the mayor of traffic and the environment, with responsibility for such things, but if there was a call from Frank Jensen as the mayor, it was another matter. I think I heard the Minister say that very clearly, but that does not mean that he agrees with the view of the Enhedslisten, and I do not wish to put it that way. But that was an outstretched hand to discuss in the citizens' representation. What I would like to hear is: why is it so important to prevent these things from being examined again? That is the essence of this motion for a resolution. And if, as the rapporteur says, the authors of the motions for resolutions are as ignorant as the Minister, no, sorry, the rapporteur, but also the Minister, thinks that they are and that they do not know what they are and there are no other options, then that process could be carried out, and it would be a narrow matter to prove that all those who fly dream that it might be done in a different way. So why don't you just take it? Then that discussion is out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155552	But that's exactly what we've been doing. This is what has been done in the City of Copenhagen. You've been able to do this? Or could you do that? No, you can't. So you've been through that process. So it can be said that if the Enhedslisten is satisfied and you have perhaps just not listened to the debate that has taken place in the City of Copenhagen, then I understand the rapporteur is saying that. But otherwise I think it is a little mysterious that you take it up in this Chamber when you have just been through the process which is now being outlined by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155623	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155624	It is certainly not so mysterious, given that it is ultimately about a law that has been passed in the Folketing, which one must have opened and changed in some way, if one wants to preserve the piece of nature we are talking about here. And then I just have to say that I see it as an attempt to avoid the discussion. It is not the case that there is a proposal here that we should examine whether there should be other options. And with what the rapporteur himself has said in relation to preserving Copenhagen as a green city, it was natural to accept such a proposal, because that is not done by destroying a piece of 5 000 years old, not untouched but original nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155709	For me, it is not about preserving a green city, it is about developing a green capital, about making political decisions that make us have a green capital here in Denmark. And that is actually what some really forward-looking politicians did back in 1992, so that one thought it in a whole, so that one had protected Amager Common and Kalvebod Common, so that one today has a natural park, but at the same time one has also financed that we can have a metro, which is one of the greenest transport systems we have. So you can't both want it and then wouldn't pay the bill, and that's kind of what Enhedslisten is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155745	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202155755	Thank you. I do not think I will say so much about the proposal itself, but perhaps a little more about what the position of the Danish People's Party is. I was also at the citizens' meeting that was out there, where mr. Christian Poll also attended, and I sat there and wondered a little about being present. There is a lot about nature in the proposal, and there is probably also a lot of good nature on the Amager Common, but some of what I think the resolution is missing is in fact that now that we have got a metro there, we do not really have any relation to what we think should be changed. That's how I see it. In the Danish People's Party we are not prepared to change the agreement that lies. It is a question of financing the metro that is. There is a clear agreement that some land will be sold, and then City and Port will have to add some money to it. I don't see how we can do that any other way. It is important, when you make stations, which are also out there, that you build stations close to each other. And the proposal, as Mr. Christian Poll mentioned, and as I also heard at the citizens' meeting itself, there is a lot to be done about what can be said about a sealing up of the building. You might think that's really good, but it could be something we're not doing until 20 years. At any rate, if it were me personally, I would be very sad to have bought a property or an apartment in the belief that I had a view, but because you do not think that you will comply with the plan that lies and the funding of the metro that lies, I would lose my view because of some nature. What I find even more striking when one hears the debate here and all the questions that Mrs Lea Wermelin has been given is that in all other contexts I have never heard Enhedslisten or anyone else say: Never mind Natura 2000 sites, never mind protected areas, never mind water holes. So I have never heard Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding say so. I have to admit that. On the other hand, I have often heard Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding say that we have a unique nature that we must preserve. It does not really matter where we are, whether we are talking about the beach line or as now about the Amager Common, it is quite unique and we must preserve it. You can then ask Enhedslisten where the hell they want to develop anything, because I just find that hard to see. Another thing that also puzzles me is that when you take a trip to Amager Samled, there is something called a natural dissemination point that the Danish Nature Agency has built. That is actually where there is the unique nature, as I must understand it. And it's impressive that there hasn't been an outcry over the fact that the Danish Nature Agency has built a natural distribution point, but maybe that's just what we should call it when we build housing; that it's nature dissemination points for all these residents and citizens who want to live out there, and then they can look at the unique nature. I actually think that could be very good. The Danish People's Party does not want to support the proposal. I think it's fine with the deal. I think it is good that we have some funding for a metro. It is almost one of the most green decisions that has been made here in Copenhagen. I think that is a good thing, and we in the Danish People's Party think that is a good thing. And it is good that we are developing the metro, and it is good that we have done so with the funding that has been available here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160146	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160153	Thank you very much. I also believe that the rapporteur has not heard me say today that it did not matter about Natura 2000 sites or water holes. I am not pointing to a Natura 2000 site in terms of replacing the Amager Common. But the reality is that it has been laid out for conservation, and many parts of what lies around the Amager Common are old landfills, and then you have a 5,000-year-old land on which you want to build housing, a part of it. That's what's real. I agree with the rapporteur that we need to find funding and that we need to find other places to build housing so that we can still offer cheap housing to the citizens of Copenhagen. We fully agree with that. If the rapporteur was told that we could do this in a way that would save the Amager Common, that we could find funding elsewhere and that we could build the homes elsewhere, all of which were stationary, I would like to stress, could the rapporteur say: okay, so would it make sense to maintain a fantastic natural area close to Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160302	No, I do not want to do that in this case, and I do not want to do so because the area that has been laid out is, as I understand it, an area owned by City & Port, and that is an area that they naturally want to develop. That is why they have acquired ownership of it. Then there are other areas that have other ownership, but that trade, trade merchant that Enhedslisten thinks is so easy, I don't think it's easy. Well, there's some ownership, and you don't just trade, trade, and say that seven and seven are even. So I find it hard to understand how to do it. I understand that there are some wishes that Enhedslisten has, but where were you when Nature Agency built? Well, then there was no great outcry out there that now a nature dissemination centre was built right in the middle of the unique nature. No, it was not there, but because it is now housing and because it is a development that has been agreed back in 1992, it seems to us quite awful. And I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160358	I mean, why would we have something against a nature dissemination center? What we're talking about is fitting a part of the Amager Common for construction. That is what today's debate is about. And I cannot understand the reluctance at least to investigate it, since there have now been many who have pointed out that by means of spells or other methods we could find exactly the two things the rapporteur is calling for, namely alternative funding and elsewhere to build housing, so that there are still cheap housing in Copenhagen, all of which are stationary. Why, then, should we not examine it further so that we can free the Amager Common from construction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160440	But again, I just can't understand why you're coming now. I can't. This plan has been known since 1992, so it's not a new plan. But then you come in for an hour and you think that now we should change it all because you've discovered a frog. Well, I don't understand. It is quite incomprehensible to me. Then Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd asks: why should we have something against a nature dissemination centre? Well, I don't know if Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding has seen it, but it's buildings. There's a restaurant out there. And it's so okay, as long as it's the Nature Agency doing it. That's what I'm wondering. I guess we can make other restaurants, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160514	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160518	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that the proposal I have mentioned before, called Ørestad 2.0, made by the BCVA, will cause problems now and here because people will lose sight of it. The rapporteur then proposes to waste it 20 years in time and build at that time, but will they not lose their prospect of that time and thus get a lot of nonsense and neighbor complaints? And is it not the case that no matter where we expand large areas at once, there will be some who feel that something is getting in their way that they did not have yesterday and is now suddenly standing before them? I guess that's a preponderance of expansion. What we hear from people who live in the Ørestaden and use the Ørestaden is that it doesn't really work. The outdoor spaces that are there are windy, they're too big, they don't work like urban spaces. That's why these architects have gone in and made a solution where you integrate and create better urban spaces and more square meters to live and stay on. That's what I think is the genius of this solution. Does the rapporteur not see that there could be an advantage in saving nature and creating a better Ørestad at once?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160641	Yes, I can do that, and I can't recommend Mr. Knox. Christian Poll to become a local politician, because this is a question of local plans coming into consultation. I have also been a local politician because I thought it was interesting, because there you go all the way down to matter. But we are now in the Folketing and it is we who are making the overall legislation. If you want to make local plans, it takes place in the local town councils or in the citizens' representation if it is about Copenhagen. If you are interested in making local plans for Amager Common, then become a local politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160718	I would also like to say that my first reaction, when I came to the citizens' meeting on 30 November, was to ask why I was invited. But I realized why I was. It was because it was all based on an agreement reached here in the early 1990s with a mysterious constellation. Some areas were distributed, and with them one had to finance the subway, which, moreover, became three times as expensive and therefore hangs on a much larger debt. That is why I think it is reasonable that we should raise this matter here in the Folketing. It's a very special case. It's our capital. It is a unique piece of nature, we with a small snap, I think, can actually save and at the same time create a better Ørestad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160803	When I came to the same public meeting, I had exactly the same thoughts. My conclusion was then just a little different because I thought: okay, now there are 200 citizens who have not been able to shout up their local politicians, and then they go to the Folketing. And we got God help me out there! It was okay. I don't mind taking an interest in Amager Samled, but I don't think we should change the law on the subway. I don't think we should change the law about everything we've done out there. It was an agreement that was made with Copenhagen's citizens' representation then, as a law. If there is something that needs to be changed, it is above all the citizens' representation that has to change something. It's not us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160841	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. On the line, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202160850	Thank you, sir. President. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative propose in the motion for a resolution here that the government be required to implement necessary legislative and administrative changes which can help prevent the planned construction of the Amager Common. In the text of the motion for a resolution, with great patos, we are actually talking about a step backwards to be reversed. The Left's view is that there is absolutely no misstep. This is one of the most visionary agreements made in recent times when it was decided here back in the early 1990s, and this is because it is the first time in the history of Denmark that it has really started to immerse urban development with our transport infrastructure. It is also true that in the capital there must be a development of housing where there is a need for more housing, and this has already been predicted; it is also borne in mind that when more people come out and live there, they need to be transported; it is also borne in mind that thanks to the economy in this it was advised to make a metro, which among other things. is in a very good connection with our large international airport on Amager. So this is a visionary project, and I am proud to this day that a broad circle of parties is behind this, among other things. The Radical Left was very much in favour of this plan at the time. That is why there is absolutely no misstep. This is long-term urban planning, and I can only say for the Left that we are committed to this agreement, and those who are proposing it here, I think I owe it to them to tell us where the money should come from, because the money has been spent. The money is spent on a metro that will give Copenhagen a collective traffic boost and has led a very large part of the traffic down the streets. That is why I have to say that I have rubbed my eye once more, that it was precisely the Enhedslisten and the Alternative that made this proposal, because otherwise they have stood for someone who would like to have more public transport, would have a greener transport in the cities, and that is precisely what the metro is expressing. I also think you paint a false picture that now we bomb nature on Amager back to the Stone Age. It's a picture that's being painted here. No, we don't. There is still plenty of nature on Amager, and by the way, it was actually when the parties made this plan in their time, and it was before my time, in close consultation with among others. Denmark's Conservation Association, where you asked them how to do this, so it became as gentle as possible for nature. And I thought that was wise, we should do that every time we build some infrastructure, we should of course consult with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, just as they did here. I also note that in the plans of City & Port, improvements in the living conditions of the amphibians and the protected plants in these areas have actually been incorporated. And you will also ensure that the upcoming building is incorporated with common nature as an important element in the entire construction out there. So I think we need to deal with the reality of this. There is an agreement that it stands by, and there is a very broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation that supports this, and they have taken the lead in this project, and we support that in respect of the agreement that has been reached. And the chat that you can just find some other land and then build there is a chat, because there is no funding in that. Here is a financing that was included in an overall plan and the money has been spent. That is why, as a final point, I would like to say that I have also understood the interest of those parties in the fact that there are reasonable housing available in Copenhagen. It is even written in the resolution that the population is increasing month by month in Copenhagen, and that is right, but then we also need to build some housing, otherwise prices will rise enormously if we do not meet that demand in one way or another. So I think there are many contradictions in this proposal and the Left cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161305	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's only from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161310	I do not understand how it can be visionary for the Left to want to build housing on something very special and fantastic nature. I find that very difficult to understand to be visionary. I am very pleased that the rapporteur refers to the Danish Nature Conservation Association, because the Danish Nature Conservation Association strongly supports this proposal and believes that we should take stock of past mistakes. Because we can all be wrong, and that's the way it is. What made sense 25 years ago does not necessarily make sense today, and this proposal is an expression of that. I would ask the rapporteur to answer: if we can now find funding, for example. If we are able to build housing anywhere near the station, so that we can still do away with the expansion that was expected for the Amager Common, what is it for the Left that makes you so much opposed to trying to do it to save this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161423	Well, as I said, we stand by the very, very broad agreement that is behind this. When it was voted in the Folketing, only the Enhedslisten voted against. We are behind the very broad majority in the citizens' representation on this. There is, of course, a whole idea in it. The infrastructure that is now built out there, with the stations that are, is thought into a whole. You can't start that way a few years after throwing up in the air. I don't see where there's gonna be alternative funding for this. It is simply air money that is being talked about here. So the Left is delighted that you have done this in a way that is gentle for nature, and that there will still be plenty of nature on Amager's nearby nature • also when this is built, and we stand by the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161512	It is not gentle for nature to build on a natural area. Period. Then it's not anymore. It's really quite simple. I do not expect the rapporteur himself to go out and find the areas we might be able to use for alternative funding. I do not expect the rapporteur himself to be able to go out and find the areas where we could build the homes instead. But I cannot comprehend the opposition that exists to at least investigate the matter, just with the argument that we are standing by an agreement from 1992. Why can one not admit that others have done so, that it was a mistake, and then correct the error?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161546	Well, I don't see there's anything crucial new in this case. Again, there is a very broad majority in the citizens' representation. I think the rapporteur should go down there and ask what the position is on this project. There is full support for this and a broad political majority, and we stand by that, we support it. And then we welcome the fact that, for once, we have come up with a holistic solution which we shall have to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161606	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161610	Thank you. In broad terms, the rapporteur said that it was a visionary project. And I very much agree with that. I think it is a fantastic project that we have got the metro in Copenhagen in this way that it has become widespread, and it is still being expanded. That is the way it should continue to be. What this case is about is that we want you to look at a little change. It is because we have simply become wiser along the way. The decision taken 25 years ago was not based on the same knowledge that we have today. It was a quarter of a century ago. It's very reasonable that you get smarter at that time. What we're really asking is just to get an investigation into if you couldn't trade a grocery store with some land, so that we can keep this small, very small part of the Amager Common, which some have discovered in the meantime is quite unique. It's good to be smarter. That's fantastic, that's what happens every day. Hopefully. And then we have to respond to becoming smarter. For the small area some have said that this is where we have the very special nature, and now we want to build on it. So try to be creative, that's just what we're saying, and ask: what else could you do? Trade some land, swap some conservations, and whatever else it takes, and then build something. And then it is, of course, that I have repeatedly highlighted a project that would in fact at the same time make the Ørestaden around Field's and that even better. Win-win can only be an advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161743	Now I do not know whether the proposers have taken the trouble to try to consult with those who, like those who are in charge of the project out there, namely City and Port. They're actually pretty much into this, and there are incredibly thorough analyses as a basis for this whole whole plan, including nature and the environment. I don't hear anyone in City and Port or, as I said, the City of Copenhagen, who recommends that we re-evaluate this. That is why the Left finds no reason to start throwing things up again in the air. It is, of course, easier for a party that wasn't there at all, but so many of us in this Chamber are responsible for meeting that agreement and because you discover some new aspect, you want to throw a plan into the air for a great deal of money. So it will not be with the help of the Left. We stand by the agreement reached at the time and we maintain that it was a visionary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161834	Well, of course City and Port have no interest in doing anything that is more difficult. After all, they have the road map, and it is natural for them to say that we are just going on, as has always been the plan. That's why we don't have to ask them if it might be a good idea to take a look at this. What we have to do is react to new knowledge and we have to respond to the fact that a lot of citizens actually want to preserve this 5,000-year-old nature, and then we have to buy something else. But here is actually a solution with which you may not even have to buy any other nature, but at the same time can create a better Ørestad. There's been a lot of controversy about that out there. So I'm thinking it's win-win. We can just switch land. Of course, there are some things that need to be investigated and something that needs to be sorted out and some papers that need to be signed, but overall, the same thing we get out of it is just better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161927	No, there's a little too much hocus-pocus in that. It's not done by just swapping land. There are some reasons and some building rights that need to be realized in order to finance the metro construction that we have created and which I hope everyone is delighted about. So there are some realities there. And the thing about pretending that you can just switch around on some land, and then that funding comes in anyway, we just don't buy. We have not seen any evidence of this, and that is why the Left is sticking to the agreement and the visionary plan that has been laid down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161953	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. So the rapporteur must remain on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202161957	Thank you. I just want to ask you one thing. Because the resolution will continue to be referred back to us in 1992. However, on 16 September last year, which after all is not a very long time ago, there was this discussion here in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, where a number of questions were asked as to whether it could be placed here and whether it could be placed there. There has been such a long review of the various areas I have here where they are mentioned one by one, i.e. what about the Ballon Park, what about the Police School, what about along the Amagerkommendvej etc. etc.? And the conclusion is that there are no other areas. Can the rapporteur just confirm that this is the way it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162052	I think it is very relevant for Mrs Lea Wermelin to draw attention to what happened in Copenhagen's citizens' representation. This simply confirms that we are on the right track and that alternatives have been examined, and so there is a very, very broad political majority behind this, both at the country level and here in Things, but also locally in the citizens' representation. So thank you for drawing attention to that. That's very relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162119	There is another point that I can also hear is one that concerns the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is the question that Ørestaden should not be a very well-functioning district. I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Left if he shares that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162131	I don't. It is clear that it is always a difficult start to make a whole new town, and it may well be that there is someone out there who misses a little more café life and a little more restaurants. But when you look at it this way over the years, you can see that Ørestaden is developing into a success, and I am sure that, when it is fully developed, it will be a district that, for many, many generations to come, will create a good life framework for a great many people. So I don't think it's a failure out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162156	The rapporteur will then have to be free this time. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162204	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Perhaps I should start by pointing out that I am actually only a substitute in this context, as our usual transport rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen, unfortunately, is prevented, but as rapporteur on the environment it is a fantastic resolution to be allowed to be a substitute, and thanks to the authors of this motion for a resolution for giving us an opportunity to turn this issue over again and see if we are now doing the right thing. Thanks also to the motion for a resolution for mentioning Per Smed in the remarks; it warms a geologist's heart like mine to see it. But no more thanking, I'd say. Because with this resolution, the construction of the Amager Common will be stopped, and the Liberal Alliance will be opposed to this. That being so, it is quite simply because we do not see that the necessary and serious reasons have been raised to stop construction when an agreement has been reached. This is an area discussion and a space discussion. The unsaved project area is therefore approx. 19 ha, mentioned earlier, out of a total of 318 ha. Of the 318 hectares, it seems that it is about 200 hectares that are protected, and then, as I have understood from the debate, there are 70 hectares that have actually been chosen not to build. I think that, and this is what we in the Liberal Alliance really think, is a very fine expression of the fact that there has been a fine land-based consideration of nature in this context. At the same time, from an urban development perspective, it is also a good idea to build in the area around Sundby Station to tie Ørestaden a little better together. The exercise also helps to develop Copenhagen, as the project, as we have heard several times in today's debate, also helps to create funding for the metro. That is why we think there is really good sense in this whole project, and that is why we also have to say no to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162456	I was invited to a citizens' meeting on 30 November about the Amager Common in this context, which is the subject of the matter, so that it should be built. At first I was a little confused about why I was invited, because it is a local matter which I believe should usually be dealt with locally. But along the way, I realized what the case was about in detail, among other things. that it is based on this parliamentary decision from the beginning of the 1990s on how to finance the subway, and how the development should be on Amager to support this funding, and there you have then become wiser. It has been found that the small piece of nature that has been placed as a reservation and which is therefore not protected and which one is about to build now is actually the piece of nature that has a very special nature status and a very special nature interest. Here there is a biodiversity hotspot, which is called what grows orchids, and there is a nature that extends back 5,000 years, unlike most of the Amager Common, which is much newer nature. That's why, of course, some people have fought to preserve this piece of nature... thank you to them... and it's also those who have created the movement that has caused hundreds of people to be present at this meeting. I think it is relevant that, as a Parliament, we go in and interfere in this matter because it is a major and important matter. And at the same time it is also quite a small matter, because it is about an area of quite a few square meters out on Amager that you can move around if you are prepared to find a solution, and we were presented at that citizens' meeting with several possible solutions. Some of them were about choosing areas that are naturally protected but have a lower biological quality and trade with them. But the most brilliant suggestion was from those called BCVA Architects, and it was thus to beat two flies with a spanking, namely to improve the urban environment, the urban spaces, in Ørestaden, which today is going to be a little windy and a little too big and not very nice to stay in the outdoors, while saving this unique piece of nature. That is why I think it is quite obvious to go in with a proposal with Enhedslisten here today and just suggest that you get to the bottom of this and maybe find a solution that is win-win, in other words in favour of both saving the little exciting natural area and at the same time creating a better Ørestad. It's just a positive story if it could be done. So there is no change in the financing of the metro, which is not changed in the way the Metro Company Act is put together, which simply moves some land and creates a better solution for all parties. And that is why I am behind this resolution together with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162833	There are three Social Democrats who make brief comments, and the first is Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162844	There are many things I really want to ask, but I would like to start with what I hear the rapporteur keeps saying, namely that Ørestaden is not a very nice place to live. This is certainly not something I am aware of, in relation to, it can be said, all the people who live out there, all the life there is, day-care institutions and a growing industry, etc. So, what does the rapporteur do about the fact that Ørestaden is not a good place to live and be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202162910	I'm sure it can be a nice place to stay and that there are a lot of well-functioning features out there. What I have heard in particular many architects say, and it is not only those behind the proposal here, but also others from the architects' world, is that Ørestaden is not very successful in urban terms. It is a difficult thing to build good urban spaces and create good spaces between buildings and create good places that people want to stay on, where there is shelter and where there is also the possibility of a good life outside. And it is on that level that the Ørestaden is not very well functioning. It is alone on that level, and that is what one can solve so easily or easily, but what one can at least solve with the solution that has been pointed out here by the BCVA.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163003	So it is some architects with whom the rapporteur has consulted who do not think that Ørestaden is working so well. You might have to ask some of the residents who live out there. But when you look at the project that needs to be out there, it looks really good. There, too, the whole green profile and landscape slides have been thought in, and it looks really good, and I would like to ask something about this. The rapporteur mentioned earlier that the financing model used for the metro, which is, after all, the financing of the existing metro, which this is intended to contribute to, was a rather mysterious construction. So just to understand the alternative correctly: is it not for the financing model we have for the metro today, that is, the whole extension we have made of the metro in Copenhagen? Are you against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163050	After all, we have not been back there since then, because then the alternative did not exist, and therefore I cannot relate to the specific decision on how to link that model and what else was possible. But today's model means that because the subway became three times as expensive as it had been planned, there is suddenly a three times as much need to expand and find money. And that means, among other things, that you have a solution here that you push on with, and maybe you don't just have time to stop and think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163122	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163130	Now that the Alternative's rapporteur says that there are many problems in Ørestaden, I would just like to mention that I know a lot of people who are really happy to live there; so I am rather sorry that the Alternative uses the Parliament's platform to talk ugly about a town in Copenhagen where people are happy to live. It has, of course, been suggested in the debate that the studies which, among other things, are being carried out. The alternative talks so much about the need, in fact some studies are the alternative areas mentioned by the alternative have also been examined. So there is really no other option than what has already been approved and which various environmental bodies have also approved. So I just have to hear: when the alternative puts so much energy into this issue, is it really because you are just basically opposed to a metro and to better housing in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163229	As I hope my previous reply to Mrs Lea Wermelin also showed, it is not the case that I consider what it is like to live in the Ørestaden. I think it is a great place in many areas, but there are just many architects and city planners who highlight it as a place where urban spaces have not yet come to function properly. And that's one of the things you can solve with the model called Ørestad 2.0. As I understood at the citizens' meeting I was at, you haven't looked very much into Man has looked at some of the other models, where you put the area out like a stripe against Amager Fælled or along other lines, and there it may not be near enough station. But it does in this Ørestad 2.0 model, because there it is right by the station at Field's. So you get a great station proximity, and you get improved urban spaces in Ørestad city.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163329	I do not really think that the alternative rapporteur was given the answer to what I asked at the end, namely about the basic position on having a metro and building new homes. In other words, we could not stand in the situation that if it were the approach that had been taken back in 1992 that, even if things had been examined, one would just have another study; that is, if that had been the case, we would never have got a metro, then we would never have had the urban renewal and the development that we have had. Is it really the policy of the Alternative that puts everything at a standstill and just keep discussing things and examining things, even though they have been examined once? Should we have just dropped the subway back then?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163410	The alternative is a strong supporter of public transport. We believe that the metro should be built and that it has been built as it should and that it is a fantastic part of the public transport we have in our capital. I do not know whether the financing model is the best one, and I will not be wise about that, because it is an old decision that this sort of thing should be put together. But where we stand today, all we are asking for is for the small area that has now been reached to be stopped and to consider whether some land could not be exchanged and some nature preserved while at the same time making the Ørestaden better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163448	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163455	Thank you very much. Well, I'm also somewhat surprised that the alternative is on this proposal. I took the view that the alternative also shared the ambition of my own party, which is that people would like to have the opportunity to live in Copenhagen, also at a reasonable price. I can see from the model called Ørestad 2.0, which the rapporteur refers to, that these homes, which are planned to be built on Amager Samled, will be removed from the area around Sundby Station and then instead build at Ørestad Station. But as you can see, you have to build all the way out to, almost a few meters from the Amager motorway, where there is traffic of about 25,000 cars per day. Is it the rapporteur's view that living in a 20-25-story high-rise right up to the Amager motorway is just as full and good a substitute as living in, for example, the Amager motorway? A six-story property at the Amager Common?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163551	After all, we cannot remove something that has not yet been built, but we can talk about replacing the area where we have planned to build something with another area. I shall not be able to assess the quality of one area in relation to the other, but both are at least close to the station. And I would think that many people would like to live close to good shopping opportunities, which I think is better at Field's and with the Ørestad 2.0 project. Then there may be other advantages to the other project • I shall not be able to say that. But I see it as parallel projects. Two buildings which, when weighed against each other, will probably have equal advantages and disadvantages. I don't have to be smart about that. But I think that when architects specialising in urban spaces say that you can create better urban spaces with Ørestad 2.0, it will be an advantage over the planned project.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163656	Yes, architects know architecture, but not necessarily about economics, which the rapporteur does not want to be wise about. I would like to be a little clever about this and say that I do not think you get the same price for a square metre of accommodation that is up to a motorway with 25 000 cars per day, as you do on a square metre of accommodation that lies on a green area. In other words, the whole prerequisite, which the rapporteur recognizes, is that we should find this one and a half billion dollars to build the subway. So you just have to say, where is the alternative going to find the money that will be used to build the Copenhagen metro?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163730	I do not know what the basis of the questioner is for assessing the price difference between the two buildings. I am not sure that this will be the case, for example with Ørestad 2.0. come closer to Field's, which many will experience as attractive. So I actually think it can go as much up as it can go down with those prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163757	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202163807	Thank you very much. Amager Samled is unique. It is a piece of nature that also has a very unique part, which is actually some beach that we cannot find corresponding anywhere else in Denmark. It is right up to our capital, in our capital, and is used by a great many people from both Amager and all of Copenhagen, and it is really a loved area, something that I think many appreciate. I also hope and believe that many of my fellow rapporteurs in here appreciate very much that we have the Amager Common and that we have it inside our capital. When the Radical Left, together with SF and the Enhedslisten at Copenhagen City Hall, has proposed that we ask the mayor to try to look at another solution where you might move on the project on the fellow, it is because something has actually happened over these 25 years since the decision was taken. On the other hand, only water holes could be preserved at that time, so that what was protected was another type of nature, that is, part of the fellow, which was not the most interesting natural nature-wise. On the other hand, it has actually happened that natural vision has changed slightly. So today, if you talk to all the green forces, biologists, Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, they all agree that we have not had the most interesting part of the fellow. I just think we in here at Christiansborg should take note of that. I think this is a local decision. I think it is a decision that the City of Copenhagen should take for their city. When it ends up in here with us at Christiansborg, it is because it is among other things. involving the law on the Ørestaden, which has since been changed to Law 551, I believe, and involving a conservation, which of course also requires our involvement, that is, if it is to be changed. And as I hear those who care about conservation and nature, they will actually be willing to see if you could swap the conservations out there so you could move on this project to get it away from the most valuable part of Amager Common. We would also like the same study to look at whether there were other options, but I understand the scepticism from among others. The Social Democratic side, in that it should be easy to find some other land elsewhere; that is what I doubt. But I think it could be beneficial, here 25 years after a decision has been taken, actually to dare to discuss in here whether there was an opportunity to swap land or the like to make sure that this is not going to be on the most incredible piece of nature that lies on that part of Amager, where you have just chosen to build. The motion for a resolution says that the planned construction must be prevented. On the radical side, we do not think it is our job in here to sit and prevent something that is actually a municipal decision, but we would like to help to see whether we can avoid standing in the way of alternative solutions, so that the City of Copenhagen has some more opportunities to explore other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164106	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, the first from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164112	As I also said when I stood on the platform myself, I am very much surprised by the Radical Left's position on this, since you have been involved in voting through the subway and therefore know very well that this is something that was decided in 1992. It does not belong to the protected part of the Amager community, but that is the way it can be seen when Mrs Ida Auken is talking about the green Amager common that we all love. I think we all do, but the land we are talking about here is not part of the protected land, and that is 6%. By Amager Common. That is why I think both the rapporteur is helping to give false information, but I think it is equally important and equally important that the Radical Left's position should be put on the table. In other words, do we support the agreement that has been made on the subway, and therefore the funding? You mean, you stand by that deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164207	I understand that the Social Democrat rapporteur wonders if one has not heard the speech, where I said very clearly that the problem is that the wrong part has been protected, that is that it is not the most interesting part of nature that has been protected. And that's why the construction is currently planned at the place of the companion, which is the most valuable piece of nature. Then at no time have we called the agreement into question, and I think the Social Democrat rapporteur should accept that. And then instead of giving the rest of us an answer as to why the Social Democratic Party does not want to make the attempt just make the attempt • together with its majority colleagues at the City Hall in Copenhagen to see if there was another option. Why wouldn't you want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164248	I do not know whether it was Mrs Ida Auken who did not listen to the debate here earlier. However, I have the material here that was used when the matter was discussed in Copenhagen's citizens' representation. And the proposals that have been made about whether you can do this or you can do this, etc., have been uncovered. And the conclusion is also very clear: you do not have an area that can be used as a substitute for the building project that is now in place. You don't have that area. Therefore, the Radical Left must also take the consequences and either say that you are happy with the plan, because it both makes Copenhagen greener, but also finances the metro, which is a very green transport system. Or you have to take the consequences and say that you do not want to be part of the fact that that financing plan and agreement are not part of it. And that, in fact, is just what I am asking: where does the Radical Left stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164338	But one of the reasons why you say that the area is not there, that there is no alternative area, is that you refer to the fact that the rest is protected. There we say on the radical side that we are willing to do something that we otherwise very rarely will do, namely to move on to a conservation. So we've actually opened up an opportunity that's not in this material, and that's why it's come in here at Christiansborg. So I think I will again refer the question back to the Social Democratic Party with the opening that we could actually look at whether the conservation is in the right place. And we might even be able to see if the municipality and the town and the harbour and the state's land could make an arronding, that is, that you actually switched land, to move it to a place where it's not just going to be in the middle of the most valuable nature. So why is it that the mayor and Social Democratic Party will not be involved in examining whether there is another option if we in here at Christiansborg will open up to help the City of Copenhagen with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164421	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164427	I nevertheless find it rather remarkable that Mrs Ida Auken makes it sound as if we Socialists are not going to investigate anything. Well, the thing is, this has been investigated and it has been investigated and so on. It is on a fully informed basis that we have chosen to do these things, even on such an enlightened basis that Mrs Ida Auken's own party is involved in a settlement to use this money to secure a subway. When it is the case that Mrs Ida Auken is saying, as she is doing on the platform today, it can be seen as nothing more than that the Radical Left is running out of a subway conciliation, that the Radical Left is opposed to the Copenhageners having to have metro, that one is opposed to that kind of innovation, that kind of new and better public transport, and that in reality that is what one is saying here. Because it's been investigated, don't say anything else. It's the Radical Left against the metro to the Copenhageners? Are we running from conciliation now, because that is how it is perceived?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164537	Nonsense. Nobody runs from a single deal. And then I just want to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn: No, it has not been investigated whether we can move on a conservation. I haven't seen any investigation into that. Is Mr. Rasmus Prehn has a study that looks at whether you could actually move on the conservation and see if you could swap land on the fellow? Because I haven't seen that investigation. So if sir... Rasmus Prehn has it, he'd be happy to come forward with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164600	What you can investigate has been investigated. The City of Copenhagen has done these studies. What we are experiencing now is quite the same scenario as what we experienced back in the 1990s, when the City of Copenhagen started working on getting a metro. There were all the people in the world who were busy drawing attention to one and the other and the third and constantly finding the hairs in the soup instead of finding the possibilities. If we continue in the way that Mrs Ida Auken is going to do now, we will not develop the metro, and we therefore think, in all modesty on the part of the Socialist Group, that we should have more metro, not less. I cannot regard what Mrs Ida Auken says today as anything other than a statement that we should investigate and investigate and investigate even if it has been examined rather than get more metro, and that is a breach of the agreement that lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164650	The deal is 25 years old. It has happened in the meantime that there has been a different view of nature. It has become clear that the conservation that was made at that time was not a conservation in the right place. And that's why it'll be wiser now, when you've learned more about the natural element, to see if you can move it. That is what the Radical Left wants to do. We simply want to uncover the possibilities that exist, and here is an opportunity that Mr. Rasmus Prehn couldn't come up with any document showing that you've been investigating. So it would be nice if the Social Democrats in Copenhagen instead of scolding themselves and getting upset and coming down here with a whole army of people who would accuse us of all sorts of things, sat down to try to see if you could benefit Copenhageners by saying: It's quite unique that you have this piece of nature; we've learned that it's the wrong part of the fellow who's protected; let's try to solve that problem together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164736	The next question is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164739	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur's party, at least here in Christiansborg, supports the agreement. It is a pity that we cannot do the same in the citizens' representation. But does the rapporteur recognise that when you have major urban development projects like this, where you build 260,000 floor meters, there is planning that is long-term? Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a Finger Plan 2007, which allows building within 600 metres of high-quality public transport? Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a plan in HOFOR, which is making wires and pipes for these constructions, which will take 10 to 20 years into the future? Does the rapporteur recognise that there is a hierarchy of institutions and schools which means that one cannot take one area from one day to the next and say that one would rather have the other end of the Amager Common, or that it should be completely on the southern tip, as the politician suggested, or elsewhere? In other words, does the rapporteur recognise that the planning underlying this, which is very thorough and is not just in the City of Copenhagen, but also at state level, also in the utilities and in the Fingerplan 2007 and which is intended to ensure that more people take public transport, makes it simply not possible to exchange an area like this in the last hour before closing time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164850	Yes, things take time, and they require political will. That is why we think that we are not here today at Christiansborg and say, as Enhedslisten and Alternativet, that we should prevent the municipality from making tools available to the City of Copenhagen in order to have the opportunity to examine whether the project can be moved on to the partner. That is to say, it is not necessarily the case that this is not the project that can be used. It is simply a question of examining the possibility, so we know that we have done our alleralds best to take care of the most valuable nature we have in Copenhagen. We haven't been pretending it can just be moved anywhere else. We don't think that's easy. But here is certainly an opportunity. I also did not get very popular at the citizens' meeting to stand and say that it could be that it was within the comrade that you should move on to it. But that is one of the possibilities I think there is at all in this area and which we think should be explored.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202164941	In other words, as it is now, the City of Copenhagen has already carried out that study. In the City and Harbour, a large development company with the majority of the urban development areas of the City of Copenhagen, it has been estimated that this simply cannot be done, that you cannot just find a new area where there are institutions where there are pipes for district heating, where there is proximity to the citizens who are going to live there. So now that you have had that assessment, what is it you really want out of now everything, far too late, as I see it, to take up this discussion instead of just saying: we have an agreement, we have stood by it all the time, and of course we are still standing by it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165022	The studies which City and Harbour have carried out, to which the Mayor of Copenhagen keeps referring, and which Mr. Kaare Dybvad refers to, after all, excludes many areas of the companion due to the conservation. That is why we are so open-minded, to use a modern word, that we will actually be willing to do something else we never do, namely to see if we can move on a conservation. In fact, I believe that we want the whole of the natural world with us, and I believe that we want all the green organisations to explore an opportunity which has not yet been investigated and which neither Mr. Rasmus Prehn or Mr. Kaare Dybvad or Mrs Lea Wermelin has been able to come and say has been examined. No, there is an opportunity here that has not been investigated, and it is of course a great pity that the Social Democratic Party does not think that one can investigate this possibility, since there is an openness on the part of the Danish Parliament to move on some of the things that have otherwise stood in the way of the City of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165103	The next question is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165108	Thank you. Twenty-five years ago, Radical Left was a warm supporter of this visionary plan, where for the first time a new town with an attractive nature near the homes and the infrastructure of the Radical Left was thought to be warm supporters. Now I am very surprised that the Radical Left, as a conciliation partner and as a party that voted for this law on which it is based, is now questioning this, because that is really what we are doing. You pretend you can move around some building fields as if they were legos, but it's just a plan. Daily institutions, utilities for investments, the metro that is built, the station etc. I mean, it's connected. And then you paint a picture that we can just move it around. That is what they have examined in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, and that is not possible. That is why I would like to ask the Radicals whether they are basically behind the agreement that underlies this, and thus behind the construction of the metro station in Copenhagen, because these things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165206	Yes, we are behind the agreement, and I have also made that very clear. We have just said that there is an option that has not been investigated, and that is what we would like to examine. It's about whether we can move this conservation so that the project can be located somewhere else than in the most valuable nature. It is simply to say that when a decision has been taken 25 years ago, it is a long time ago. It may be that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen doesn't think that 25 years is a long time, but we are the others who do; I think I was then 14 years old. Well, 25 years is a long time, and that's why we could go and see if that conservation is in the right place. That is our task in here at Christiansborg, and that is what we say radically that we are willing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165247	Yes, 25 years is a long time, but it is certainly a new style in the Radicals that we do not recognise that precisely in infrastructure, urban planning and so on. so you think on long-term horizons. There you can't suddenly come and say you throw it up in the air, and then you see how things are going, and you have to have examined you and that. To the point of saying that we must take a great deal of account of nature: I think that the Radicals are riding freely in this matter. One would like to say that you are the ones who spare nature, while the rest of us are some who, in a fit of gluttonous evil and totally black vision of nature, I must understand, just keep going according to the plan that we have all adopted 25 years ago. I simply think that the Radicals are riding freewheels, and I certainly hope that they are still behind the plan for the construction of the subway, because that has actually caused some doubt today, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165339	I think I have answered very clearly. We are completely behind the plan. The only thing we are willing to do is to be open to looking at what has stood in the way when the alternatives were examined, namely a conservation. We'd be willing to take a look at that. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen makes it sound as if the alternatives have not been investigated in the meantime, and that you have just made a plan 25 years ago, and that's just how it works, otherwise you can't do anything. It's not like that either. After all, we have just heard that Copenhagen Municipality thinks that they have examined other options. And then there is an opportunity here which has not been investigated and which the Radical Left believes it is worth examining before we establish that it is there, because it is actually in the midst of the most valuable nature we have, here in Copenhagen, and is one of the most valuable beaches we have in all of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165419	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165430	In the SF we are positive about the intentions of the resolution. Amager Fælled is a unique natural pearl in our capital, and it is home to a rich animal and plant life. We support a greener Denmark and believe that it is quite special that our capital has such a large green lung small 2 km from the city center. Bearing in mind the character of the building field as an old beach and as the last remnant of original nature in the City of Copenhagen, we must do everything possible to preserve the area. The peace of the Amager Common Beach is for us in the SF both about a green concern in which we must try to preserve as much of our clean and genuine nature as possible, but it is also about a democratic concern in which we, as politicians, must listen to the citizens for whom our resolution is important. And a great many citizens do not want the Amager Common to be used for construction, at least not the beach. Therefore, in the SF, we will do everything we can to find alternative solutions to this problem, both in respect for the citizens of the area who have fought a great battle, but not least for biodiversity and nature in the area. SF København has made a great effort to seek alternative solutions so that the co-worker can be preserved. As recently as 24 November last year, our municipal politicians proposed that the City of Copenhagen should be required to examine whether alternative locations can be found for the 2,500 dwellings which are scheduled to be accommodated in the Amager Common neighbourhood. Unfortunately, SF Copenhagen's proposal did not receive support. The proposal was voted down by the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives in the Civil Representation. It is a pity, because it is from the City of Copenhagen that the initiative for an alternative solution must come. In SF we are ready to enter into concrete negotiations with the City of Copenhagen and the government on how we can find alternative solutions in relation to a possible conservation. However, it is absolutely essential that both parties are prepared for such a discussion. At the same time, I would like to emphasise very clearly that an alternative solution must be found within the framework of the metro conciliation that we entered into in 2006. We are entirely behind this. In the SF, therefore, we are constructively entering into the next committee dealing with the motion for a resolution, in which we hope to be able to get answers to a number of questions and to have more clarity about the consequences of the resolution. If the proposal is implemented as it stands, it will actually be an expropriation which will therefore trigger claims for compensation. We are therefore also curious to hear what the proposers have been thinking about in terms of funding. Some have already been mentioned, but it could also be that we could find other solutions together, including other locations of construction. We believe, on the one hand, that all possibilities for preserving the unique nature of the Amager Common should be explored, and, at the same time, we believe that an alternative solution should be found in a negotiation with the City of Copenhagen. In other words, we are open to finding a majority and are prepared to find solutions to the constraints that several parties may have. In these words, we are taking positive action in the negotiations further in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165754	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165800	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this is how I have experienced it with the SF that, in principle, you can agree with the Ørestaden and the metro, but when it comes down to it, something is always in your way. I remember, among other things. SF politician Margrete Auken, who always said that we didn't build the metro for the guests, so you could skip the metro plan to Amager Beach and move on to the airport. And every time new things were proposed, something new was in the way. So in this way, I think it is a little too bad that the SF is holding on to the course that has now been taken, almost ever since the metro was proposed for the first time, precisely that it is in principle okay, but that you always find some hair in the soup. But I hear the rapporteur, and what I really want to ask is: does the rapporteur recognise the basic need for long-term planning and therefore also to stand by the agreement; the need for close planning of stations; the need for planning institutions and schools at the same pace as the urban development areas being created; and the need for supply companies and those responsible for road traffic, etc. to be able to plan long-term planning so that we get it as cheaply as possible for our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165913	Yes, I recognise that need, but I also think it should be the case that when we have such long planning periods, it should be okay that we learn more along the way and that new wishes and needs arise. This isn't an attempt to put the entire subway building in the grave. It's a small corner of that settlement, and that's just what we're saying. Could we not, however, together try to examine what is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202165943	But it has been examined by the democratic assembly, which has to take a position on this, namely the citizens' representation of Copenhagen. There is no reason why we in the Folketing should interfere with their work in developing their municipality, just as we should not be lying around and disturbing all sorts of other municipalities around the country, compared to how they create urban development. Does the rapporteur not recognise that the City of Copenhagen has examined the possibilities that are on the table here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170007	It is not my view that it has been thoroughly investigated because they have examined the part of what is about the contribution of the City of Copenhagen in this. But none of these changes have been opened up. That's also what's a little funny about this discussion. On the one hand one can say in the City of Copenhagen that no, we cannot do anything because we are bound by agreements with the state, and on the other hand we can sit here and say that we cannot do anything because the City of Copenhagen has some other plans or has made some other decisions. It may well be that the decision in the citizens' representation would look different if they knew that there was actually a cooperation with the state about it. We don't know that. It hasn't been searched, and it hasn't been tried. In addition, I would also like to say that it is also my view, at least from what I have heard from the citizens' representation, that a number of questions have been asked, but no real answers have been forthcoming.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170056	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170058	Thank you. No real answers have been received, they say. So, I am here with Annex 3 from the discussion that has been held in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, and I think it seems that there are quite a lot of pages of answers to the questions that have been asked. And it is true that it is the democratic assembly that really decides this question. However, the rapporteur himself, as the rapporteur said, is also involved in a conciliation on the metro, and there are some things that are not connected with both saying that we will do everything we can to preserve this area, and at the same time saying that we will be behind the agreement. I understand that you want to be behind the agreement, because the metro is a fantastic thing in Copenhagen, but the rapporteur must also choose whether to support the agreement that has been made on the green transport system, which means that thousands of Copenhageners take the metro every day or whether it is said that the agreement that has been made on it cannot be expected, i.e. that the area cannot be built and that the agreement cannot therefore finance the debt of 1.5 billion. kr. in City & Port, i.e. money that is spent. Or what is SF's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170205	Well, first of all, I've seen the questioner waving those papers many times, and I think if I'm to be honest, it's a little a bad excuse for not wanting to investigate alternatives. Imagine if you actually got smarter by looking into it. Imagine if there were opportunities you hadn't seen. We have just heard Mrs Ida Auken suggest that the conservation could be moved. That is, for example, the case. not studied. It could also be that there were other things that had not been investigated. And that is why the SF in the citizens' representation put forward a proposal to require the civil service to provide some alternatives; then they could come back to say: that is out of the question, it is not possible at all. But this is not the way the process has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170254	That's not a bad excuse. It is because the speaking chair of the Folketing will make it appear as if people sitting in here are not interested in listening or becoming wiser. It's just been investigated, and it's not part of the protected Amager Common. And that's why I think you travel a little bit in some stories that confuses a lot out on the other side. That is why I ask specifically: what is the SF's proposal? The rapporteur must correct me if I am wrong, but can the rapporteur not confirm that the project area now under way has been a military exercise area, has been drained and that nature also exists elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170329	Yes, but there isn't such unique nature 2 km from one city center anywhere else. It's quite unique, and that's what I think makes a lot of people settle in Copenhagen because you appreciate that it's a municipality where you can get nature close to, i.e. where there are not only artificially established parks, but actually old nature is close to the city. Then I forgot the question. But I just want to say again that I do not believe that all options have been explored. For the City of Copenhagen has studied part of it, but no one has sat around a table and asked: If we both the state and the municipality should try to find solutions, is there anyone? And that's just what I think we should try to investigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170416	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170419	I must admit that I think there are some more Copenhageners who settle in Copenhagen because they can walk down the street and then take a metro at work or into the Danish Radio Concert Hall or the Royal Theatre or to the cinema or something other than that there are people who settle in Copenhagen because there is a thousand-year-old beach beach. I just have to say that. It is not the same as not having to investigate it, but there I just think that the SF owes it to recognise that things are having And yes, you can always look into things once more, but is it useful if what is the consequence is that what is so important, namely to have an extension of the metro, to have new homes made, to stop? Is the Socialist People's Party's message from today's platform to people in this capital: We would actually like to postpone the metro and make less metro, and we would like to have fewer homes for ordinary people? Is that what the message is today, because that is what the consequence is, if you want to look at something that has been studied several times, first?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170528	I think that's a strange interpretation of my message from up here. No, we don't want to change the construction of the subway. We stand by the agreement we have on the metro construction, but what we're just saying is that we don't think it's been investigated enough. You still owe it to the Social Democrats to answer the question put by Mrs Ida Auken from the platform: is it possible, for example, to do so? To change a conservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170558	This is what the City of Copenhagen has examined. I need to hear something from Mrs. Trine Torp. Is it the case that Mrs Trine Torp is aware that the Metro Company has, in this way, tied up some loans to this company or to this area and that the economy of the Metro Company could thus get into trouble if it is still investigating something that has been studied and examined? Is it the errand of the Socialist People's Party to create even more uncertainty about the economy of the Metro Company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170631	No, that is why we are saying that alternatives need to be found. We recognise that this is part of the funding of the Metro Company, and I am fully aware of what the constraints are in it. That is also why I said in my rapporteur's speech that all of us in the parties that are part of that conciliation have certain constraints, and it is by recognising them and by trying to find solutions to them together that we want to move forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170700	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170711	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. Our transport rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, has asked me to inform you that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution. There are two reasons for this. The construction of the small part of Amager Common was part of the agreement to build the metro in Copenhagen. The company City & Port has been allowed to build to finance the metro, and we do not run from that agreement. In addition, we have noted that Copenhagen's citizens' representation does not support the proposal to stop construction, and when the municipal council of the city does not support the desire to stop construction, we do not believe that the Folketing should intervene, and that is why we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170758	There are no brief comments, so the rapporteur is now off the hook. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202170808	Thank you very much. Amager Common is unique. If you live in the middle of Copenhagen, you can jump on a bike, and shortly afterwards you will be standing out on an area of Amager Common, where you will now be building. If you stand in the building field, you will find, if you look, that you are standing in no less than a so-called biodiversity hotspot. In concrete terms, this means that you can be fortunate enough to see rare species of birds such as carrots, thornsongs and grasshopper singers, and if you look carefully, you may find the endangered plant wood screen that has one of its last habitats in Denmark on this particular area. And if you sit down, there is a good chance that you might see some of the more than 20 species of native wild beach plants and perhaps some of the 7 endangered fungus species that only exist here in the City of Copenhagen. If you build here, you risk some of these plants and species disappear. In other words, you are standing on the Amager Common, not on some random green area when you are standing on the building field. You are standing in a unique area, and that is because it is an area that has not been built or cultivated for 5,000 years. It is a 5,000-year-old beach beach and thus one of the very last remains of original nature in the City of Copenhagen. The rest of Amager Common is filled soil from an old dump, but this very area is special. And why are we in this really crazy situation that you want to place apartment blocks on some of the finest nature of the City of Copenhagen? This is because Copenhagen, back in the early 1990s when the subway was to be financed, chose to do so by means of basic sales, including by the sale of Amager Samled. And a lot has happened fortunately, one can say in 25 years. We are now much more aware of how important open green areas are, how important it is to find peace and experience nature, especially when living in a hectic city like Copenhagen. And we can see today, also if we lift our eyes and look beyond Denmark and the nature we have here, that Amager Samled is something very special. In a national context, too, we are dealing with a very unique nature here, and that is why the decision taken back in 1992 should, of course, be reconsidered. When the decision that Amager Common could be used as a building site was made, there was much less understanding of what nature close to the city could actually mean, nor did it know that 25 years later we were in a situation where we are so far from meeting the basic objectives of halting the loss of nature and biodiversity in Denmark, that there is no chance that we will achieve our goal of halting the destruction of nature by 2020. And then, of course, there is nature, which there should be no doubt about is completely unique and invaluable. If today in 2017 we were to make this decision and really decided that the most unique nature on the Amager Common should be built, people would undoubtedly think that we were crazy. And that is exactly where you should take responsibility and stop and say: maybe it wasn't the best decision, maybe we should check whether there are alternatives. Instead, one pulls on the shoulder and says that done is done and places responsibility for this failed decision with politicians who made the decision many years ago. I would also like to stress that this is a matter for the Folketing, because it is a law in here that needs to be amended in order for this to be possible. I hope that will become clear to most people. Then it is clear that alternative funding will have to be found if it is that this land must be kept free of excavators, and there have been various proposals for alternative building sites on the table, but so far it has been stranded in the municipality, as some council members have not found the proposals for alternative funding realistic. But not long ago, when it was discussed here in the Civil Service and now I would like to come up with some of the exciting questions that I very much hope to get later, it was rejected to look at this in depth, and that is what we think we should do to make sure that all options So this resolution should be seen as a humble desire from the Enhedslisten and from the Alternative to make sure that we have done everything we could before we choose to build on the beach, which is 5,000 years old, and which is absolutely fantastic with the location that it has, and that we have examined both the possibilities of alternative funding, but also the possibilities of building housing elsewhere, because there is no doubt that now I am going to come up with another question in advance. There should be no doubt about that at all. We very much hope that, in the subsequent committee work, I would like to acknowledge too much positive tones from both the Radicals and from the SF, which I think is very nice to have a discussion on a report that can at least set in motion what we are proposing with this motion for a resolution, namely to have mapped out opportunities for precise housing and financing. Because if we get it right, we can save Amager Samled, and frankly I think we owe it to each other and to our children and grandchildren, that is to say to try and try everything. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are three brief comments for the moment, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171516	Thank you. Frankly, I must admit here today that I am very sorry to see that the Enhedslisten is making this proposal, yes, I understand that the alternative is putting it forward, but not the Enhedslisten, which has always been a socially conscious party, which has always been a party that the gentleman's many times stood down in the Parliament hall and talked about Copenhagen becoming a rich man's ghetto; who has stood and conducted a municipal election campaign for more cheap housing and it should be easier to pay a dwelling when living in Copenhagen. We have heard that message so many times from the Enhedslisten that we can almost repeat it in our sleep. We know exactly the words and the terms you use. But now you stand up and speak up against it. There must be 260,000 floor meters of housing built for those citizens who actually have the opportunity to buy them. After all, it is Ørestaden that is the cheapest area in all of Copenhagen to buy housing in Copenhagen, but when it comes to prioritising and choosing between some very special natural interests and the possibility of building housing for citizens, including those citizens who are not native Copenhageners who have access to the closed lists and those citizens who come from outside and who may not earn the high wages, they argue against it, even if they citizens need to have a residence in Copenhagen. I simply cannot believe that the Enhedslisten is now standing and speaking against it. I simply have to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the assessment made by the Minister, which was that this will mean more expensive housing in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171635	Either you have a very bad case or you are running out of arguments if you have to pack what you want to say into such a series of cases. Yesterday I had a meeting with Copenhagen's technical and environmental mayor, Morten Kabell, to ask precisely about the two things: Can we find other areas where we can build so that we can still offer the Copenhageners cheap housing if we no longer have to build on Amager Samled? And the answer was yes. I also asked about something else: can we find other areas where we can finance this from? And the answer was yes. And what you didn't want when you dealt with it in the city council was to examine these things to the bottom. So there is nothing to prevent us from still being able to build cheaper homes near Copenhagen, while at the same time not building on the Amager Common.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171737	After all, it is difficult to stand here in Parliament and then have to decide what the rapporteur and her party colleague have talked about last night, but that basically does not change what we can see on the map, nor does it change funding. I know that Enhedslisten does not always care about economics, but a metro must be financed, which Enhedslisten is in favour of, but is not in favour of financing; some homes must be built for some people, and none of those parts have been given any viable answers to; none of those parts have been put forward; not a single map has come up with a description of where it should be located. The reality is that when we talk about station proximity, which is crucial to ensuring that Copenhagen can become more CO2 that agreement has been here for 25 years. The Enhedslisten has existed in the 23 of the years. Why do you bring it to me at the last minute?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171826	I would like to start by signing that we should not continue with another straw-man argument that we should be against the subway, as I have heard from the Social Democrats, but that it is precisely the funding. So thank you for that. At least we've got it straightened out, and we don't have to listen to it anymore. I can only say that I have consulted with one of the people who, after all, are holding their fingers down in this area and who has an overview of where there are possibilities for housing and where it is that we can build. For it is quite clear that it is absolutely essential for Enhedslisten that the two things have to go hand in hand. It is precisely that you have to be able to build cheap housing, that you have to finance the subway. We also take responsibility for that, even though we were opposed to the idea of financing the subway with land and at the same time protecting valuable nature. And the three things can go into a higher unit. I cannot understand why the Social Democratic Party will at least not just be involved in examining it, because that is what this proposal is all about: that we should examine it. So trust that the Mayor of Copenhagen, who knows something about this, may know what he's talking about!
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171932	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202171935	I think it is simply a number too good that Enhedslisten should stand on the platform and say that you can have these three things when you have not put anything forward in any way possible. Because it is true that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says that there is not much going on in Copenhagen compared to the metro thanks to the Enhedslisten. The rapporteur gave such a very graphic description of the possibility of cycling to the Amager Common. And that is true, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it not also true that even if we do not vote through this, one can still ride out and enjoy the Amager Common, because the entire protected part of the Amager Common is not touched in relation to the construction of Ørestad? I would also like to ask whether it would have been possible to take the subway to Amager Samled if it had not been decided on that law in 1992. In other words, would there have been a metro if it had not been decided to finance the subway as well? Then we could still have been for the subway today, but just didn't have any metro. I guess that's the consequence of what Enhedslisten says. So, last of all, how many more cars does the rapporteur think would be in Copenhagen if we did not have the metro?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172048	Now we come back to that, whether you're for or against the subway. I think I'll leave that alone. I think we've taken a trip about that earlier today. I can point to the outermost part of Nordhavn, which is already in the perspective plan, which is one of the things that Enhedslisten points out one could take as funding instead. Then I can tell you that there is already an opportunity to build 45,000 to 50,000 new homes in areas such as: the harbour, Grønttorvet, the industrial harbour area, Carlsberg and on other industrial sites. If we have not said that if we protect and do not build on Amager commons, we have to do exactly this in the proposal, then it is because we want an open approach, in the hope that other parties may also be interested in going with us and saying: we agree that this part of the Amager Common is quite unique. That is why we need to have an open investigation into whether there are alternatives. I just don't understand this opposition to open investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172152	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172207	I think that was number one. 2 questions to Mrs Lea Wermelin. I'm gonna give her the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172208	That is absolutely correct. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172210	When there is talk of straw-man arguments, it is amazing to have to listen to what is being said from the platform right now, because we are, in fact, open. We have succeeded in creating a green capital; we have helped to ensure that the natural areas that are on the Amager Common are preserved; we have helped not only to want a metro but also to finance a metro; we have also helped to build general housing which is so much talked about and which is so much needed and which we must also be able to afford. That's what we put on the table. What Enhedslisten puts on the table doesn't make any sense. There's no funding for any of it. And when the rapporteur talks about nature being so unique, I would really like to ask once again the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether she cannot confirm that it has been a military exercise area, that there have been sinks out there and that the nature that you find out there can actually also be found elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172257	No, I can't confirm that. I can confirm that this has been a military exercise area. If we look around Denmark, some of the most amazing natural areas are actually the areas that the military has had, because then they are still relatively untouched. There is no place in Denmark where there is nature and where there has never been a human being. Well, let's try to be realistic here. I would just like to recommend Mrs Lea Wermelin to try to talk to some of the biologists who know about this. I think Mrs Lea Wermelin would be surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172331	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172335	Indeed, there have been biologists inside, who have agreed to what has been laid down now, and when we are talking about straw-man arguments, I think I would say that what I am seeing from the Enhedslisten today is blue-light arguments. I mean, you talk about being in favour of the subway, but you're just against funding. You're against finding the money. We are talking about more housing, but we are just opposed to finding the areas where they should lie. And we are talking about having a Copenhagen where there is space and there is light and there is air and there is green, but you do not want a metro and an extension of the metro, which means that we do not sand up in traffic chaos with us and pollution. It is not us who are out in something with straw-man arguments, it is Enhedslisten who has simply gotten into some blue-light arguments. You also make it sound like it's the whole Amager Common that's going to be used for development. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this is 6%? by Amager Fælled, who is going to be used to make this residential extension, which will help finance metro and other services 6%.? It's not the whole Amager Common.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172453	Everywhere in this country, nature is under pressure everywhere. So all the places where we have something left, where there are some of the unique and special species that help define the nature we have, we have to protect every single percent. I can confirm that. I now come to a few repetitions, but I must apologise to the audience. We need to find alternative funding if we remove plans to build on the Amager Common. That is what this motion for a resolution is about, examining whether there is alternative funding. We have had clear indications of this from some of those who know something about it that it is there. Now let's imagine we're doing the study and finding out that there isn't. At least we've looked into it. And it's about finding other places to build common, cheap homes than on the Amager Common. Let's say it turns out to be impossible. At least we've looked into it. And that's what's at the heart of this proposal, that's to see if we can protect this amazing nature. I hope that the Socialists will go home and sleep on it and appear in committee when we deal with this motion for a resolution and participate in the constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172619	Well, we're also in favour of investigating things. We are also in favour of protecting the nature that is under pressure and we have actually been sleeping on it for more than 25 years. Twenty-five years ago, we took responsibility for the fact that Copenhagen today has a metro, so nature is less pressured, so there is less congestion on the roads, so there is less pollution on the roads than there would have been if there was no metro. If it had been for Enhedslisten, we would still have discussed it, and we would still have looked into it, then we would still have had to lift another loft, but a subway had not been built. You'd been sitting there talking about things forever. If nature is less or more pressured by the failure to build a metro so that people have to drive by car, I will just hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172714	Oh, then we fell into those muddled straw-man arguments anyway. It's counterproductive if we'd been sitting here talking for 25 years. We're glad there's been a subway. We are opposed to the financing of it, which is why we did not vote in favour at the time. It could have been that we could have talked ourselves out with the rapporteur's party for more talented funding than, for example, we could have done. to make out the joint of Amager, and to build upon it. That would have been a better solution, at least we would not have been here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172744	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172802	The debate is open, and the first is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202172826	Thank you, President. In November 2015, the then Left Government came up with a very far-reaching proposal for the liberalisation of the Planning Act. The proposal would have had dramatic consequences both for our open shores and unspoiled beaches and for the lives of our communities. Yes, the Left Government would even put an end to cheap housing in the larger cities. Social democracy entered into negotiations with the government over a long period of time, tough negotiations, but fortunately it ended with a result that managed to pull its teeth out of the government's most extensive liberalisations. And it is clear that this is the case with conciliation that not all the elements of the final agreement have grown in the social democratic garden, but of course we stand by the conciliation we are making and the agreement we are now discussing. I think that the parties behind the broad settlement have all ended up with an agreement that adjusts the law of plans so that, on the one hand, it improves the opportunities for growth, development and settlement throughout Denmark, and, on the other hand, at the same time protects the Danish peculiarity, which is a good environment and a rich nature. And I would like to thank the other parties behind the agreement for that. The legislative proposal we are discussing here will then give effect to the agreement, and I will not go into the details of the legislative proposal, but will emphasise that there are a number of very good measures that create a better framework for growth. The bill opens the way for growth and development opportunities for the productive industries, tourism and retail trade, including in rural areas. And as the law is today, there is often pressure on production companies due to increased environmental demands and conflicts, which means that a company cannot expand the company in its current location. This means that the company has to move, and this is often a costly affair. Therefore, this draft law in the field of industry is limited to the production industries, so that existing production industries are ensured that they do not have to meet new requirements at the present location. And that will then provide increased investment security for many manufacturing companies. It is so important to stress here that these are not less stringent environmental requirements for companies, but simply that the existing companies are not subject to new and additional environmental requirements for the location they currently have. The draft law creates the possibility of ensuring a more efficient shop structure. The municipalities must ensure this by providing space for larger shops, new store concepts that can ensure a better range of products and lower prices. And the question then is whether it will lead to large shops and many small towns without shops. And here it is important for municipalities to ensure that there is a varied supply of shops in small and medium-sized cities and good accessibility for all types of road users to these shops. With a more flexible use of the summer houses during the year, more life and a longer tourism season will be ensured in Waterside Denmark. This seems to us to be quite positive. The law also makes it more attractive to settle in rural areas. On the basis of the consultation phase, it has been made possible for municipalities to grant land-zone permits for the establishment of several dwellings in redundant buildings. This will increase the settlement opportunities, and that is very good. All in all, it is a series of measures that together allow citizens and businesses and local authorities to achieve balanced growth throughout Denmark. We Social Democrats are pleased to be involved in this. What has social democracy secured in these negotiations? Social democracy fought in the negotiations for housing to be available for the SOSU assistant and police officer in our cities in the future. And here the Left Government would, of course, remove the possibility in the planning law for municipal councils to be able to impose a requirement that there should be up to 25%. general housing in the context of local planning for new residential areas. Fortunately, that didn't happen. We also took the breath out of the previous government's desire to experiment with building hotels and other things along our coasts and on our common lands. We have secured new development opportunities for the municipalities with the new development zones, so that it supports more life and growth throughout Denmark, but without buying out our valuable nature. At the same time, we have ensured more and better coherent nature. We do this by preserving and strengthening the green Danish map so that it is now a central tool in the municipalities' work to create a much more coherent nature. We are very aware that with the bill here we are adjusting many places. Some citizens have been pleased with the new opportunities offered by the agreement, and others think that a tooth may have been adjusted too much. Indeed, spatial planning affects all of us and is of great concern to many Danes, and this is also reflected in the 400-page consultation responses that have been received. That is why I would also like to emphasise that it is an important part of the agreement that it will be evaluated by July 2020, so that we have a hand in dealing with any inappropriateness in the current proposal. In conclusion, we welcome the fact that this is a balanced legislative proposal for amending the law on plans. We are pleased that a compromise has been reached where we have all given ourselves a little, and we Social Democrats, of course, when we are in the agreement, can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173338	Sir. Thomas Jensen's presentation gave rise to a few brief remarks, and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173348	Thank you. I would like to ask about the liberalisation of land-zone rules. We have had a discussion in the Folketing in the past and among rapporteurs on exemptions and on how to ensure that the places where you have the most challenges are given a helping hand. It is also stated in the introduction of the comments to the draft law that there may be problems with employment, development and so on. in many places and that is why liberalisation is being proposed. But, at the same time, when you propose that this should apply to the whole country, you get exactly the opposite. Then you strengthen the larger cities, the growth centres, and that will be de facto at the expense of rural areas and the places where they need it. So why not let it apply to some selected places in the country instead of everywhere, because that will de facto mean that the development that will then take place around the cities will be drawn from rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173456	No, I do not entirely agree with the rapporteur on that. The planning law will apply to the whole of Denmark. There are some instruments that apply in particular to the coasts, where we have seen in recent years, especially after the financial crisis, that there has been some decline. What you can live on out there is a lot of different things, but one of the things you have chosen to bet on in many places or want to bet on in the future is tourism. This is where the new law provides for the possibility of developing the tourism industry out there. You also get the opportunity to develop the retail trade out there. I think that people who have the opportunity to shop in a shop located 5-10 km away prefer it to drive to a city 80-100 km away. So yes, there will still be activity, although the legislation is the same across the country. So I don't believe in the fact that this draft law is going to strengthen the centres at the expense of rural areas. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173556	A lot of other people do, including me. in many of the hearings. For example: says the Joint Council of Rural Regions that they fear that the relaxation of retail regulations will help to weaken the foundations of grocery stores and smaller shops in smaller towns. Can the rapporteur not at all see a problem in these relaxations and understand the concern that has been expressed in many consultation responses, where it is feared that one's local merchant is being used, or whatever it may be, simply disappears because of these relief areas as they are called, or the extension of the detailed rules? Can the rapporteur not understand the concern of a great many hearing responses?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173644	Of course, we have read the consultation answers, and from them we have also gone in and addressed in some places in the final legislative proposal that we are discussing today. We need to see how developments are going to be based on the conciliation we have made. I am pleased, as I mentioned earlier in my rapporteur's speech, that by July 2020 we will have to make an evaluation of this. If we see a tendency towards some of the points made by the rapporteur, it will of course be appropriate to take up the conciliation circle and we will have to see if there is something that needs to be corrected. However, we are on the goal of the agreement we have reached, and then we will have to see whether developments are going as we expect, or whether they go as the rapporteur expects, and if so, we will have to consider it by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173723	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173725	Has the Social Democrat rapporteur been aware that the liberalised land-zone rules actually mean the lifting of the Finger Plan, which is over 70 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173737	As I have read out, the Finger Plan still applies. We've had the discussion about this, but judging from the hearings, the Finger Plan should still be in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173754	So I have to understand that the rapporteur does not think that these liberalised rules should apply in the green wedges of the capital's Finger Plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173803	That was a trick question. You must try to put a written question to the Minister on this during the committee procedure so that we can clarify it. But after what we've discovered, the Finger Plan exists. Whatever else is of technical interaction, we must try to take it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173824	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173827	Thank you. Now we are jointly on the goal of this agreement, and that is a good thing, because then we can help each other to achieve this. But there is just one thing I would like to turn a little over on this occasion, namely this concept that has been put in place: areas of development in the coastal area. It will only have to be implemented at a later stage, but I am thinking of the fact that you can see that there is not much left if there is an island like that on such an island. Langeland, as we all know, must be moved 3 km in from each side. So it is very good that there are also some areas of development. So I just have to ask such a quiet and friendly question: does the rapporteur agree that it is important that we put these development zones into effect, so that there is a real content in them too, so that we did not see everywhere but defined and targeted where we think so, for example. on Langeland, Ærø or anywhere else is given the opportunity to create a development exactly where they want it locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202173925	I am glad that, compared to the proposal from the Left, where the coastal proximity zone was to be abolished, we have gone in and brought these development areas with us. That is, of course, something we are aiming for; we think it is a good solution rather than an abolition. And yes, they need to be used in the way described in the bill. There are some indications of how to use them, among others. That those areas of development should not, of course, be places where there is a particular nature or a particular environment that may be affected but simply where the municipalities assess they can apply for it, they can be allowed to do so. I just think that is quite positive. It provides a good instrument locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174014	Thank you. It was perhaps understandable such a rather cautious approach to it. What is it like if you now come locally and apply for it exactly in a defined area? There are development areas, so it is quite clear that it should not just be everywhere, but that it should be possible to get some action behind it, as we often say from here, so that we at local level, where they know where the shoe is pulling and where they themselves want to do something to create development, and that is also an important part of the rural policy. So if you come locally and you point out that you want to do so there and now there will of course also be an interaction with the country plan directive and other things you can expect the support of the Social Democratic Party, that is, if you come and ask for it yourself locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174104	So I shall not be able to say what the local Social Democrats out there want to do, but here at Christiansborg we are on the goal that we have reached this agreement and that there are these opportunities with development areas. And we think it is a good solution, a good compromise we have reached, rather than the proposal that this 3-mile limit should be completely abolished. So we are on the goal of the agreement we have reached, Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174127	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174129	Thank you. Part of the proposal here is to liberalise the land-zone plans, so I have to hear: does the rapporteur think that the liberalised land-zone plans should apply to the capital's Finger Plan, that is to say the green wedges we have here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174150	In other words, we have reached an agreement and how the interaction technically is with the Finger Plan and various other regulations, you must try to clarify technically on committee issues when we consider the proposal. We stand at the mark of the agreement we have reached and do not believe that anything could have been opened up to overthrow the capital. But try to clarify this during the committee procedure; I am sure the Minister can help us all with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174218	Yes, but some specific rural regulations were introduced to promote development out there. Now we want to liberalise them, and that will apply everywhere. This means that it will apply to the green wedges in the Finger Plan. So it's a very special situation you open up to here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174238	I shall deal with that in the reply from the Minister during the committee's reading. In other words, as I have been presented to you now, it has to be said that I have not negotiated this agreement myself, because I had maternity leave, since our skilled negotiators sat with it and as I understand it, the wedges are in any case. And it shouldn't be that they're completely overturned by the fact that we've made this deal for a new law of plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174301	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174304	I fully agree that we can clarify some things during the committee procedure. I would like to ask the rapporteur's position: should the rules of the country which has been liberalised be applied to the Finger Plan? Do the rules have to come before the Finger Plan? What is the position of the Social Democratic Party on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174324	Well, those who have negotiated for us and from whom I have taken over this case have worked to ensure that the Finger Plan is in place and that the Finger Plan is able to develop as it has been up to now. That's what I've been handed down. And I think that is also what is contained in the agreement. For the agreement that has been reached in the capital of the Finger Plan has been the one that has been developed for many, many years, and I think that is still valid even after this comes into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174355	Should I then understand that if it turns out that this is a de facto repeal of the Finger Plan, then the Social Democrats will be involved in tabling an amendment because that is not what this agreement was made on the basis of?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174411	It must be understood that the social democracy is at the heart of the agreement we have reached. And if it is the case that some things are inappropriate, we take it in the evaluation and, if we agree with the conciliation circle, we can make adjustments by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174421	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen from the Social Democratic Party and we move on to the next rapporteur. His name is Hans Kristian Skibby, and he is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174432	L 121 is a single legislative proposal which contains a large number of different sub-elements in relation to the reorganisation of the existing law on plans. The present draft law dates back to 1992 and for the most part contains the legislation which dates back to the 1970s. So you can say that it has had many years on the back. That is why it is good that, in the course of the negotiations last year, we had a good and long process and negotiation in relation to making an evaluation of the law on plans and a reorganisation where we could find a majority in order for it to be appropriate. After all, it has resulted in this agreement, a broad political agreement, Denmark in better balance sheet, which we concluded with the then government, the Social Democrats and also the Conservative People's Party back in June 2016. We can now look forward to a number of improved opportunities for municipalities and local political government. In future, municipal councils will bear greater political responsibility, but will also have a greater degree of competence to deal with spatial planning. It will continue to take place in an open democratic process in which proposals for plans, etc. should be put forward for public consultation and local debate so that all views can also continue to emerge. There are various key elements to this bill. The Danish People's Party particularly welcomes the improved development opportunities we have been given for our production and development in our rural areas, better use of existing construction in rural areas and also in coastal areas. Then we also think it is good that we should have a freer framework for investment and administrative relief and that we should also do better in relation to tourism. We make changes in relation to when you can stay in your holiday home permanently, and also in the rules that must be around the rental of Danish leisure homes, where we also open up. In the Danish People's Party, we are also pleased that we have implemented the part about student residences • these famous container homes, which we have also got into this agreement. After all, we have some major challenges in finding accommodation for the many thousands of students who, in the years to come, will also come to our major study cities. We want a change in the future so that we can get some of these programmes out to other areas of Denmark, so that it doesn't all take place in Copenhagen, Aalborg and Aarhus. But we still have to recognise that when we have a challenge here and now, we also have to try to find a framework to solve it. In the Danish People's Party, we are also pleased that we have obtained the agreement on the relocation of recreational areas. Since an agreement was reached back in 2004 on these 8,000 holiday homes, it has been seen that in some places it has taken up areas for a long time, and it is therefore common sense if some of those places are converted into new places or are also deregulated, so that they are not still included as holiday areas. Then I would like to say something about what the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned in his speech on cheaper housing in Copenhagen, which was one of the things that the Socialists were happy to bring in. This is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party were less happy with, but we also recognise, of course, that when compromises are to be found, compromises must be found. It may well be that housing is becoming cheaper in the non-profit housing sector, but you just have to remember that the price is simply being put on the homes that are being sold to Danish house buyers who are not going to live in general use. There will be a higher price on those homes instead. But, of course, we support this bill and are actually very pleased with the overall planning agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174847	Before Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has the floor, I would like to call on the circle down here on the left to keep it down, as our rapporteur can hardly concentrate. You can whisper. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174903	Thank you. Before I ask my question, I would just like to say that I find it rather strange that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party is standing on the platform and is proud to have tried to oppose, that the law is actually being put into effect, that you have to secure some cheap housing. I thought that was also the benefit of the members and voters of the rapporteur's party. But that was not part of my brief comment. Again, I would like to ask a question about the retail trade and the amended regulations that are there. For DF often looks up as a party that would also like to be something for people living in rural areas, and we have, of course, received consultation answers after consultation answers, which are just concerned with this qualified fear that the villages and smaller towns will be emptied because competition simply suffocates the small local merchant. Will the rapporteur not tell us what thoughts DF has had in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202174959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175000	Well, in relation to grocery shopping, it is true that we in the Danish People's Party have had a very serious concern that there were plans to allow much larger shopping areas. This would mean that if you had a lot of new relief areas on the periphery of larger provincial towns, the new shopping areas would be a magnet in competition for customers who might typically go in and buy their groceries in the local grocery store in the smaller urban communities. This is also why the Danish People's Party has made some significant changes to the agreement, so that you only get permission for up to these 1,200 m2, including storage areas, staff facilities etc., if you want to build these grocery stores in those places. But with regard to committee stores and so on. It is true that we support the possibility of making much larger shops and also support the choice to change it, so that these size restrictions for committee stores are simply removed in some places. So we are quite confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175112	After all, daily grocery stores of 1,200 m2 are also a slats if they are located near smaller towns where people mainly make their purchases in the local farm or similar. But thank you for that detailed answer. We often discuss how these things are calculated, for example. That's 750 million. kr. in increased productivity and your and that. I do not want to bore people with such a technical discussion about the calculation models, but more to ask how the rapporteur himself sees the concept of productivity here, in other words in relation to the money it should give. Does the rapporteur consider, and perhaps this is a leading issue, the productivity gains here in the same way as I do, namely that there are far fewer people who have to deal with these consumer goods and that there are thus a large number of people in rural areas who are already struggling with unemployment who will be unemployed? And if the rapporteur does not agree with that definition, will the rapporteur explain why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175221	I fully acknowledge that when we make these models of market economy calculations in relation to what new legislation will bring about, it is very often some far-reaching calculations that come out. And in the Danish People's Party we don't have a great calculation that we trust, and that says that when we end up with these things, then it will result in so much and so much price reductions on the goods in the grocery sector, that is, because we are now getting this improved grocery legislation in relation to shops etc. However, we cannot escape the fact that we see in Denmark that we have relatively high consumer prices, also in relation to competition. So, of course, it could have an impact, but it's not something we've used as a parameter to support this overall planetary change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175307	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175322	I do not think anyone is in any doubt that we in the Left want a better balance for Denmark; a Denmark where in all parts of the country there is prosperity, growth and development, and where you look forward to the future; where you meet the future with optimism and hope; where there are jobs and opportunities and development. In fact, we thought so much that we went to the polls in 2015, and we mean it so much that we actually translate it into reality. We are in the process of relocating 4,000 government jobs. We have created a growth plan to ensure a better balance for Denmark. We have implemented an agricultural package that raises the food industry, which means a great deal in our rural areas. We have proposals to increase the mortgage credit limit for our summer homes. And together with a majority in the Folketing, we have put a fundamental focus on and taken initiatives to ensure healthy development in all parts of Denmark. That is why it was also our ambition to liberalise and modernise the planning law in Denmark. That is why last June the then Left Government reached a very good agreement on changes to, among others. The law of plans. Was our ambition higher than where we landed? Yeah, it was. But it is also important that, in this area, we can make broad agreements which are also in place if the political majority, against expectations, were to change in a forthcoming election. In fact, we have been involved in liberalisations on the part of the Left, which have subsequently been rolled back. That is why it is important, and it is therefore gratifying that we have reached a broad agreement. So it's a good day today. Indeed, the agreement and the legislative proposal that we are discussing are making a large number of improvements. I may not be able to reach them all, but a stripe has been mentioned. The purpose clause in the law will focus more on growth and development throughout Denmark, while, of course, maintaining the protection of nature and the environment. The state's ability to raise objections to local wishes is highlighted, so objections should only come if the wishes conflict with national interests, that is, a greater competence for our municipal politicians, where the tasks and responsibilities for local development should lie, yes, we give them much greater self-determination. A large number of old area bookings are to be cleaned up in order to identify additional experimental projects in addition to the 10 authorised. It has been agreed that it will be somewhere between 0 and 15. The aim is to create growth and development with respect for nature and the environment. The draft law gives municipalities the opportunity to identify development areas within the coastal proximity zone so that urban development or other measures to promote development can be planned. And let me just stress, for the sake of good order, that this cannot happen in areas with particular landscape, nature or environmental interests. The draft law also allows for the designation of up to 6,000 new holiday homes in the coastal area, if the municipalities simultaneously loop 5,000 designated summer homes where they are not used. We also ensure that there is an opportunity to regenerate burnt-down hotels in the beach protection line, yes, we guarantee the possibility that, for example, Svinklov Badehotel can be rebuilt. Municipalities are given greater flexibility in the planning of the retail trade. Selection shops must be possible to decide locally without limitation of size, and the size limit for retail stores should be raised to 1,200 m2 and in city centres and centres, the size limit should be raised from 3,500 m2 to 5,000 m2. There are better opportunities for housing in the rural area. There is an extension of businesses in the rural zone with the right to use holiday homes as a full-year residence after a single year's ownership. There is the possibility of granting a 10-year permit for temporary study accommodation, longer rental periods for holiday homes, conversion villages and much more. There are many good elements in the law. So this is a massive modernisation, and it is clear that this is something that concerns a great many people. I think we have been thorough about this during the consultation phase, but I also agree that there are further requests for the legislative proposal, and I can at least say that we on the Left are looking forward to a thorough committee procedure, in which we will also constructively listen to proposals which may help to ensure even more that we have a development for the benefit of the whole of Denmark, and so that we ensure that what we all want to talk about, namely a more favourable development for our rural areas, we also ensure that the legislation here from Christiansborg supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175829	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175833	Thank you. The rapporteur has been elected in an area of Denmark that has some challenges and wants some growth and employment and some life in the villages and in the smaller cities. That is also what is being addressed in this proposal. It must help rural areas. But the limits of the size of the grocery stores are now being raised. In urban centres and a large number of other places it is raised from 3,500 m2 to 5,000 m2, and for local centres the limit is raised from 1,000 m2 to 1,200 m2. The increase in the maximum size of the different types of grocery stores will inevitably make a dent in the very small towns and villages. My previous question to DF was really about that. That is also what we hear in the hearings. If the school closes, it means there's a grocery store in a village. We know that. This may mean the difference between the small town and the small town. Some of the answers to the hearings also go to that. I'll tell you what. Torsten Schack Pedersen not that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202175951	I think it makes very good sense for us in the Folketing to give the opportunity to organise as much locally as possible in the way that is found most appropriate locally. I think it makes good sense that, with the amendment of the planning law, we are allowing municipalities, with a more free framework, to organise the retail structure which is considered to be appropriate locally. I find it difficult to see that we should be as square on the issue as we have been here so far. I think this should be a more local decision, and now we are extending the framework for it. I am quite confident that the municipalities are giving the opportunities to plan their retail structure, their neighbourhood centres, as they want to do locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180044	The rapporteur did not answer my question at all as to whether this is something the rapporteur can see. Municipal boundaries can be such that a small town or village can lie right next to a neighbouring municipality, and they have no influence on what is decided there. This will inevitably create competition among different municipalities. I ask again: is the rapporteur not afraid that this could lead to considerable village deaths? That was one question. The second question I also put to DF is: does the rapporteur share the view that the productivity gains mentioned mean that much fewer people are employed in the consumer goods sector and therefore this productivity gain of 750 million? kr.? For those who might be watching, I would say that productivity improvements are most often an expression of fewer people having to do the same work. So what are these people gonna do? I am talking about all the people who are being fired and who are no longer working because of the so-called productivity gains. What are they going to do now compared to earlier where they stood at the local grocery store?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180154	I find it a little worrying if the SF is now beginning to be critical of improved productivity. That is, in fact, what helps to ensure that, as a society, we become richer, that real wages rise. I do not think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will experience anything negative about productivity from the platform. What matters is that we as customers decide which stores survive and which do not. We can see that the size of the stores is leaning up to the limits of the rules that are now in force. This is because there is a demand for it because customers want shops that are slightly larger and perhaps with a more varied supply. It's up to the customers. There are plenty of good examples of smaller merchants in small villages doing very well if they have strong local support. There are many fire-resistant merchants who do good business, but this presupposes that you make sure that your local population backs up. I think the most important thing is to ensure that it is the skilled merchant who survives, and whoever is less skilled is challenged; that is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180306	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180308	Thank you very much. In the consultation responses, great concern has been expressed by both the National Association of Local Authorities and the Danish Industry because of these relaxed country-zone rules. The municipalities are particularly afraid that the necessary planning cannot actually be made, that proper infrastructure cannot be provided, that various other things cannot be taken into account in the country. Will the Left be prepared to listen to both Danish Industry and the municipalities, who are concerned because of the relaxed country zone rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180335	I have to say that there is a reason why we have wanted to relax the rules that apply today, because we think they are too restrictive. We have been presented with far too many examples with, for example, a company in a abandoned agricultural property that cannot be extended and with properties that have not previously been used for agricultural purposes that cannot be used in business. There is a need to liberalise in this area precisely to ensure that when some people set up a business and succeed, they should not experience the law of plans as something that creates restrictions on the company's continued development, so that a successful business in our rural areas cannot expand. So our wish and what lies in the draft law is, in fact, absolutely central. If there is any interaction between some corners where there are concerns, we will of course always look at it during committee work. However, we have the basic approach that there are more development opportunities. This is, in fact, a central part of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180452	It may sound very nice that you just give the individual out there the right to build 500 m2. The problem is that the municipalities say that they cannot do anything, that they cannot object, that they cannot ensure that there is the necessary infrastructure, that they can be imposed on all sorts of things for which all possible neighbours have to pay. No neighbors will be heard on such a case. You just have a right to build something very big. When the municipalities say that it takes the opportunities away from them instead of giving them opportunities, does it not make an impression on the Left when you have just wanted to give the municipalities some more tools? Does it not make the impression that both the municipalities and the Danish Industry are experiencing this as an inappropriate way to proceed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180529	If I don't remember completely wrong, I think the option is there today for 250 m2. Now we're going to increase it to 500 m2. That is why it may seem rather sought to say that the world will be completely impossible for the municipalities to govern. I think it is a good thing that we are giving citizens and businesses more scope for enlargement. But like I said, we're gonna take another round and listen to what's there. Then we'll see. But my starting point is that we have actually landed it quite sensibly. Are there things that carambola and that have not been considered enough? I think we've been through an extremely long phase of this bill, but that's what we have committee work for here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180613	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180616	I just want to ask you a simple question. What kind of city does the rapporteur think it is most attractive to settle in? In a town where the city centre is emptied of business life and there is instead a mall somewhere outside the city, or in a city where there is still a living city centre to visit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180637	The good thing about being liberal is that I can only comment on what I think is nicer myself. What other people should think is best, I'm not trying to impose them. There are certainly different preferences. Of course, I can feel the underlying tone of the question. I actually thought that the Enhedslisten usually thinks it is important to respect local democracy and that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizens. What we are allowing for now is that the municipalities can decide more for themselves how they want to develop their retail trade. What opportunities will they offer in urban centres, in relief centres? It is true that there will be a freer framework than today, so that you can make local decisions that you think are most appropriate for your city and for your municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180731	Now the Left believes that this will make rural areas more attractive to work and live in, to settle in. We have heard that the land-zone rules are being liberalised, so that construction is given free rein and comes out of the control of the municipalities. You want much more construction in coastal areas, where there is a great nature, and you will then also give more opportunities for the retail trade to create relief centres with the risk of the city centre being emptied. The left must have some form of evidence or idea that that is what it takes. That's kind of what I'm asking. How does the Left think this will create development and better balance throughout Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180808	I'd be happy to take the productivity discussion back. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen was kind enough to refer to the Productivity Commission, which said that there is a potential for creating more relaxed rules for our retail trade. We have a shortfall in productivity in our retail trade. We have prices which, even taking into account taxes and taxes and everything else, are relatively high. There is often criticism of a lack of competition on food prices, so Danish consumers pay too high prices for their food due to a lack of competition. We are doing something about that. I think that this should be welcomed because, with better competition, we can, hopefully, ensure that Danish consumers have a more varied supply of goods and, hopefully, lower prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180859	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202180923	Thank you very much. We have a bill in our hands for a new law of plans which, fortunately, does not fully reflect the thoughts of the far-reaching liberalisation of the law of plans, which was part of the act of the previous government, the V government, the growth and development of the whole of Denmark. You can see in this bill some positive impressions from some of the conciliation parties, and we would like to sign for that. In the Enhedslisten we particularly welcome the fact that plans for a green Denmark map have come alive. Denmark has not only some of the smallest natural area in Europe, but also some of the most poor nature. That is why we are pleased that this work is now being set in motion. But here the positive messages from the Enhedslisten stop too. Because the proposal still contains a number of very worrying elements for our nature and for our rural areas. In general terms, we believe that the draft law is in fact a dispute with what the law of plans has represented for so many years. This is perhaps one of the best planning laws in the world with this idea that planning should be a key tool for creating better cohesion in our country. Several elements of this bill will, in our opinion, mean less cohesion. More elements will not lift up rural areas, on the contrary. The bill could have a huge impact on our coasts. The government breaks the promise to preserve the coastal proximity zone and introduces a new concept called the development area. These are areas in the coastal proximity zone where urban development and facilities may be available and where the coastal proximity zone may be requested every four years. This can have quite major consequences for our coastal landscapes over time, as coastal nature can become much more fragmented and mean a greater degree of settlement. It may upset us a little that the detailed rules under which this will be administered have not yet been published. We find it rather problematic that we should deal with a legislative proposal without having the opportunity to see through what the consequences will actually be for the coastal nature of the country. The liberalisation of land-zone rules, as proposed by the bill, means, among other things, that the land-zone rules are changed so that both housing and professions can in future expand existing buildings by up to 500 m2, without any form of authorisation being sought, and without the municipality's approval and without neighbouring consultation. We quite disagree with the fact that carte blanche can only be given for the expansion of large homes and commercial properties without any kind of permission. We simply do not understand why this liberalisation is allowed to apply to all rural areas whose aim is to help the needy rural areas and to bring about life and growth in the country. The problem is that these new rules are likely to be used, where the resources are available, where the desire for investment and loan possibilities are best. This means that it will typically be in rural areas in the capital region and around other major cities in the country that we will see that these rules will be used. This means that these changes will benefit the urban areas far more than the rural areas in need which the agreement aims to help. It will only increase the disparities between urban areas and other rural areas. This bill is in no way aimed at creating a Denmark in balance, which the former government, the Left Government, has so diligently used as an argument. The current draft law can also make use of the relaxations in the rural area of the capital region, and this will mean that there is a risk of a dispute with the Finger Plan, which has so far ensured that the capital region does not grow arbitrarily in all directions, but grows in the form of a palm with fingers, with good train connections, etc. This is not appropriate as the land zone of the capital region is heavily under pressure for both housing and business construction. And that is what we have already discussed with the Socialist rapporteur and which we will discuss in greater detail during the committee procedure in order to gain a more concrete overview of what this is going to mean. Another element that concerns us is the new rules on retail trade, which I also mentioned in my question to the Left. As with the amended country-zone rules, it seems that the new retail rules are going to run counter to the purpose of the bill to strengthen opportunities for growth and employment and settlement throughout Denmark, because it will make it possible to put relief centres and retail stores outside the cities more effectively, thereby putting cities at risk of their shopping life being drained. Overall, I can say that we are very concerned about the consequences of this bill on the coastal nature of the country, and we do not understand how the government and the conciliation parties can declare the bill as a lever to strengthen the opportunities for growth and employment. We can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181444	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181448	Basically, it has to be said that in the consultation answers we have received there is broad support for the liberalisation of the planning law, because that is what I just want to hear a little about, is why the Enhedslisten does not trust that the decisions that concern citizens and businesses in the individual municipalities can be taken locally. Why does Enhedslisten not trust the local democracy in this matter? Because that is what is actually the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181522	I think we are underestimating how important the planning law has actually been in all the years it has existed in order to ensure coherent development in our country; in terms of ensuring that urban areas and urban development were located in special places; in terms of ensuring, after all, that we still have some natural areas. We should then use the Planning Act to a much greater extent to ensure that natural areas that were coherent were created. That, then, is what we are beginning to do with the green Danish map, which I also praised in my introduction. But this is a fundamental contradiction with the Left, with regard to whether you believe in planning and whether you believe that planning is important to ensure sensible development in this country, or whether you think that you should just give it free in a great liberalisation, and then it has to go as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181617	Or do you think that Christiansborg is the best place to make decisions that concern citizens and businesses in the country's municipalities? Do we not trust that our local politicians have an interest in protecting, ensuring proper development, listening to local wishes and interests, in allowing them to decide something more? Otherwise, everything has to be driven from in here. I just have to say that I am surprised that there is such an abysmal difference in Enhedslisten's belief in local democracy in this matter, in relation to how we in the Left view the possibilities for local decision-making to be made far more widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181705	There are two elements in this that are a little funny. Firstly, I would just really like to recommend to the rapporteur that consideration be given to what this draft law has actually meant for the development of our country, and whether it really was a completely horrible development, that it has been managed and allowed to develop within a certain framework, so that there was a balanced weighting between different interests. And then I am also surprised that there will now be opportunities for significant expansion of existing buildings, without the municipalities even being given the opportunity to intervene. I do not believe that the municipalities should be able to control developments, as the rapporteur says in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181747	Thank you to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Welcome to sir. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181756	Thank you for the floor. This is really only good. It is, as a sister's proposal, that we have debated earlier today, in such a way as to implement the agreement in which the words 'better balance' form part of the heading of the agreement. And, as we have also mentioned earlier today, in this respect, there is a continuing imbalance when we are in a little Liberal Alliance that has entered into this agreement after joining the Triple Government a few months ago, and that is why we are of course also voting in favour of the bill in question. But that doesn't mean we've changed our mind in this context. We still believe that the bill in question is a little too liberal. Clearly, we would have liked to have been able to go a little further, and that was also the approach we had in the negotiations at the time, and that is why we ended up being outside the agreement. After the formation of the government, we have agreed to the agreement. So all in all, that's the way it is. I do not want to delay this any more than to say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181923	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202181932	The alternative will vote against the proposal. After all, it is a good idea to work towards the development of urban areas, not least in the smaller towns and rural areas. In the alternative, we are very concerned about creating a more coherent Denmark or a Denmark in better balance, as the parties to the agreement call it. We acknowledge that it may be relevant to look at the law of plans in the process and would very much like to acknowledge at first that the green Danish map has come in. However, if we are against it, it is because we believe that this proposal has taken a wrong overall view of the draft law. We believe that it contains a number of steps in the wrong direction. We are liberalising the planning rules and continuing to free agriculture from planning frameworks, and we are also changing the purpose of the planning law. After all, the planning law has always had a very good purpose to balance social interests, especially in terms of nature, the environment and landscape value. With the bill, the government has wanted to expand the purpose of demands for economic growth. At a time when it is more important than ever that we remove the focus from short-term economic growth and look at things in a slightly larger perspective, I am surprised that an agreement that should be about balance will, at the same time, have a goal of economic growth. Fortunately, the wording has been preserved with respect for nature, the environment and the landscape, but on the other hand, it provides for a revision and liberalisation of the land-zone rules. Last time the land-zone rules were relaxed, special rural regulations were introduced so that the relaxed rules could only be used in particularly disadvantaged rural areas, which were then intended to help with the relaxations. Now the whole country is being relaxed and the special rural regulations are being removed. Outside the major cities and rural areas, there are many challenges posed by declining employment and a weak housing market. I fully acknowledge that and it is also something that we in the Alternative believe something needs to be done about. However, with the amendments I have just mentioned here, it is spreading so widely that there is no longer any special aid for the disadvantaged regions. In other words, this means favouring the areas of resource strength rather than highlighting the areas under threat. It's a really bad idea. It appears that the aim is to make it more attractive to live and live in rural areas, but making the rules equal for all parts of the country rather than allowing them only to apply in these particular rural areas will happen the opposite. The reliefs also apply to the capital region of those parts of the green wedges which are landzones. It is potentially a disaster for the landscapes of the capital, where the planners are already fighting a brave battle to ensure landscape considerations. In the past, the region of the capital has been excluded from relaxed land-zone rules, and this should, of course, continue to be done. One thing I would like to address is the special status of agriculture in the planning act. In accordance with the rules in force, agriculture shall have the right to construct the buildings necessary for its operation as agricultural property. This may require a permit, in relation to where the building is located, if it is longer than 20 metres from existing settlements, but now the rules are extended to apply not only to a property but to a holding. This means that if a farmer has a holding consisting of five properties, he can without permission build his buildings on the same property for as long as he can prove that he needs the buildings somewhere on the farm. At the same time, the Planning Act states that no local plans may be made for agricultural buildings. This has always been the case because agriculture has had a special position, but this should be done when the buildings have grown so large and at the same time the concept of property is abolished, so that the buildings can now be spread all over the place or, vice versa, assembled into a huge mass of buildings in one place. Then there should be a demand for local planning so that a clear framework can be created for the location of buildings, how they should look, etc., in the same way as for all other professions. In the alternative, we can easily see the need for an adjustment of the law of plans when it comes to agriculture. We would like to adjust so that it opens up a sustainable settlement of the agricultural land and puts a damper on the agricultural factory building, which is being set up here. We will, for example: to look instead at opportunities to promote permaculture agriculture and forestry and the kind that is part of the future. In relation to the retail trade rules, I am quite concerned about the larger shops, because this will increase the inappropriate development of cities losing shops because they are run out by large shopping centres outside the cities. And then it is quite interesting when Dansk Detail writes in their hearing answer: "Overall, it is our view that the retail regulations in this bill open up so many uncertainties, uncertainties and interpretations that there is a considerable risk of a significant number of complaints and legal proceedings in order to clarify the retail regulations. The fact that individual cases end up being a cornerstone of the legislation in an otherwise well-functioning legislation with this change of law may be something that we in the Danish Parliament should consider carefully before we go in that direction. Finally, I would like to highlight the response from Viktor Reddersen, because this is in fact in line with what we are working for in the alternative. He writes: "Today the law does not allow the new one - that there is more than one housing unit in a land estate. You can then apply for a land zone permit and possibly be allowed to expand by a maximum of 250 square metres in one more housing unit. We ask whether it is not time to look at whether that limitation should be lifted or maybe completely removed when we talk about existing operating buildings • By relaxing quite cautiously on the planning law, you would allow the rural areas to rethink the farms for settlement communities, opportunities for integration of refugees, collectives or even generations in the same place. New opportunities rather than decay. With this quote, I will round off and repeat that the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202182553	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll for the thorough rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202182605	Thank you very much. We sometimes discuss the law of plans, and I think it is worth saying that it does not have a very good name, because the law of plans will easily sound like something like that with a planned economic attack on the population. And in reality, the more we are talking about a law of consideration that takes into account many interests that must be in the same country, or a kind of cohesion law for how we can make our country hang together, or a law that deals with how we can make cities stay cities and be alive and preserve our open country less built-in and more open and free, so that people can also choose to settle down places where there is no scattered settlement all over the place. That's why I've issued a fatwa earlier in my life about the word "planlov," but I haven't really figured out the really good name. I sometimes think it is very easy to make it sound as if those who are in favour of planning do not like freedom and as if those who oppose planning and the law of plans are enormously lovers of freedom. But you always have to remember that one's freedom is the other's lack of freedom, right? So you can give a citizen a lot of rights, as you do with this bill, but then there are some neighbors and some considerations that are not taken into account. So I would like to say that it has been a very interesting process to follow this planetary act that started with the fact that the Left really gave it gas. And it was probably a strategy to propose just to remove everything, because it could then be that it ended somewhere in between. Then, of course, quite sensible forces came into the debate and I would like to commend both the Conservatives and the Social Democrats for having the country a planned law agreement that is, in fact, very, very sensible. The part we are talking about today is in the direction of giving the municipalities some more responsibility for making plans for themselves which parts need to be developed, among other things. in the coastal zone. I think that is a good idea, especially if we can sort out more clearly what the state interests are, and perhaps also say to the municipalities that it may well be that it is not every four years, but every ten years, that they must have an opportunity to include new land within an overall plan. At any rate, it is a good idea, like taking the consequences of the municipal reform that we have had, to say: well, there is more influence, and therefore there must also be more responsibility for the municipalities, but in return, the interests of the state and what requires state planning must also be clear. So I actually think there are some good steps in this direction. I also think it is sensible enough to cancel 5,000 reservations for cottages and make room for 6,000 new ones. It is thus some reservations that have been there for many years and are not really used and then you might be able to use it to give some opportunities elsewhere, without necessarily meaning much more construction. Then I would like to say that the thing that concerns me most is, of course, the one that concerns the relaxed land-zone rules, which should now apply throughout the country. The problem is that the municipalities are losing a very great deal of influence, and they also write in their hearing answer that it is a paradox that during a period when you want to give the municipalities more influence, you actually deprive them of the opportunity to plan for this by giving citizens an immediate right to expand to 500 m2 of accommodation or take away not just a abandoned agricultural property, but any property, and make up to 500 m2 of business in it. Then we had a discussion with the Social Democrat rapporteur on whether the country-zone rules which have been relaxed here will also apply in the wedges of the Finger Plan. This has been clarified, and it can be read in the hearings that they do. These rules will apply in the wedges, there are no particular considerations there, and that means that there will be much more scattered settlements in the green wedges in the Copenhagen area, with meaning for everything that is the foundation of the Finger Plan, namely that for 70 years it has been said that there must be something special in these green zones. They are also under extra pressure, because it is interesting to get close to the metropolitan area, but a little cheaper than inside the cities. And that is what worries me: that industry will start moving into these areas because it is a little cheaper than being in industrial areas. I do not think this rule is going to benefit the whole country, but it is going to mean a great deal where there are already towns and where industry is going to lie a little outside industrial areas. And it also makes it more difficult for municipalities to manage things. Furthermore, there may be a problem for agriculture that if someone has an immediate right to expand, there are suddenly noise rules or smell rules which may cause problems for agricultural enlargement. So it is a very good example that giving a single person some freedom can cost a lot of other people some freedom. I know that in Frederiksborg County Newspaper the other day you could read about a family that up in Lynge has built a house in the assumption that they were in a green wedge and had invested in it, but that now with the new law... if you pass this... there's an upcycling center right next to them, right next to where they've invested in a new house in this free area, where there's going to be 500 trucks a day. And they cannot do anything; they do not even have an opposition right. I think this is a very good example of how it is very cool to give a freedom to one citizen, but what about all the neighbours? What about a municipality that has to secure suitable infrastructure? Is that wise? That is why I would like to put out a hand from the Radical Left and say that if we can have this part looked at; that if we can get the influence back to the municipalities; that if we can look at this immediate right with new eyes and perhaps ask whether it is wise to apply it in the area of the Finger Plan, then we actually think it would be enough to vote for this whole bill too. So we go constructively to it, but have this very, very serious concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202183131	Thank you very much to Mrs Ida Auken. Then I think we should try a SF, namely Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202183146	This bill is called a modernisation of the planning law, but it isn't. Modernisation will require an in-depth analysis and analysis with a view to carrying out a thorough review of the Planning Act. Today, the law is very incalculable as a result of the many changes that have been made since it was first introduced over 40 years ago. In some respects, the law on plans is no longer in line with the more fundamental changes that have taken place in society since then. Let me just mention the demands for necessary reduction in emissions of climate gases, reduced use of all kinds of resources and the need for climate adaptation of our coasts and cities. These are needs which should not only be addressed in sectoral legislation, but which must be considered in the overall planning of the development of our nature and the built-up environment. So the essence of this bill is the liberalisation of the law of plans. It's about limiting society's and citizens' influence on the country's development and planning, why not be honest instead of newspeak, spin, using positive words about modernisation. Mayors, peasants and builders must have better conditions, the framework must be loosened, and the local authorities can, with the change of purpose, give greater priority to growth and development than before, as stated in the comments to the amended paragraph of purpose. This is to be seen in the context of the Law on the Board of Appeal, which was adopted by a majority before Christmas, which quotes • "to reflect a better balance between the considerations of growth and development in respect of nature and the environment. However, development and growth have always been essential elements in the planning of the municipalities, and there are many examples of priority being given to growth and development over the consideration of nature and the environment. I would like to commend and say that it is very good that biodiversity is supported in a new formulation of the purpose clause, but it is not enough to ensure that the law on plans helps to stop the decline in biodiversity, that the quote is supported............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a bureaucrat formulation which is so elastic that it does not add anything to the often reused formulation that quotes continue to be protected by the country's nature and environment. None of the wordings ensures that the bill improves the environment, nature or biodiversity. It is also clear from the comments that this is a clarification and reference is made to the ongoing drafting of the green Danish map, which came into the law under the previous government. The question could then be asked: why not, for once, promote nature, the environment and biodiversity? Is the government's thinking really that growth is not compatible with better environment, less pollution and progress in species wealth and nature? I would also like to highlight two general considerations and to consider the more detailed proposals in the committee's work, in which we also have a large number of amendments and questions. After all, we hear a lot about democracy and local democracy in this debate. Compared to the shorter consultation periods, public involvement becomes an illusion. The general comments stress the importance of public involvement in planning. However, with the reduction of the period from 8 to 4 weeks and in some cases 2 weeks, the possibility of ordinary people and associations making comments is effectively removed. The pressure for shorter consultation periods does not come from the municipal environment, but is created by parts of the business community who cannot understand that it really must take so long to adopt a local plan proposal which they often perceive as clapped off with Technical Management in advance. Thus, a very lack of acceptance of the democratic right of citizens to participate in the planning process. Then there are questions of legal certainty or lack of it. A law is, of course, a legal document which the authorities would like to provide with the necessary clarity. However, as can be seen from the comments submitted by the combined merchants, this bill is far from being the case. On the contrary, the use of language in the legislative text creates considerable legal uncertainty and that uncertainty cannot be clarified by any body of appeal, since only legal issues can be the subject of an appeal. This seems to create the basis for significantly different relationships between the municipality and the municipality. The citizen's access to appeal is for example. questions about the compatibility of local plan proposals with the requirements of the Local Plan Act, and the new language in the legislative text will make an appeal more difficult. It may sound very boring, so it is often with legal certainty that it sounds boring until you do not have it anymore. Let me conclude by commenting on the main message that the government and the parties to the agreement are making over and over again, namely that this creates rural development. This proposal is going to drain the retail trade of small towns and villages, simply. It is also the concern of the consultation answer from the Landsforening Villages in Denmark and from the Rural Council and many others. The SF has tabled the same proposal on several occasions, and we are happy to do so again, namely a plan to strengthen rural areas with 11 specific proposals. I would just like to highlight a few of them here: better lending opportunities in the outermost regions, support for micro-enterprises and entrepreneurship, more support for demolition, i.e. the demolition pool, shared municipal tax, so that you share between your local community and, for example, the local community. its summer cottage municipality, several educational institutions in the outermost regions, a regional hour model for trains and buses and an impact assessment of all legislative proposals in relation to their impact on rural areas. There are none of these proposals that you have wanted to support, although it would mean significantly more and make a world of difference for rural and smaller cities • contrary to this proposal. So the SF cannot support the present bill on the Planning Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202183819	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No one felt challenged to short remarks. We move on to the last rapporteur from the parties, Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202183832	The bill is the implementation of the agreement reached widely in the Folketing to create a better balance for Denmark. The Conservative People's Party is part of the agreement and can therefore, of course, support the bill. The law on plans must help to set the framework for development throughout the country. The current legislation is based on rules from the 1970s, and therefore it has long been a wish that a more modern version of the law of plans be created which takes more account of the challenges facing society today compared to 40 years ago. I believe that the draft law contains a great many good and important improvements to the legislation, which help to strengthen the basis for growth and development throughout the country. Overall, it is intended to increase the local impact on development, which I think is a very good step forward. I think it is important that we show greater confidence in local elected local authorities in relation to local development. After all, they are the ones who know the local conditions best, and I think that there are a lot of people out there who are going to be really happy with the new opportunities offered by this new law of plans. The new possibilities will help to improve the conditions for the development of the outermost regions, for example: by relocating coastal summer cottage areas and increasing the use of summer homes. This will in turn help to support tourism, which in turn supports local traders, craftsmen, experience industries, restaurants, etc. I myself come from an area which is very limited, for example. such things as the planning law, Natura 2000 sites, Ramsar areas, and what else it is called. It is often a source of great frustration. I believe, of course, that we have some nature to safeguard and, of course, we must take care of our beautiful shores, and of course, our open landscapes should not be built uninhibited. But there must also be balance. There must be the right balance to ensure that, as a citizen of coastal areas, islands or rural areas, we have the opportunity to lay the foundations for our own development within a reasonable framework. I think we have struck a very good balance with this political agreement that was reached this summer and that the bill is the result of. That is why I can tell you that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184101	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184103	Thank you. There is a great deal of talk about local democracy and that one should be allowed to do one thing and the other around the municipalities. But what does the rapporteur say about the fact that this bill suggests that a minister may be the current one, it may be a later one may trump a unanimous council's decision on what one wants one's municipality to look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184131	It is true that there are quite a lot of places in the bill where there will be more local influence, and I think that is very positive. Then, of course, there may also be some considerations that weigh more heavily than local considerations, and there may be reason enough to have some areas where the Minister can go in and perhaps make some other decisions than the local ones. But basically, I think it is important that the decisions that may be local are made locally. I think that is something that is being put forward to a greater extent now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184158	Okay, then I'd like to ask another question. I do not know whether the rapporteur heard this before, but I also tried to show that the SF has a large number of proposals to strengthen rural areas, to bring some of them up from the platform. One of the problems that is actually the greatest in rural areas is that they cannot get mortgages because there are black spots on the map. The rapporteur will certainly know all about this. Even if you have a healthy economy, you cannot get a mortgage because your home is almost too cheap. If you're a small grocery store like Spar the grocery store in Øster Brønderslev, which I visited a while ago, and you have a business that goes really, really well, and you want to expand, you can't. There are a large number of problems with mortgage loans, and that is some of what really slows down developments in these places. After all, one of our proposals was to create a parallel mortgage system where, of course, only if there is order in the economy, mortgage loans could be taken up. Now, of course, the rapporteur cannot promise anything from the platform, but could it be something that Conservatives would look at together with the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184303	I don't think so. I would say that what is important in terms of lending to the outermost regions is, of course, to ensure that there is an opportunity, for example. to maintain some jobs in the area. For it is so that the more life you can create in the areas, the greater the likelihood that you can sell your house. As a result, mortgage credit institutions also have better opportunities to lend within the framework that they now have. Because they also have to make sure that there is some security in relation to the mortgage credit system. So I do not imagine that we are going to have to set up a state system in relation to mortgage loans to outlying areas, but I imagine that we need to ensure a better framework, and we are doing so, among other things. with such a legislative proposal that we are dealing with today, so that we have better opportunities to grant loans, including to the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184346	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Anders Johansson. And then it is my pleasure to welcome the country's Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202184358	Thank you very much. Thank you for those, I think, relevant and interesting comments on the proposal. I think that some of the points reflect a pre-sceptic attitude towards a broad, sensible settlement, in which one chooses to see the negative aspects of it instead of focusing on the great opportunities this offers for development in all parts of Denmark, while at the same time managing to maintain a reasonable balance. For the whole purpose of the review here and the amendment of the law of plans is to create better opportunities for growth and development throughout Denmark, while at the same time protecting nature and a good environment. The starting point is the agreement of the government that was made by the then government, the V government, with the Social Democratic Party, the KF and DF, on a better balance sheet for Denmark from June 2016. The law of plans helps to set the framework for development opportunities throughout Denmark, but we must note that the law of plans has not followed time in all areas, and there are many examples today that the law of plans creates challenges in relation to the initiative and commitment of companies and citizens, who are supposed to create growth and development locally. That is why a broad majority in the Folketing has now agreed on modernisation, which we have discussed this afternoon, in which we adjust the law in a number of areas, so that it will, I think, support potentials and improve opportunities for growth and development in all parts of Denmark. After all, we are removing growth barriers in spatial planning, and we are opening up new opportunities for development in, among others. rural areas in the tourism industry and also in the retail trade. And this is happening in a way where municipalities, companies and citizens will have better opportunities to create growth and development together, and, not least, where we are and this is also important to me as Minister ■ protects nature and the environment. I will give you a few examples of this, because we have heard some other examples in the debate here, and then I think it is important to tell you just what the real world is like in this proposal. The draft law contains a number of new opportunities that support urban growth and development. With the bill, we give greater opportunity to exploit buildings in the land zone that are unused to it may be a abandoned farm, a former school or a closed dairy. So there will now be an opportunity to settle and set up a business in what has been redundant buildings without having to apply for permission first. We are also making the framework for agriculture more up-to-date. There will be better opportunities to build operating buildings, as well as the possibility of visiting facilities and the like. At the same time, the draft law means that the municipalities must take more account of the development potential of the production companies by defining in future areas of activity reserved for production companies. Then cottage owners, and I think this is welcome, will have the opportunity to use their holiday home for a greater part of the year, and retired holiday home owners will have the right to live in their summer house for a whole year, even after they have lived there for one year. I think that is an opportunity that many pensioners will be happy about. The draft law also provides a number of new development opportunities in coastal areas. This means that municipalities will now be able to identify development areas where there is greater access to urban development and to build new facilities. In order to provide better conditions for tourism, it is also possible for municipalities to set up and reposition coastal cottage areas. Then there has been some discussion about the retail trade. I believe that what we should be trying to do by the Danish Parliament is to create a reasonable framework for the retail trade to be able to take care of itself. And I think that's what we've created with this new plan law. We would like productivity to be strengthened and we would also like to offer a greater supply of goods and lower prices. Against this background, therefore, we have opened the door to major shops and we have also removed the size restrictions for committee stores. It is complemented by new opportunities to establish and expand relief areas in cities across the country where there is a sufficient customer base. But we have also ensured, and I think it is important that it is not just the wild West that there are some rules that ensure that we still have shops in all parts of Denmark. And I think that diversity is important; that pluralism is important in relation to the whole area, so that citizens in all parts of Denmark have access to retail trade. Finally, the draft law provides for a more flexible and digital administration and allows municipalities to make better use of resources in spatial planning through new planning tools. Among other things: a new possibility of derogation from local plans is introduced for the temporary use of land, for example: temporary study accommodation which can help to alleviate the lack of study accommodation. We reached a 10-year derogation, as proposed by most of the Danish Parliament's parties, starting with the Danish People's Party. This is included in the bill here, which allows students to obtain study accommodation more easily in the study cities. At the same time, we shorten the consultation period for less intrusive plans and introduce a new, simplified local planning tool for minor changes to local plans. This means administrative simplification of the planning process in the municipalities so that citizens and businesses do not have to wait for a very long time for minor changes, but it is on the clear assumption that municipalities should continue to devote sufficient time to public participation, neighbouring consultation, etc. The democratic process remains in focus. In addition, the changes to more digital administration involve modernising legislation in the light of digital developments. So in view of it, I think, good debate that has been here now, I am sure that overall the bill will provide significantly better opportunities for growth, development and settlement throughout Denmark, while at the same time safeguarding a good environment and a rich nature. Thank you for your comments. I imagine that there will be a lot of questions when we have to deal with this in committee, and I will of course be available in the debate that will come when the matter is dealt with in the Committee on Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185022	We thank the Minister, but a few of the questions are already coming, the first from Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185029	With the new law there are some relaxed rules, so you are right just as someone who has a building, to expand to 500 m2 of accommodation or occupation. Does the Minister recognise that it can cause problems for the municipalities in order to make things work together when the citizens are right here, without the municipality being able to do anything at all if the infrastructure is not there or if it has an impact on noise and smell rules from nearby farms or other things? Does the Minister agree with what KL writes in their hearing answer that it actually deprives them of a planning opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185104	My immediate view of it would be that here we must always be on the side of the citizen, and here there are some rights that the citizen has, but it is clear that the people who live around must be taken into account for the professions that are around, and this is a dialogue that we must have in the further process, but the reason why it is proposed in the proposal that is, and the parties in this way agree, is that there are also rights for the citizen in this. Of course, the people around you and the professions around you must be taken into account. At first sight, I do not see the major problems in it, but we have to deal with that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185144	After all, the citizens are also the neighbours, so if you only give the individual right, you just forget that there are a lot of citizens around. We have tended to hear only the trouble of those who could not build anything, but did not hear the sighs of relief from all those who were happy that there was order in the landscape, and that one did not get built straight up against one another. I would like to ask the Minister whether he believes that the relaxed land-zone rules should apply in the green wedges of the Finger Plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185214	I also heard the question from the Socialist rapporteur before. Well, the Finger Plan isn't gonna change this, it's important to make it clear. This isn't gonna change the fingerboard. It is true that the same rules will apply in the rest of the country in relation to the wedges, for example. house size will also apply in the metropolitan area as in the rest of the country, but the very principle of the Finger Plan will not change at all. There will be some minor changes, because the same rules will apply to the wedges as in the rest of Denmark, but the Finger Plan will still remain. I am very aware of this, and I think it is relevant that Mrs Ida Auken raises it here, and I will be aware of that during the committee's reading, also in relation to the previous question. I do not see the major problems in it, but if someone raises it as a major problem, we will have to discuss it and then we will have to take it together on the basis of the conciliation circle, and then we will have to take it in committee. However, right now I am not putting forward any amendments, but if the conciliation parties are prepared to do so, then we will have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185316	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185318	Thank you. I actually had another question, but I will come back with it, because I do not think the Minister gave Ida Auken a proper answer. Because it is not just a Copenhagen problem. These are all green urban areas, which are now subject to the same legislation, and the Minister makes it sound as if he does not want to change these conditions. But what is happening with the bill is precisely that it opens up. So to be on the safe side, you have to narrow it down in the law. One of the problems that we have faced over and over again is that it now applies everywhere. So will the Minister help to look at a change in legislation that excludes both the Finger Plan in Copenhagen, but actually also the green urban areas and other parts of the cities in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185415	It is important to state here, also to the SF rapporteur, that the Finger Plan is unanticipated. That is what I said, and it is still my conclusion. We have a Finger Plan, and we will be discussing it in the coming year too. The Finger Plan is unanticipated. Then there are some wedges where the same rules will apply as in the rest of the country with some minor, marginal changes. I personally have no problem with that. If anyone has a problem with that, you have to discuss it. I do not think this is essential, so I am sticking to the proposal that we have now and which I believe means that the citizens of the metropolitan area will have the same conditions as in the rest of Denmark. That is why I think it is balanced very well and the country very well with the agreement made last summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185505	This bill is gonna open up. And when the Minister says that we have to talk about it, that is what we are doing here in the Assembly. Because when the bill is passed, it's too late. However, I would like to ask another question: in many parts of the legislative proposal, the Minister will be able to make changes and make recommendations. When the Minister speaks so much about local democracy and when one has to allow the municipalities to do one thing and the other, I would like to ask the Minister whether he will guarantee from the Speaker's Chair that he will not impose a decision in which, for example, he does not impose it. a majority of a municipal council somewhere disagrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185542	No, I won't guarantee that. The reason why we have included this in the agreement is that there may be national considerations which are so important that the Minister must intervene. I do not see myself having to take personal action against municipal self-government, so that is not something I have any intention of doing. I have no idea where it should be, but I will not guarantee it, because that is precisely why that paragraph is included. It is because there may be national considerations which are also of importance to nature and the environment that make it necessary to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185614	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185616	Thank you. The Minister says that the Finger Plan will not be changed, but that there may be changes in the green wedges, and that is precisely the point of some of what we are debating here today and which is our common concern. The green wedges are, you might say, part of the capital's central park, namely the small areas that are so important to free when you have a capital where you are built closer and closer, and that is precisely what we have to do to keep them as they are. But if you open up all the way up as there is in this proposal, it is the land zone, wherever it is, and there you will be able to do the things that change the green wedges to what we do not want. So what exactly does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185710	I am not directly concerned because the same rules will apply to the rest of the country, and I do not think that the citizens of the capital should have less rules than the rest of the country. It's marginally what it's going to mean, compared to what you're allowed to do. That will not change the fundamentals of the principles. I just don't think you can discriminate against the citizens of the capital against the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185735	But that is exactly what we are going to do, because the citizens of the capital at least had expected the landowners near the wedges to remain there. You have settled in something that looked like a green area, and now there will be more construction in that area. So that is precisely a change compared to what was expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185757	I am thinking that it would be somewhat unreasonable for a citizen of X-købing to have more opportunities than a citizen of the metropolitan area, and that is why equal rights must apply to everyone. The marginal changes that are being proposed here, I think, can be lived with. But I am willing to discuss it all on the basis that, of course, we must agree with the conciliation circle in this area. I am very aware of the green wedges myself. I think it is a force for the metropolitan area that we have them, and I think the Finger Plan can be used very offensively. I will also come up with a proposal for this during the year and, of course, a very, very great consideration will be given to the environment and nature in the proposal I am making for the development of the Finger Plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185840	Thank you, Minister. There does not seem to be any more brief comments, nor has anyone else wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be forwarded to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170202185905	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, and I would like to thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 3 February 2017 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
