ParlaMint-DK_20171012100004	The meeting is open. To Parliament's agenda today, Thursday 12 October, the Foreign Minister (Anders Samuelsen) has asked me to inform you that he wishes to do so in accordance with Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide Parliament with a written statement on cooperation in the Arctic. 2. Copies will be distributed and will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 26 October 2017. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the government's foreign and security policy strategy for 2017-2018. 3). Copies will be distributed and will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 1 December 2017. There are today the following reviews: Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 16 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ceiling on the number of pupils in a primary school class) and motion for a resolution No. B 17 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of compulsory national tests and the cessation of Denmark's participation in the PISA surveys). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100125	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100222	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Male Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100244	Thank you. This bill concerns part of the financing of the agreement that is behind a new renewable energy support model, an agreement that has been concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party for approx. 14 days ago. Overall, I regret that there is no higher level of ambition for the Danish expansion of VE than is seen in that proposal. Having said that, I would like to deal with L 39. Let me start by saying that the Social Democracy agrees with what is described as the overall intention of the draft law, namely to make it clearer in Danish legislation when the aid scheme expires because of EU state aid rules. The greatest possible transparency of legislation can only be beneficial to all parties. At the same time, the Social Democratic Party supports the part of the bill in which it is proposed to remove the solar pool for 2017 and replace it with a technology-specific tender for small solar installations. This is a direct expiry of an agreement concluded by the Energy Regulatory Group. By converting the pot into a supply we get much more green energy for the money. The supply is expected to provide an expansion that could deliver 1 year of power consumption to approx. 12,500 Danish households. However, we note that in the hearings there is a particularly important criticism to which we can subscribe, namely that, for example, there is a lack of transparency on the part of the Commission. Danish Construction demands an overall strategy in the solar field, so that once and for all, clarity is created as to how solar cells are promoted most appropriately. We've asked for that before, and I'll be happy to do it again. However, here too, our immediate support for the draft law, which covers a great many different matters, and let me just mention two of the points where we are sceptical. First of all, in relation to the Green Scheme, which the government will not continue when the current state aid authorisation expires. There is little support for this decision in the hearings. Let me just mention some of the critics who are Randers, Jammerbugt, Vesthimmerland, Skive, Aalborg and Herning municipalities. Agriculture & Food criticized stopped, and KL criticized stopped. Everyone finds the abolition of the system problematic. In particular, it is of course worrying that several municipalities describe how current projects are already in process getting into a mess in the municipalities. Secondly, we take note of the criticism of the downgrading of the balance-sheet allowance, which is also to be found in the consultation responses. For example: Danish Energy states that they consider it highly questionable that for the third time within two years the authorities consider it necessary to adjust the scheme. This creates uncertainty in the market and doubts about future investors, a development that is in no way beneficial to the green transition. We need stable framework conditions so that we can secure the lowest possible prices for renewable energy in the future. The Social Democratic Party therefore considers it appropriate to ask further questions about this before we can possibly support the proposal. We look forward to this in committee. We also find it worrying that the RE model is being changed in a way that the industry is opposed to. It will be significantly more expensive than necessary, and as the Green Scheme disappears, there will be greater concern among the local population and resistance to having wind turbines set up, for example. In the light of all the above, and since the draft law covers a number of different proposals that we consider necessary to deal with individually, the Social Democrats are proposing to split up this bill. It should be noted that we expect a number of uncertainties to be clarified in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100640	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100654	Thank you, sir. President. The draft law here, L 39, as the previous rapporteur on the floor mentioned, contains a large number of different elements, all of which have a common feature, that they fall within the scope of energy legislation, but that is also where the similarities first and foremost end. When you take some of the various elements and review them, there is, of course, the element that the expiry of certain aid schemes, where the expiry date is not indicated today by the law, but where you have to look elsewhere for when the aid authorisation from the EU system expires. In this way, it is the one that governs the expiry date of the aid scheme, and there we think it is sensible and educational that things should be written into the legislation so that it is not unnecessarily difficult to find out when an aid scheme expires. In the same way, we also think that it is sensible to allow the temporary operation of power generation facilities without having a normal power generation permit. It is, of course, only in exceptional cases that such a system should be possible, but it is sensible to have it, because if it is necessary. Similarly, I would also like to say about the element that deadlines for grid connection and application are being set for the payment of increased price surcharges for the series of transitional arrangements made in 2013 for solar installations, that it is now more than four years since the scheme was adopted by the Folketing, and then it must also be reasonable that an expiry date should be set for the application of this scheme. So these are also elements that the Danish People's Party can be involved in. In addition, there is a provision on the solar pool for 2017. It is a decision to change the pool adopted by the Energy Association in 2017, which is part of the Danish People's Party, which is why we also support that element. So overall I can say that it is a good deal of mixed elements in the energy sector, but these are all elements that the Danish People's Party can endorse, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100928	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. There are also no brief comments, so we move quickly on to Mrs Marianne Bredal from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012100949	Thank you. With Bill L 39 we propose to clarify the expiry date of a number of aid schemes under the VE Act covered by the EU State aid rules. In this way, the draft law aims to standardise the aid schemes provided for in the VE Act in relation to the EU legal basis for State aid rules. The draft law also proposes to include a pool of 1 MW in some of the aid schemes for smaller renewable plants. This will ensure that there is no unforeseen and uncontrollable expansion of aid schemes. In the government we fight for as much green conversion as possible for the money. Therefore, the draft law contains a further proposal to remove the solar pool for 2017 in favour of a more cost-effective technology-specific offer for solar installations below 1 MW. By allowing the solar projects to bid in each of them, the project simply delivers the most green energy at the best price. The draft law also proposes the possibility of temporary operation of power generation facilities at sea without any power generation permit. It is appropriate in the case of an unfulfilled mortgage holder taking over and operating the facility for a limited period of time. Last but not least, it is proposed that the balance sheet remuneration should be adjusted downwards in order to ensure consistency with the European Commission's approval of the scheme. All in all, the bill thus supports the government's clear ambition for a cost-effective renewable energy expansion. That is why, of course, the Left supports L 39.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101130	Thank you very much to Mrs Marianne Bredal. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101144	Law proposals can sometimes be rather strange, and this bill is a consequence of the fact that two agreements have been made. It's a messy bill. You can see that, just looking at the three consultation periods that the draft law has been subjected to, where the last hearing was here from 4 October to 10 October, and where we have just reached a consultation note for the part of the bill which concerns the PV agreement that was concluded to replace the solar pool for 2017 of 20 MW. There is now the prospect that we can end up with something where we are holding an offer exclusively for sunshine, which may then provide 35 MW. In fact, we think this is a sensible agreement, but we also think that there is reason to look carefully at the consultation answers and see if there is anything that can be put into practice so that some of the criticisms that have come from that agreement may be met. Then there is the whole technology-neutral offer, which has been planned for a long time, and where in the bill here there are a number of adjustments as a consequence of the Danish People's Party and the government have made an agreement. It is a bit strange that we have here something that is one hundred per cent energy compatibility, and then an agreement is made where it is not the entire conciliation circle that is involved. That's weird. The prehistory has been that the government has thought that there was an alarming prospect that we could get a solar flare that might cost approx. 60 million kr. a year, and therefore a bill was tabled just before the summer holiday. Then we have had a process where it has been one hundred percent clear that the Ministry of Finance would have a certain solution for the future expansion of renewable energy, and I think it is extremely unfortunate that we have ended up in a situation where the agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party only provides half as much expansion of renewable energy as it could otherwise provide. It's funny to experience these press releases coming from the Ministry, where the headline when we landed the PV agreement was called: More sun for money. There might have been a different headline when you made this technology-neutral offer called: less RE for the money. Because that's what's gonna happen. You have not wanted to listen to, for example. The wind turbine industry, which has clearly outlined that if you wanted as much renewable energy as possible for the money, you should not do what the government wanted. I think it's sad. Now we're getting some experience with this technology-neutral supply, and I don't think it's the right expansion rate. After all, it is important that we ensure security of supply, even in the future, when we get more renewable energy into the system, and it is therefore important that we do not have wind turbines alone. We need to have some kind of energy mix. There are researchers who say that it would be sensible to have 20%. solar energy in our power system. It is possible that the right number is 15%, but it is certainly not the 2.5%. solar energy, as we currently have, in our power system. So we have to try to promote something that allows a continuous solar expansion to take place. It's also important for the companies that set up solar cells that they always have something to do, and there's a disadvantage, then, that we do this stop-go all the time, where conditions change, and where there's a risk that there can be a long period of time when there's nothing to do, and then suddenly there can be a technological development, which means that there's a lot of solar cells being set up. I think we should look carefully at some of these consultation responses. There are, among other things: The Danish Vindmøllforeningen was informed that the change in the balance-sheet remuneration that has been envisaged did not comply with the Commission's approval a few years ago. I think that is essential to clarify that. Then perhaps some outsiders can say that they are small amounts of ear money. Yes, but we are in the situation where the economy of the existing mills is very strained, and even a slight reduction in their income can have a significant impact. I fear that if we adopt what is here, it will result in more of the existing wind turbines being taken down. I think it is a pity that we have ended up in this, because this agreement on the technology-neutral supply could well be imagined that the government would like to be reflected into a future energy agreement. There I think that in a future energy agreement, tools should be chosen to ensure the maximum possible amount of renewable energy for the money, and that is not what has been proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101653	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There were no brief comments, so we move on quickly to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101704	In the absence of our rapporteur, I can tell you that, in our view, the draft law we are discussing here contains a number of sensible measures and adjustments. Dates of expiry are added to a number of aid schemes that we have heard, the balancing allowance is revised downwards, and provision is made for temporary operation of power generation facilities at sea without an electricity permit. So this is a mixed country deal. However, it is in particular the abolition of the economically inefficient solar pool for 2017 that we welcome in the Liberal Alliance. Instead of transforming a pool, which would otherwise have been a socio-economicly expensive solution with small plants that would only produce for own consumption, the pot with this bill is now converted into a tender, and we like that. This ensures that more efficient PV installations can participate in tenders, which means that much more megawatts can be developed for the same money. In the Liberal Alliance, however, we regret that the money from the solar pool is still earmarked for a particular technology. We would have liked the money to have been transferred to the technology-neutral tender round, which the government has just heard from us together with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party behind it. It would have been the best socio-economic solution. However, we are seeing more and more positive elements in the proposal and can support it on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101850	Wait a minute, sir. Mr. Villum Christensen, there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101854	Thank you. Now, of course, with the agreement that has been made on the supply of solar cells, there are certain principles that have been laid down, and I can hear from the rapporteur that he does not like to have such a tender where a particular technology is chosen. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he has heard that it would be an advantage for the energy system as a whole to have an energy mix that supports security of supply and that in such a scenario, when you have extremely high wind levels in Denmark, you also make sense to have other sources of energy. There are scientists who have come to the conclusion that 20%. from solar cells in our electricity system would be something that fits well with the very large wind turbine expansion and that it would provide better security of supply than if it all came from wind turbines. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he is aware that such an energy mix is something that can be included in the planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012101956	It is true that there are many fluctuations in the ways we get energy into our system, and there is something that can balance each other, wind and sun, that is correct, but it does not change the fact that we think it is incredibly important that we have cheaper access to this. After all, we have seen how planning is going wrong precisely in choosing specific technologies and creating fixed support schemes that apply for a very long time, because it is incredibly difficult to predict the price development of the technologies. I myself heard the rapporteur mention this stop and go as a problem, and we have seen that in the PV sector precisely because we cannot predict things. So changing it into a supply so that you control the economy and let the technologies compete makes us have a much safer economic system. I would remind you that the existing energy conciliation was almost 25 billion. kr. more expensive than expected in 2012, and think of how many hundreds or thousands of percent it is if it was a hospital building that became so much more expensive. And that is the consequence of having a system where you cannot control things, that is the consequence of the fall in energy prices. So you can never control the future, and that is why we need something more neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102122	It is not because the President has a cold, it is more because we have a deadline for our speech. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102129	The rapporteur now stresses that we must go for the cheapest possible approach, and that approach can be taken. It has to be said that with the process we have had, discussions on these technology-neutral invitations to tender and the recordings that have come from, among other things. The wind turbine industry, I think, is a little strange that the three government parties have stuck to the dictation that has apparently been in advance about where to land and that one could not listen to the wind turbine industry and could see that another economic model could have been chosen that could have ensured twice as much renewable energy expansion as in the agreement that is now in place. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a little wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102210	I always think you should be skeptical if a particular industry goes out and says: If you do this and that, we can get your hand in the box. And then you come up with arguments that it will also be of benefit to you. We've been through that game a lot of times.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102227	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102229	Thank you. After all, it is not just industry, but the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, which we received in the conciliation circle, show that there could have been a lot more megawatts for less money. So now the Liberal Alliance chose a model where 200 MW can be obtained for about 1 billion. kr. and in another model you could have received over 400 for a small amount. How does this correspond to the fact that the Liberal Alliance wants the cheapest possible model?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102252	We think it is important, as I said before, that we should have some tendering systems tested. I think that in the long term it would be very sensible for us to change the way in which we conduct energy policy, so that instead of doing what we have done so far, namely in a very planned economic way, we say that so many megawatts we should have in that year at that and that price 7-8 years in the future, and we have seen what that means: an extra bill of 25 billion. kr. In the long term, I think that is the smartest thing, and I very much hope that we will get this into the future energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102330	After all, no one disagrees with the fact that we have to have a call for tenders. That's not what we're discussing. We all agree with that. What we disagree on is whether to give, for example. Thirteen cents for 20 years to all winds, just for 20 years, as the government wants, or whether to say that we are giving a minimum price which, with all the projections the government itself has made, will mean that there will be no support in 3, 4, 5 years. Why does the Liberal Alliance choose a model where you can be sure that you have to keep giving up to 13 cents a year? kilowatt-time for 20 years, instead of taking a model that says that in 3, 4, 5 years you can stop supporting the windmills, just to be absolutely sure in the Ministry of Finance that you know it is 13 cents you can be absolutely sure to pay? Is it really the case that the economic policy of the Liberal Alliance is?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102413	I think it's great to be so sure of something that's gonna happen in 5 and 10 years. It's pretty much always gone wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102420	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102423	I did not really intend to ask questions, but as the rapporteur chooses to be as polemical in his speech as the rapporteur is, I think it is right to ask questions. When the rapporteur says that the Liberal Alliance will have as much energy as possible for the money, why does the Liberal Alliance not support the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance that wind energy, if you make a wise offer instead of the model chosen by the government, can actually lead to more megawatt hours, that is, more renewable energy, for less money? Why is it that the Liberal Alliance is so interested in just letting the money run out of the treasury and getting less for the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102502	Now this bill is a mess of a lot of things. There are some pluses and some minuses, and I tried to account for that too. Overall, I think these are sensible adjustments. I have no difficulty in voting for it, and I myself have been involved in negotiating it. I think it is a balanced way of doing this. And then I say that, in principle, we are in favour of technology neutrality, and there are many advantages to that, and I also say, as I mentioned earlier, that this is because a particular industry stands up and says why you don't do this and that, and then we get more money out of it, we have, like, heard sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102547	Now I have heard the rapporteur's President say on several occasions that they rely on the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, but this is not the case here, where the Ministry of Finance has shown that if they chose to do so, among other things. The wind turbine industry says you get more wind for the money. It's basically economical sense of humor. The rapporteur is so stubbornly claiming that we cannot look 20 years ahead, and I agree with that. That is why I cannot understand why the rapporteur supports the model which provides for money to be given for 20 years, money to wind for 20 years, despite the fact that there is something that suggests that wind can run around in itself. There is evidence of this with DONG's tender. You haven't chosen that model, you haven't chosen the most wind for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102632	I think it is fantastic to know so much about the future and to be able to separate things so clearly. Had we now followed our approach to an energy reconciliation in 2012, we would surely have received more for the money than the planned economic model, which has been completely characterised by the existing settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102652	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen, and welcome to Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102700	With L 39 we have a collection of a series of measures in the field of energy, which points in many directions. You could say that some of them are obvious. For example: It is obvious to ensure the continued operation of wind turbines during periods without a power generation permit, but I have to deal with those parts of the proposal which have a more political substance. So although we could be positive about some of the smaller parts of the proposal from the alternative, there are generally too many drawbacks in this pile of sub-proposals, and therefore we could also be inclined and positive about supporting the Social Democrats' proposal to have a split of this proposal. On the negative side, we see a closure of the green scheme, we see the closure of the solar system from 2017 and a transition to the tender system that has just been debated by the previous rapporteur here, where unfortunately we move the risk to the industry and thus get higher prices. This slows down the pace of the green transition. The third point I would like to highlight is the excessive downgrading of the balance compensation for wind turbines, and here I would also like to point out that, in their response to the consultation, the wind turbine association has said that it is the question of whether, within the framework of EU rules, we can actually do what we have done here, where the government has therefore projected the balance compensation. The European Union has made it clear that it must be based on actual historical costs. So there are some things we need to learn more about in committee work, but as a starting point we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102906	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments. So I would like to welcome Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012102914	As others have said before me, this bill is a bit of a jumble, but it translates, among other things. parts of the agreement that the Danish People's Party has made with the government on how to support renewable energy in the future. There may be someone in this room who is a little confused, but one can say that with the model chosen by the government, it is sure to give a supplement for 20 years. It can be as much as 13 cents per penny. kilowatt-time, which you're just absolutely sure of, no matter what happens to the energy price. The only thing you can be sure of is that that money will be paid for 20 years, while the wind industry expects that they will not be supported in a 4-5 year period if they only get a minimum price, which is guaranteed, because all projections by the Danish Energy Agency and forward prices from the market say that electricity prices will lie in a place where, in the course of a 3, 4, 5 years with a minimum price, there will be a call for tender that is about a minimum price. In the model that the government has chosen, which is about making a price surcharge, there is one thing that is safe • it's the only place we're sure of something and it's that you're going to pay all this lovely money extra for renewable energy for 20 years. That is why we believe that we cannot stand by and say that we want the most wind for the money and then at the same time choose a model which is absolutely the most expensive. The only thing you really have about that model, which is why the government chose it, is that the Ministry of Finance is just quite sure that you're going to pay this money, where in the second model there is, of course, a minimal risk that the electricity price will collapse completely. Even if it did, then completely collapsed... it wouldn't be something that seriously destroyed the Treasury in this model with a price surcharge. So we think we should have chosen the model which, with all forward prices and all projections of electricity prices, which are likely, would mean that we would have stopped supporting wind on land within a few years. In addition, there are several things in this agreement that we would rather have seen in a debate. The green scheme we think is a bad idea just to abolish, because the green scheme has actually played a major role in obtaining local support for wind turbines. If we had had it in a negotiating room, we could have talked about whether we could have changed it, changed it in a different way, so that the windmills continued to have popular support. Could it be replaced by new co-ownership models? But it wasn't the intention of the government to make a narrow deal. Then there is also the discussion about what is called the balance compensation, which is actually about how much each wind turbine owner should receive in subsidies for the costs that are in the process of controlling the balance. There the government has set it down substantially, more than the Danish Windmill Association believes it should be done on the basis of the instructions that have come from the EU. Of course, we will ask that question, because the wind turbine owner should not have more money than it costs. You have to look at the actual costs and make sure that they are reimbursed. Then there is a conversion of the solar pool, and we support it. We have negotiated this with the government, and we have agreed on that. So if the government could see that it could separate the bill and take part in a proposal for itself, as also the Social Democratic Party proposes, then we would be radically accommodating to that part of the bill. However, we cannot support the radical bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103239	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. We will take the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103247	Thank you. As has been said before, it is a mixed country trade, which is why I would call on the Minister to look at whether the bill can be divided into two parts. Because I think it is useful that there are as many as possible in the Folketing behind the part about our solar cells, because it is an energy agreement that we have made together. We can support the lifting of the solar pool, but we can only do so because we have just reached an agreement in the energy conciliation circle to make a different type of PV supply. One of the things that the SF is critical of is the deadlines that have been discussed with the EU • when we can extend and what we cannot extend and what we can get from complaints • and we would like to test this in committee, where we would like some clear answers from the minister about what is possible with the EU. At any rate, we are very concerned that none of those who have sought can get into a lot of trouble. Then there are two additional elements in the draft law that we are critical of. That is, of course, the question of the green system. It has been crucial to getting citizens to support major renewable energy projects, and we would like them to do so in the future too. That is why we want the green system to continue. In addition, we are quite critical of the fact that once again we opt for a downgrade in the balance sheet remuneration. It is quite nerdish, but every time you change a balance allowance, you also change the conditions for developing renewable energy. So there are some who are constantly counting on what it creates from uncertainties and whether it creates an uncertain investment climate. And if this government is talking about being kind to business and having secure framework conditions, then it's kind of paradoxical that we have to see this kind of downgrading of the balance allowance over and over again. I am well aware that the conditions are changing along the way, but I also think it is reasonable to say that there should be some transparency on the market. So we are against the proposal unless we divide it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103445	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and welcome to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103456	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have mentioned, this is a bag of mixed candy: fixes, set dates in accordance with the State aid law for a number of aid schemes, downgrading the balance compensation, making a pool of 1 MW for a number of aid schemes for small renewable energy installations, and then inserting grid connection deadlines for solar installations from 2013 • I suppose it is quite reasonable that we should have a final date on that and then allow temporary operation in production facilities at sea, which may be in financial difficulties, and where creditors might have the opportunity to continue production instead, and there is, of course, a power generation permit, and then, last but not least, the PV pool for 2017 will be abolished. I look forward to negotiating new energy agreements in the autumn and in the new year, when we are over these cross-breeds on these energy agreements. There we are Conservatives very ambitious. After all, we have a target, which is also in the government base, of 50%. in 2030 and 100 per cent; in 2050. As it looks right now, I think it makes sense to reach these numbers. Of course, we need to invest around in renewable energy, but it also seems that we have to invest in renewable energy, among other things. On winds already around 2025 is there by that we can get sea wind farms up, without having to bring up state crowns to it, and then it starts to get really positive. So Conservatives support the proposal as set out here in L 39.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103703	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then the trip has come to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012103710	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The main measure in the bill is that the solar pool for 2017 is proposed to be repealed. The solar pool was decided in 2013, but we have come to the conclusion in the conciliation circle that the funds can be used more efficiently by implementing a technology-specific PV supply instead. Therefore, the bill implies that we cancel the payout of the solar pool in 2017. A separate bill on the implementation of the technology-specific PV supply will be submitted next year. The reason why we will replace the solar pool in 2017 with a technology-specific offer in 2018 for solar installations below 1 MW is that we estimate that we can thus get more renewable energy for the money. This part of the bill was submitted in consultation with the draft law. The late consultation is due to the fact that the termination of the pool was only agreed shortly before the draft law was submitted. The consultation note has therefore only been sent to the Danish Parliament yesterday. In addition, a number of more technical elements are included in the draft law, which is essentially to exercise due diligence. As has already been shown, the draft law is, I believe, one of those which can be called a genuine joint legislative proposal. In short, in addition to removing the solar pool, the purpose is that we will insert expiry dates into the VE Act in accordance with the State legal basis for a number of aid schemes. This brings our legislation fully into line with the expiry of aid schemes in the European Union. We will downgrade the balance sheet remuneration to ensure that we do not make overcompensation, which is an EU requirement. We will set a ceiling of 1 MW in a number of aid schemes for small renewable energy installations to ensure that the schemes do not run out of control. We will include grid connection deadlines and deadline for application for payment in a number of support schemes for solar installations from 2013. This makes it clear how many plants are included in old transitional arrangements. Finally, we will allow for the temporary operation of power generation facilities at sea without a power generation permit to ensure that offshore wind farms can also be operated in special cases without a power generation permit. The bill and related notices are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today. I look forward to continuing the discussion on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. And I would like to thank you for your comments and would like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104000	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104006	Now there are some things in this bill that are an expiry of the voting agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government on this renewable energy offer in 2018 and 2019. That agreement then contains a budget that has been included in reducing the balance of payments and removing the green system. And it gives some money. After all, the intention has also been for the cancellation of the solar pool to help finance some of this. And fortunately, it didn't happen when we suddenly landed an agreement for the PV expansion. I think it's a good thing we made it. I would like to be part of the financing of this tender, because the agreement states that there must also be funding from the reduction of aid for biogas due to over-compensation of 486 million. kr. Is that the money that was otherwise described in the draft budget as an expected cost of 500 million? kr. for the next three years? Is it the case that the government will table an amendment to its own draft budget as a result of the agreement made with DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104128	Thank you for the question. I can say that there are currently no considerations in this regard. What we are looking at is support for biogas. We have become aware that there has been overcompensation. We simply need to have dealt with this. We cannot allow this to continue, and we are then considering how we can deal with this in a sensible way, so that we continue to ensure that biogas is developed. However, we must do this in a way that avoids overcompensation of biogas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104158	It was interesting if it is the case that what is being dealt with here does not have any impact on the draft budget put forward by the government. Because it is calculated that you have a cost of 500 million. kr. in total for the next 3 years. I think it might be interesting to discuss in the energy conciliation circle what kind of adjustments can be made. It might be possible to do something which also reduced the planned cost of the 500 million. kr. Can the Minister see any possibilities in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104230	Thank you for the question. I can always see some possibilities in that we meet in the conciliation circle. And, of course, it will also be under the auspices of the conciliation circle that we sit down and look at how the support for biogas looks, how we deal with the future, that biogas continues to be developed and how we ensure that it does so in a way that the biogas is not overcompensated.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104248	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104250	Two questions. Yeah, I'll take one at a time. I'm sorry! I'll start over. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister could imagine dividing up the proposal because the minister says that the clearly most important part of this bill is that the solar pool is terminated and that in the energy conciliation circle we have just made an agreement for a new tender so that it was for itself and then the other elements separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104321	Thank you for the question. I have listened to the debate here today and I am concerned that in those areas where we can agree, there is also broad support in the Folketing for it. I have listened to the views expressed and I am prepared to discuss with the parties in the Folketing whether it would be sensible to split the bill. When it looks like it does, it is because, in our opinion, it is the consequences of EU legislation in terms of the parts beyond the PV supply, then the technical measures are there. But if there is a broad desire for it, then that is something we are looking at positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104402	I think that is a good thing, and I think that the Minister should continue to work on that. And we are happy to do so with the Minister in committee. The second question I would like to ask the Minister is simply about the fact that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentioned the planned economy in connection with the energy agreement of 2012, which is, of course, the energy settlement that we still have to operate from. And that is why I would like to ask whether the Left, which is part of the energy settlement, agrees with the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that this is a planned economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104437	Thank you for the question. Now there are different ways of expressing themselves. I can say that we are, of course, behind the 2012 Energy Agreement, but on the other hand I must also say that the economy of the 2012 Agreement was very much gone. The PSO suddenly turned out to double and there was an expectation of annual costs of approx. 4 billion kr. in 2016-17, costs had risen to 6-7-8 billion. kr. That is also why, in relation to the forward-looking energy policy, we, like the Liberal Alliance, are concerned about ensuring that we also have control over costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104514	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104517	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on what the Danish Windmill Association points out in its response to the hearing. It is about the fact that if we had used what we used to do, that is to say, to look at actual historical costs, as is also described in the European Commission's approval, the one called N 354 of 2008 - that is to say, that this is the method to be used - we would have ended up with a balancing allowance of 1.13 cents. Now it's pressed all the way down to 0.9 cents. This is because the government or the government has chosen to make a projection instead. Can this be done in relation to the Commission's approval?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104607	Thank you for the question. It is our clear view that it is possible to do so. After all, we are fully aware that, in relation to the cost of the balance sheet, there must also be a guarantee that an unnecessarily high amount will not be paid. That is what we have become aware of. That's also why it's part of this, that we get a reduction in the cost of the balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104630	However, the balance-sheet allowance, as I understand it, is constantly regulated precisely on the basis of actual historical costs. In this way, there is, in the whole concept, an adjustment that means that we do not pay too much. Here it is just as one has tried to squeeze the lemon further by basing it on projections instead. Can the Minister explain why it has been chosen to take this step?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104659	Thank you again for the question. For us, it is absolutely crucial that what is paid for balancing costs is also the real balancing costs. And in our view, it is a real model that has been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104710	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104713	After all, it is no secret that in very many communities there is concern about having mills set up in the vicinity. Against this background, we have seen the green scheme as a subsidy to get the goodwill of the local population to get projects up and running. We are concerned that the things that have been promised to the people also live up to expectations and are being implemented. A large number of municipalities, KL and Agriculture & Food are concerned that the green scheme will disappear in this way, perhaps before the subsidies that are expected will actually be paid out. So I would like to ask the Minister: dare the Minister guarantee that the projects that have been completed, for example per year. 20 February 2018, also when to get the green scheme paid out, in line with what the projects that are currently running are actually expected during the project process?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104807	I can guarantee you, sir. Malte Larsen says that we are doing everything we can to push for the procedure and so on, so that as many of these applications as possible can be dealt with. Moreover, it is also the case that it follows from the State aid authorisation that the scheme expires in February 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104826	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104827	I hear this as the Minister dares not guarantee that all the projects will get the green scheme. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104836	We're pushing for everything we can at all. We have no intention of preventing any of those who are legally entitled to participate in the green scheme from having it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104844	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be transferred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104904	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012104931	Thank you, President. This bill is part of the implementation of the political agreement concluded on 22 March 2017 between the Government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF on the development of the North Sea. For the Social Democratic Party, it has been important, as a party to this agreement, to secure the many jobs that have been at stake in the North Sea. Activities in the North Sea employ thousands of Danes. With the agreement on the reconstruction of the Tyra field, we have secured a central infrastructure from the activities in the North Sea and therefore also the many jobs that have been at risk of disappearing. Social democracy, together with other good forces, ensured that the financing of the agreement is fair and socially balanced, as opposed to the government's original financing proposal. Without an agreement, there would be less money available to secure and develop our welfare societies. It is now worth rebuilding the field in the North Sea, while the state, in turn, gets a share in the surplus that may come. We are satisfied with that. And then we are pleased that the agreement enjoys support across the political parties in the Folketing. This specific legislative proposal aims to improve the possibilities for cooperation in the North Sea and ensure that the infrastructure is used in the most socio-economically appropriate way. This is an intention that we in the Social Democratic Party can support, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. And, of course, we will discuss in the committee's work any details that may be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105113	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, and welcome to Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105122	Thank you, President. After all, the draft law here, L 42, concerns the implementation of the agreement reached between a fairly broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties, namely the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF, in March, which deals with the framework conditions for the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea. There is no doubt that the extraction of oil and gas in the Danish part of the North Sea has been a source of great wealth for Denmark. It has brought a large amount of revenue into the Treasury, it has created many jobs, and it has contributed to Denmark being self-sufficient in energy for a long period of time in terms of the consumption of oil and gas in Denmark. There is no doubt that the low-hanging fruits from oil and gas in the North Sea have already been picked. However, studies have also shown that there is still plenty of oil and gas to pick up if the right framework conditions are in place, so that it is still profitable for the rights holders. There was the purpose of the agreement that was concluded back in March and that we in the Danish People's Party are happy to be part of. In concrete terms, the bill here is so that it can be said that part of the agreement, which relates to the energy minister's resort, is about how to make better and more profitable and more rational use of the pipelines that are already present, so that, overall, we have more profitable use of the infrastructure and of the resources that are present in the North Sea. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that the agreement here has helped to extend the period during which we can extract oil and gas from the North Sea. In this way, we will, in part, ensure that we are still self-sufficient for a long period of time, while at the same time guaranteeing good revenue for the Treasury, and that there will still be a great deal of jobs in extracting oil and gas. So we welcome the agreement and we therefore also support the bill, which translates part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105340	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker, and welcome to Mr. Mikkel Dencker. Hans Andersen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105347	Thank you. As I have said, the aim of the draft law is to improve the framework for oil and gas extraction in the Danish part of the North Sea. The background is that the majority of the potential today is made up of smaller finds of oil and gas. At the same time, the current rules do not support an optimal return on these potentials because there is insufficient third-party access to the existing infrastructure. This hampers investment in the North Sea because the current framework does not adequately support the extraction of small amounts of oil and gas. As I said in March, the government reached a broad agreement with the Social Democracy, the SF, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on the development of the North Sea, where improved access to infrastructure was one of the elements. This bill translates this part of the agreement. The main consideration is to make it easier for rightholders to use other persons' facilities for recovery, transport and processing on predictable and reasonable terms. At the same time, the proposal ensures that future developments take into account the socio-economically most appropriate use of infrastructure. With this element, the Minister of Energy will be empowered to include terms in the approval of expansion plans for third-party space and third-party capacity agreements. I would like to add briefly that the draft law also contains an element that the Energy Complaints Board will be a review body for decisions taken under the pipeline law. I will conclude by saying that third party access is assessed to have a positive effect on structural GDP. It is for the benefit of Danish society as a whole. That is why the Left also supports this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105546	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen, and welcome to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105555	There are sometimes legislative proposals that uncover a hypocritical policy. There are such times when we talk about climate and energy policy and think it is important that a Paris agreement has been concluded and that we should work around the world to reduce our CO2 What scientists have come up with is that if we are to prevent the temperature of the planet from rising these two degrees, we are where 80%. of the fossil fuels that are known should remain underground. It is therefore a recommendation that is given to take climate problems seriously. After all, it cannot be left alone, because we must also make the major sustainable transition to renewable energy, at the same time as we have to phase out fossil energies; otherwise we will end up in a shortage where we do not have energy. I think it is deeply hypocritical when, in Denmark, you go for the last oil and gas to get out of the North Sea, that is to say you have to do as much as possible to get the most fossil energy out of the territorial sea where Denmark has an influence. It is hypocritical, and this is the hypocritical law we have here today, where it is gratifying that there are some green organisations that have helped to clarify this by saying that we should make another choice and that Denmark should take the lead and make it clear that the known fossil fuels should remain underground. It is being spoken here that this is helping to secure our welfare societies. Our welfare societies are extremely threatened, but it is these global climate change that makes us able to get into a situation where the planet is not so good a place to live, and with the costs that come when climate change thunders out there and we are about to build higher dykes and take other measures and at the same time help developing countries to meet the challenges they face with climate problems that can be even worse than in Denmark, so we really are facing something that can threaten our society. So it is not wise to simply make agreements and legislative proposals which mean that those companies that want oil and gas on land make the most of the effort to get the last drop of oil pressed out of the ground and where something is said about reaching, but that is good, because then our society can move on. Our society cannot continue as it has done so far. We need to take these climate problems seriously. It is necessary to wake up, and it is not good to make such laws here, which go in the completely different direction. It is on that basis that Enhedslisten cannot support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105853	Thank you. I do not think I see anyone making brief remarks. So we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105904	Thank you. As we have heard here, the draft law makes it easier for companies to use other people's facilities for the extraction, transport and processing of raw materials from the North Sea. The reason why such a scheme is important is that we must make effective use of the relatively small finds that are now left in the Danish part of the North Sea. We will not be able to do so if we force companies to invest billions in expensive plants, because then they will simply stay away. In many cases it will not be profitable to pull up the oil, and we must bear in mind that there is not so much left. That is why we think it is common sense to introduce these more flexible arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012105958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so this is going pretty fast. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110005	Thank you. The alternative is, of course, outside this agreement on the extraction of oil and gas in the North Sea, and we are doing so because we believe that all the focus on the North Sea and on the extraction of oil and gas out there should now be on how to dismantle the activities out there. We are of the opinion that further investment in North Sea activities will either make it more difficult to reach the Paris Agreement or that it will end up as stranded investments if the Paris Agreement is taken seriously. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110046	Thank you. We shall continue to speak and give the floor to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110054	Thank you very much. As several people have mentioned before me, L 42 is a technical implementation of parts of the 2017 agreement, but it also affects the existing North Sea infrastructure. It is a question of providing improved third-party access to the borrowing facility as I understand it, one must be able to use each other's instructions, which is smart • that contributions should be collected for settlement costs, and then a new right of appeal will also arise. As the Radical Left is in the North Sea agreement, we can also support these technical amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110136	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110144	SF is for this proposal, L 42, on oil and gas from the North Sea, and we are because there are two elements to this. One is about the recent agreement we have made on the Tyra field, and the other is about ensuring the possibility of using the DUC facilities, which can lead to increased recovery and thus also increased revenue for the state, which we among other things. can be used for the Train Fund DK. So of course we're in favour. We are, in fact, interested in the taxpayers getting the most for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110219	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110230	Thank you. What we are giving access to here is the Danish Underground Consortium plant in the North Sea. This is, after all, an extension of the agreement reached on 23 March. I'm glad we have such a broad settlement in this area that makes it quiet. With this, we will ensure that we get the economically most profitable solution to the issue of daily operation in the North Sea, even in the years that come here afterwards, where we have less oil, but at the same time can use the resources of our wiring systems for everyone's good. So Conservatives support L 42.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110318	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the Minister, so I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110328	Thank you for that, President. Let me thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The draft law translates the third party access element that was part of the North Sea Agreement of March 2017. The North Sea Agreement is a political agreement reached by the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF on 22 March this year. In addition to the political agreement, the Government and the grant holders concluded an agreement on the development of the North Sea on 23 March. Third party access means that companies can have access to infrastructure owned by another company. Most of the potential left in the Danish part of the North Sea is made up of relatively small finds. It is therefore crucial that everyone can make use of the infrastructure already in the North Sea. With the bill, the state is given more tools to get the North Sea partners to talk and coordinate their efforts. This will lead to more efficient and profitable activities in the North Sea. The proposal amends the underground law to make it easier for companies to use other people's facilities for recovery, transport and treatment on predictable and reasonable terms. The pipeline law is being amended to ensure better use of the oil pipeline in the North Sea. Some amendments are also made which are not part of the North Sea Agreement. Among other things: It is proposed that the Energy Complaints Board should become a review body for decisions taken under the pipeline law. I am pleased with the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110515	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110535	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110559	Thank you. The bill we are now considering will allow foreign, security and defence policy considerations to be included in Denmark's decision to allow electricity or gas pipelines to be installed on Danish territorial waters. Technically, the bill is made in such a way that it happens by the Minister for Foreign Affairs giving an opinion to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, whom he or she then has to accept. What the Foreign Minister is basing that attitude on is, as the bill says, a free political judgement, which can include everything that can be seen as relevant to foreign, security or defence policy in the broadest sense, which, to put it mildly, is not so little. The recommendation will not indicate what considerations the Foreign Minister has made, but there will only be a yes or a no to whether the location of the installation in Danish territorial waters is compatible with our foreign, security and defence policy interests and concerns. Of course, in the practical execution of this, it will be seen as relatively closed, but since there will typically be consideration for other states involved, it is relevant and not unlike what we do in those situations where there are other states involved or where there are foreign policy considerations, for example. as you know from the work of the Foreign Policy Name etc. The Act is set to enter into force on 1 January 2018, but will also apply to cases pending at the time of the entry into force of the Act. This means that if an application has been submitted before the law enters into force, but the application has not been finalised, that application will be subject to the law. In the comments to the bill it is called the general starting point. It's enough to tighten it. It is undoubtedly not contrary to the basic law to create the structure that has been created here, but there will of course always be reason to be cautious in applying laws to facts which are prior to the adoption, confirmation and publication of the law, because that is the basis for citizens to know what legal status they have to comply with, that is to say, the legal situation is that which is applied at the time the facts are there. However, when this happens in this case, it is because of course the law is generally formulated, but designed to apply to the so-called North Stream 2 gas pipeline, which is also abundantly demonstrated by the consultation answers that have been received. For the Social Democratic Party it is obvious that when electricity and gas pipelines are to be built in Danish territorial waters, they may have geopolitical interests, and when they do, it should of course also be assessed in foreign, security and defence policy, and it is also obvious that this applies to the North Stream 2 project, which is why the Social Democratic Party can support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012110942	There is one more brief comment, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go. No). It was a mistake. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. We will continue in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111005	Thank you, President. Well, what this bill contains has already been well and thoroughly explained. It does contain the authority that the government can include security, foreign and defence policy interests in the assessment of whether it serves Denmark's interests that electricity transit cables or transit pipelines can be placed in Danish territorial waters. For the Danish People's Party, it is crucial that we in Denmark are masters of our own house, that we have the greatest possible sovereignty over Danish territory, and therefore we can in no way object to us adding as many criteria as possible when assessing applications to place such facilities on Danish territory. So far, it has only been the case that environmental considerations have been given a crucial importance, and that is what is being done up to here, in that foreign, security and defence policy can also be included in the assessment. These are considerations that we in the Danish People's Party support, which is why I can say very briefly and clearly that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111116	I think I'm seeing one more brief remark. Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111125	I agree with all the remarks made by the rapporteur. I note that the rapporteur does not mention at all what has been mentioned sometimes in consultation answers etc., namely the project that is caught up in this draft law, the Nord Stream 2 project, and that is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that some of the aims of this bill are that these foreign, security and defence policy considerations should also be thrown down on the Nord Stream 2 project.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111200	I am convinced that it is the Nord Stream 2 project, which is decisive for us to have the bill at this time, but it would of course have looked prettier, if we had had the bill three years ago, since no one had heard of Nord Stream 2. But in the Danish People's Party we have decided that we will deal with the bill here because it is about the general case. There may be so many other applications which also need to be assessed, which is why we relate in principle to the bill and say that from our point of view Denmark and the Danish authorities must have as much ownership as possible of Danish territory, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111240	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111242	I understand that, and I took note of it. It's just kind of the thing about nobody talking about the elephant who's in the room if you insist that this bill alone has a general application and that it's unrelated to the Nord Stream 2 project. I also heard the rapporteur say that there is that connection. Standing on that, does the rapporteur have any thoughts on what it would be appropriate to consider in relation to the Nord Stream 2 project, that is, not whether it should be rejected or not, but what are some considerations that one might see were worth looking at when looking through the foreign, security and defence policy glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111336	Well, I do acknowledge that there has been a fear of what this gas pipeline or pipeline can be used for in a political context. I fully acknowledge that there have been concerns about this. I also believe that it is two parties that want the gas pipeline here, Russia and Germany, and I certainly assume that both parties have thought through all the scenarios before they wanted to build the pipeline. So that really does not concern me in this particular case. But, as I said, we support the bill here because we want to assert Danish sovereignty as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111415	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111422	Thank you. This bill stems from the desire to include security policy, foreign policy and defence policy interests when permission is given to dismantle power cables and pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons on the Danish territorial sea. Today, there is no clear legal basis for including these considerations in the decision on who is to be authorised. The draft law therefore calls for the administrative processing of applications for the decommissioning of pipelines in the territorial sea to take place in two stages in the future. At the first stage, the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall draw up a recommendation to include foreign, security and defence policy considerations, which shall be taken into account in the decision of the Minister for Energy and, if the recommendation is positive, a usual environmental and security assessment shall be made at the second stage of the application concerned. If, on the other hand, the recommendation considers that conditions are not compatible with foreign and security policy interests, applicants shall be refused. This bill also contains a number of other elements that support the central purpose of the bill. I would like to touch briefly on the fact that the draft law also provides for the possibility of charging for the processing of applications for decommissioning in the maritime territory. It is essential that there is an opportunity to take wider security policy considerations into account in decisions on these activities in Danish territorial waters. This must, of course, be done on the basis of legislation, and the draft law provides the government with a clear legal basis for protecting the foreign, security and defence interests of the empire in connection with the dismantling of power cables and pipelines. In the future, there will therefore be certainty that activities are fully compatible with Danish interests. Against this background, the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111624	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111627	Thank you. Now we just heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say "and I think I am quoting it correctly, but otherwise it can be looked up afterwards that it does not in this case worry, i.e. that Nord Stream 2 does not raise any geopolitical concerns at all. Does the rapporteur agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111650	This is a legislative proposal which must, of course, relate to our security, foreign and defence policy interests in general. And then the future will have consequences for how we approach applications to lay down wires on Danish territorial sea. However, I cannot stand here today and say what precise consequences it will have for the future if we adopt this legislative proposal. So I think it might be just a post office too early to ask specific questions about specific projects and their decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111744	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111745	But will the rapporteur not at least agree with me, as is also shown by a number of consultation answers and so on. and the debate that has been going on so far that part of this proposal's creation is about the desire to be able to include precisely the foreign, security and defence policy considerations as regards the project that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111815	I have noted that several consultation responses specifically relate to a specific project, but I must also note that I am not informed that the government has taken a position on a specific application. In the first place, it is a matter for the Left that we adopt general rules that apply, and then the specific application must be included in the discussion on the basis of possible new legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111849	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no more too brief remarks. So the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012111901	Enhedslisten wants more politics into these pipelines. That is what we missed in the last legislative proposal we dealt with: that climate considerations could also be taken into account. In the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the adoption of this bill, because it will make it possible not only to relate environmentally to new lines but also to include foreign policy considerations. In this context, I also think it could be important that climate considerations could be taken into account. I do not see that it is explicit, but it has something to do with our long-term security situation, so we really think that would be relevant. Then it is also a little strange to have such a bill, which does not really relate to what follows. And there I can say very clearly that Enhedslisten does not support Nord Stream 2, i.e. the establishment of it inside the Danish territorial sea. In fact, this is a rather strange matter, because it is a question of whether this bill is necessary. I really think it might be interesting to find out if it is not the case that in 2009 when the Danish Parliament was dealing with Nord Stream 1, the first gas pipeline, and was told that it could not be said no to, one could actually have chosen at that time to say no to it, that is to say on the basis of the legislation that was at that time. In other words, we support the adoption of this bill, but I also think it would be interesting to have the history included and to find out if there were no more possibilities for action than what the Danish Parliament was told at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112047	There is one brief comment. Sir. Nick Hækkerup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112049	In other words, it should be a recognition of the rapporteur's open attitude to the fact that part of the law's creation concerns the Nord Stream 2 project. I think it is getting a little cramped, as we experienced before, that you insist not to talk about the elephant in space. So it is just a recognition of the courage to say what we all know very well, but as some may not say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112124	Thank you. I think it would be strange to treat something that is superfluous. In other words, there may sometimes be a legislative proposal asking whether it is really necessary to legislate on it. But here it is because there is a concrete plan for another gas pipeline, and it is so far ahead that the pipes are ready to be set up and it is pushing on with some clarification where one might allow a pipeline to be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. And the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112159	The draft law we are discussing here creates the legal framework necessary to include foreign, security and defence policy interests in the application for the decommissioning of electricity cables and pipelines in Danish territorial waters. I think it is quite clear to everyone why it is necessary to include these considerations in the assessment of such applications. When Russia applies to lead a giant gas pipeline through Danish waters, it is not just a matter of supply policy. It must be seen in the context of the foreign and security policy situation and the often aggressive behaviour of Russia towards its neighbouring countries. Is it desirable to increase European dependence on Russian gas, particularly in view of the sharpening political relations between the European Union and Russia? I'm not sure. For example, the Ukrainians have tasted the Russian menu when turning up and down the gas tap. At least such considerations will have to be taken into account when dealing with applications such as the one before us. here with Nord Stream 2. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal, which creates the necessary legal framework for such decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112322	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112327	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for your willingness to say what this is really about and what it is about. But the way the game has been going over the last half hour so far, the Danish People's Party has said that there are no geopolitical concerns as far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned. The Left has said that it has not been considered, at least it will not be taken into account. The Enhedslisten has said that this is extremely worrying. I listened to the Liberal Alliance, and I have a question. With the comments made by the rapporteur himself on the dependence on Russian gas and on Ukrainian experience, does the rapporteur think it would be advisable to give this authorisation to the Nord Stream 2 project or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112419	I think we should wait for the discussion, which I know will take place in the European Union, on this issue. At least the Commission has begun to move, I know, even though it has taken some time. It must be the right forum to have that discussion in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112439	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112441	But I agree with that. It is clear, and I think we must also say this, that a project which has such geopolitical implications, which not only affects Denmark but in fact affects the whole of Europe, as the rapporteur also mentioned, should be addressed by the European Union. There is just a risk that, on the basis of the tensions that exist, the European Union will not really get to grips with this. And if the ball ends up back with us, what will be the rapporteur's position on the project in which the bill is based?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112520	As my speech showed, I may have some concern. I think it was said quite clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112530	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112536	At the other end of the Walking Room above the National Hall it is written: The law is to be made for the benefit of all men. This is a sound principle, and it is also what we see with this bill, but we also see that it is a legislative proposal which, like many others, has been initiated because of a specific case. In this case, it is North Stream 2, as has been mentioned several times in the negotiations already. The alternative is very critical of North Stream 2, and we are, especially because we have the climate and environmental focus we have. For us, it is very important that we try to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement at all levels, and it will be quite madness to invest as heavily as will be the case with North Stream 2 in further fossil energy installations. So we are very much in favour of this bill, but it might be a little interesting to hear the Minister's comment on where the climate really belongs. It can be interpreted as meaning that when there are foreign, security and defence policy interests, then foreign- and security-- well cover the climate, because we have an agreement, the Paris Agreement, which is an international agreement. Is this how we should understand climate considerations, or can we be more precise about the fact that it is not just the security of the state and the defence of the empire and political and economic and military considerations? If we could get the climate right in, it would be super relevant, I think, and then we would really support it. However, we support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112729	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments right now. Sorry, there is. That's fine. We're in good time today. So here you go, sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112742	Yeah, it was my fault. I was simply a little slow to push the button, and that was because I was concerned about the considerations of climate policy. But again, to return to what has, as it were, been the starting point for the talk we have or are not having here today, I would just like to hear: what does the alternative think of the project, which is the concrete starting point for this draft law, which is generally formulated but which is initiated, if only partially, by the Nord Stream 2 project? How does the alternative view this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112826	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we see no future in the project called Nord Stream 2. We believe that all activities in fossil energy should be phased out and that no further investment should be made in this direction. We must place all investments in renewable energy and installations that support the distribution of renewable energy instead. So we're pretty clear about Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112856	Does the author wish to speak on another brief point? I think I can say thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012112910	Thank you. Today we are discussing L 43, which is about amending the continental shelf law, which sounds very, very fine, but it is also about changing the continental shelf law. on our seabed and it is a question of being able to include foreign, defence and security policy considerations when allowing pipelines, for example. gas pipe positions, and this is how it is done, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also described, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives a recommendation to the Ministry of Climate and Energy. On the part of the Radical Left, we think that is quite right, because climate and energy policy are major policies. This is something that is not a technical question. It is, of course, a foreign, defence, security and climate policy issue whether to grant permits for different infrastructure on Danish territorial waters. And that's why we can support L 43.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113004	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's sir. Nick Hækkerup for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113010	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm what Mr. Martin Lidegaard in other contexts has marked where the Radical Left is in relation to Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113029	After all, it is no secret that the Radical Left is very sceptical about Nord Stream 2 and one can thank the rapporteur for the question. The only party from which we have not received an answer is the Social Democratic Party, so the rapporteur could, of course, take the floor now and tell us where the Social Democratic Party is in relation to Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113046	There are no further comments at the moment from Mr. Nick Hækkerup, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113100	Thank you. Amendment No 43 means that foreign and defence policy considerations can be taken into account in order to allow oil and gas pipelines through Danish territorial waters. This is what we in the SF think makes quite good sense, since the energy supply is also a security policy and is basically about security of supply. It is naive to think that pipelines are just a commercial issue. In view of SF's spectacles, it is therefore absolutely crucial that we in the Folketing have the opportunity to say no to this kind of thing, and that is why we support the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113147	I do not see any brief comments, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113151	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, it is clear that the draft law is the result of a political desire to be able to take into account the interests of the empire's foreign, security and defence policy. The reason is, of course, that the government is aware in specific cases that there is no clear legal basis for including such broad considerations in the current legal basis. The essential element of the draft law is therefore that a new provision is proposed in the continental shelf law, Paragraph 3a, which regulates the right to be allowed to shut down power cables and pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons in the territorial sea. The effect of the proposed amendment is to introduce a new stage in the assessment of applications for the decommissioning of pipelines in the territorial sea. At the new first stage, it must be assessed whether the project in question is compatible with the security, foreign and defence policy interests of the empire. That is, of course, the specific nature of this, and that is why we have this bill today. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate shall obtain a recommendation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which shall, where appropriate, involve other ministers, in particular the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and the recommendation shall be the basis for the decision of the case. This means that the recommendation is binding and, if the recommendation is negative, a refusal is notified. So it is quite concrete and the Conservative People's Party can, of course, support L 43.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113336	Thank you to the rapporteur, who is just being asked to stay here, because there is actually a brief comment. It is going so fast today that we must also make sure that we have rapporteurs in the Chamber on the next item. So it could also be an invitation to those who are listening to us to have their MFs sent down to the Chamber, because things are going rather faster than expected. There is a brief comment from Mr. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113404	Just for the record: I am not taking the floor to ensure that our colleagues can reach their next items on the agenda; I am taking the floor because I think this is relevant to the legislative proposal we are considering here. What I just want to ask the rapporteur in the first place is whether the rapporteur agrees that this bill has been initiated, in whole or in part, by the problems we have, about the gas pipeline called Nord Stream 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113435	Thank you. Well, the bill here is a general draft law, and the government has proposed that the amendment of the law should also apply to received applications that have not yet been finalised. This means, of course, that if there are cases where you are in the process of processing, this bill will be included in the proceedings if the law comes into force before the cases are closed, and it does so on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113509	The questioner on the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113511	As the rapporteur puts it this way, the follow-up question may of course be whether the rapporteur knows about matters which will fall into the category where they will then be covered by the law, as it will apply per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113530	I would like to repeat that this law will generally work on such wiring systems. When we talk about defence, foreign affairs and security, I do not want to start by categorizing here from Parliament's platform what these applications are and what they are going to say 'yes' or 'no' to. I don't have that insight here, which is why it is here and this is clearly stated in L 43 • a general law, which must apply from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113608	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012113615	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. As has been shown, the bill is the result of a political desire to be able to take into account the interests of the kingdom's foreign, security and defence policy in relation to applications for the decommissioning of power cables and pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons on the Danish territorial sea. The reason for this is that, in the context of a specific application, the government has become aware that there is no clear legal basis for including such broader considerations in the current legal basis. The main element of the draft law is therefore that a new provision is proposed in Section 3a of the continental shelf Act, which regulates the right to be permitted to dismantle power cables and pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons in the maritime territory. According to the proposed section 3a, authorisation for decommissioning in the territorial sea can only be granted if it is compatible with the foreign, security and defence policy interests of the Kingdom. Until now, the establishment and operation of power lines and pipelines for the transport of hydrocarbons in the maritime territory has been regulated in particular by a decree issued under the State's law of the territorial sea. However, the Order does not provide a clear legal basis for the inclusion of wider foreign, security and defence policy considerations. The proposed amendments relate only to the territorial sea, i.e. that part of the waters extending from the coast to 12 nautical miles, corresponding to approx. Twenty-two kilometers. Denmark's international obligations under the Convention on the Law of the Sea prevent foreign, security and defence policy considerations from being involved in relation to applications on the continental shelf outside the territorial sea. It is proposed that the draft law enters into force on 1 January 2018 and that the new rules, in accordance with normal practice, will apply to applications which have not been finalised at the time of entry into force. The consequences of the proposed changes are the introduction of a new stage in the assessment of applications for decommissioning of pipelines on the maritime territory. At the new first stage, it must be assessed whether the project in question is compatible with the foreign, security and defence policy interests of the empire. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate will obtain a recommendation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which will involve other ministers as appropriate, in particular the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. The recommendation must be based on the decision of the case, i.e. the recommendation is binding. If the setting is negative, a refusal shall be notified. If the recommendation is positive, the authorities shall carry out the usual environmental and safety assessment corresponding to the applicable scheme. The proposal authorises the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to lay down detailed rules for the administrative processing of applications in the territorial sea. A number of minor amendments to the law are also proposed. Among other things, it has. to support the processing of applications and to clarify the administrative framework for the processing of applications. Applicants and owners of pipeline installations in the territorial sea shall be required to provide information to the Minister. If the obligation to provide information is not complied with, fines may be imposed. Furthermore, it is established that refusals based on the foreign, security and defence interests of the Kingdom cannot be brought before the Energy Appeals Board. Refugees may be brought before the courts by suing the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate within 6 months of refusal. In addition, the draft law contains a number of technical amendments, including: It is proposed that rules should be laid down on the collection of payments for the processing of applications for the decommissioning of pipeline installations in the maritime territory. Several of the provisions of the draft law are applicable since they already result from existing regulations issued in respect of the territorial sea on the basis of the State Supreme Court. It was considered appropriate on this occasion to establish the rules of law in parallel with those of the continental shelf outside the territorial sea. I am pleased with the interest that Things have expressed today in the draft law. I look forward to continuing the constructive discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114100	There are just a few brief remarks. The first is sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114106	Thank you. I would like to commend the government for taking this initiative, which I think is necessary. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I have my curiosity about where the climate is coming in, as the draft law has been formulated. For me and for the alternative, it is incredibly important that we can also use our climate policy situation, especially the fact that we have joined the Paris Agreement as part of the argument in cases such as these. Can the Minister explain where it comes in or whether there is perhaps a need for an amendment or clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114148	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll for the question. It does not, because we do not believe that it is the right instrument. It is thus transit and pipelines which do not connect to Danish energy supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114202	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114204	Yes, but I wanted to say that it was immediately a logical part of what could be called the foreign policy aspects, because we have an international agreement, the Paris Agreement, which we have concluded, and thus our climate policy is part of it. Will the Minister confirm or deny that a reference to the Paris Agreement and our climate policy could be used, including in a matter such as this one?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114234	Thank you for the question. It is not my view that a reference to the Paris Agreement could be used in this context. We simply do not believe that this draft law and this issue here are relevant to this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114250	The next brief remark is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114254	That answer puzzles me very much. The Minister says that it is not right to include climate policy in this. I simply believe that modern foreign policy should include the climate struggle, including what global consideration we take, what international agreements are being made. And when we have here a bill to pave the way for politically speaking relations with Nord Stream 2, which will come to the end of the day if it is implemented, to allow them in Germany to replace nuclear power with gas, it will also have a climate effect and an effect on what solutions will be chosen in the future. In Germany, they could choose a massive expansion of renewable energy instead of investing in the import of gas from other countries. So I think that there is absolutely climate policy in it, and I think it would be quite natural to bring in a change so that climate policy can also be one of the priorities for making recommendations. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114400	We don't think it's relevant to the bill here. I therefore agree with the questioner that it is obvious that we continue to have some climate discussions with the European Union. That is also why Denmark points out that some of these issues are probably better dealt with in a European context than in a narrow national context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114421	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114422	I also have the impression that some countries in the European Union are dealing with climate problems and that some countries want to take the lead in international efforts to convert to sustainable energy and help developing countries with their conversion. So it's true that this has to be lifted in a larger forum. However, I hope that there is an understanding that the text of the legislative proposal can be extended to include climate considerations and that it should be something that is being taken forward in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114456	Thank you for the question. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we handle things in the right forums. And here it is our view that issues of climate are dealt with in other forums. Here the government wants foreign, security and defence policy considerations to be included in the picture when deciding on questions about drawing gas, pipe and electricity lines in Danish territorial waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114522	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114539	The debate is open. I take the rapporteurs in the order in which I see the rapporteurs in the Chamber, so I shall start with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012114605	Thank you. Well, I can just give the Social Democrat speech, so it makes sense what is being said. Oh! The law on changing the law on building conservation sounds a little boring to some, for me it sounds incredibly exciting. The amendment of the law is, of course, about the possibility of disarming the interior of a number of protected buildings whose inner conservation value has been lost due to remodeling or renovation. Why this bill now? Well, this is because there are about 9,000 listed buildings that have been reviewed in the period 2010-16 by the Danish National Palace and Culture Agency to find out what the state of these buildings really is, and in that process the owners have also been guided. Fortunately, the conclusion was that most of these listed buildings are well preserved and in good condition. There was, however, a small minority with which there were some problems, and that is approx. 500 of these, which are the subject of the draft law. What we then want with the bill is to divide the conservation into an external protection and then allow the owners to change things inside, because the conservation values are simply no longer there. I have looked at what could be permitted changes, and that is for example. to change space size, to move non-bearing partitions, to set up new partitions, to replace the kitchen and bath, to move the location of the kitchen etc. etc. We have seen a number of examples of this in the Ministry where some meetings were held, and that is all very well. It will, of course, make it easier for citizens and businesses to modernise the interior, which no longer meets the conservation conditions. However, I do not think that the legislative proposal is far-reaching enough. In the Danish People's Party we have a number of proposals on what could also have been done, which unfortunately are not included, and here we simply need to clarify whether this change of law can protect buildings whose exterior is worthy of conservation, even if the interior does not comply with the provisions; that possibility was previously provided with A and B-peaces. If we had that opportunity, it would ensure much more historic and conservational buildings. The possibility of protecting the exterior of certain buildings worthy of conservation would make it possible to secure buildings more effectively against the arbitrary use of cultural heritage by local authorities, and it would also make it a little more attractive to have the house protected. As far as I understand the amendment of the law, and here I look at the Minister, it only applies to the approx. 500 buildings among the existing 9,000 already listed buildings. Another thing we would like to look at a little is that buildings worthy of preservation are today a municipal task, and so they do not always solve that equally well, especially when there are interests at stake. I would like to see a proposal on how to tighten up municipal responsibility for buildings worthy of conservation. It would also be good if we could safeguard the environment around the protected buildings by designating protection zones. What is the use of having a protected house if the surroundings completely change their character? We have previously tabled a resolution on this in the Danish People's Party. Whether it should be an A- or a B-peace or whether it should be a protection zone, we must talk about. It is also clear from section 3 of the Building Conservation Act that buildings more than 50 years old can be set for conservation, but then there is a small note that, in exceptional cases, buildings that are younger can be protected if they are of architectural high value, and that can always be discussed. This certainly led to the Viking Ship Museum being protected, and a museum at Bornholm, which was no more than 20 years old before it was protected. I would like the 50-year rule to be general so that you cannot go ahead earlier. It's always good to have a little time before you look at whether buildings are to be protected. Then I would also like to know, in connection with the 1536 rule that all buildings before that date are protected, to find out why just 1536? Is that also true of churches? That is also something we need to look at. Churches before 1536 are automatically protected? But we have to look at all this in the next round, Minister. The Danish People's Party is pleased that the Minister has begun to modernise the Building Conservation Act so small, but we therefore consider it a first small attempt to make the law more up-to-date. The work is, of course, far from complete, but we look forward to further progress and we will ask some questions during the committee procedure. We support the moving bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115130	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one with brief comments. The next rapporteur is Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115141	Thank you. This bill deals with the rules applicable to changes and renovations of listed buildings. Nowadays, the legislation is in such a way as to seek authorisation for all changes that do not refer to as general maintenance, whether they are changes in the outside or the inner part of the building. Today, as you know, we operate with only one conservation value. With this bill, the government wants to end this. In future, we should not only work with one conservation value, but instead have a differentiated approach to building conservation. Specifically, the bill means that some listed buildings should only be protected on the outside. In other words, if the owner of a listed building, for example, would like to create a new floor, the person should not apply for permission for such a change if the conservation value no longer applies to the inner part of the building. The background to the bill is Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen's recent survey of listed buildings in Denmark • a survey that just showed that some of our listed buildings have great conservation value outside, but to a very small extent or not inside. This supports the mapping that a more differentiated approach to the area makes sense. Current legislation in this area creates both unnecessary bureaucracy and ambiguity in relation to the rules on the conservation of protected buildings, where the conservation values in the interior are no longer present. 500 listed buildings. By adopting this bill, we will, among other things, be voting in favour of it. the owners of the buildings covered are freer and lighten the administrative burden of the authorities in the course of the proceedings. Both make good sense, and on that basis, of course, the Left supports the bill. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress the following: this relaxation is not an expression of the fact that the Left compromises on the preservation of our protected buildings. We need to think about the changes we are making. However, it is the view of the Left that this has been taken into account in the legislative proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115353	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one with brief comments. And now I see that the range of rapporteurs is being complete, so with the agreement of the other rapporteurs I shall go back to the rapporteur who should have made the first speech. I do not see anyone protesting, so I give the floor to Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115420	Thank you, President, and apologies for the delay. The listed buildings that we have in Denmark have a great national and cultural value, from Aalborg Station across Aarhus City Hall to the home of Hans Christian Andersen in Odense. The draft law we are discussing here concerns the amendment of the law on the conservation and conservation of buildings and urban environments. The purpose of the bill is to change the conditions of the buildings which no longer have an inner conservation value. In those buildings the exterior must remain protected, but with the law it will no longer be necessary to apply for permission until the interior of the buildings is rebuilt. Such a change would, firstly, make it easier for the owners of the buildings and, secondly, it would facilitate the proceedings of the authorities, which could of course take time to deal with more urgent cases. So the new proposal thus ensures, we think, a proper balance between the conservation value of a building and the cost of conservation. The proposal is made on the basis of a national review of our protected buildings in Denmark. It has been prepared by Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen and has created an overview of the state of the approx. 9,000 listed buildings we have at home. And it is indeed gratifying that the review concludes that the vast majority of buildings are in good condition. The listed buildings constitute a piece of important Danish cultural history, which we can be proud to preserve and also proud to pass on to posterity. However, the review also concludes that about 500 buildings have only conservation value in the exterior, but internally have been rebuilt or modified to such an extent that it is no longer sensible to maintain a full conservation. That is why it is also sensible to amend the law. The cost of rebuilding a protected building must be the equivalent of the conservation value of the building, both for the owners and for society. That is what the draft law will ensure, and we think that is a positive change in relation to the current legal situation. In addition, it is positive that the bill facilitates both public and private burdens, because the amendment of the law will mean that the Ministry of Culture will have to deal with fewer cases, and since the amendment of the law will provide a better opportunity to rebuild, it will at the same time create a more flexible framework for business and owners. That's a good thing. We have noted that the Architects' School Aarhus and the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts School for Architecture, Design and Conservation have had a number of concerns about this. We must take this into account in the work of the committee. In conclusion, I would just like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party greatly appreciate the cultural history of the protected buildings in Denmark, but it is also necessary to ensure a balance between costs, inconvenience and conservation value, which is why we recognise the need for up-to-date changes when necessary. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115740	Thank you to the rapporteur. And before I give the floor, I would like to say that we are taking a lunch break after the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012115754	Thank you. There are listed buildings in Denmark, whose conservation value lies only in the building's exterior and in the building's main structure, but where the interior of the building has no conservation value whatsoever. In these cases, Enhedslisten agrees that it must be easier for the owner to renovate, modernise and remodel the unsaved parts, even if we understand that, in the worst case scenario, it may involve a risk that a protected building will be exposed to an internal scam modernisation, which cannot be said to be progressing from craft or aesthetic pointers. So, if that is what the government is proposing, then Enhedslisten is on board. But is that the proposal made by the government? As you know, the devil is always in the detail, and we have noted in the proposal that § 7a has been given the following wording: • The Minister of Culture may decide that for a building protected by this law, the essential architectural or cultural historical value of which is found solely or predominantly in the exterior of the building and in the main structure of the building, rules are laid down in accordance with § 10 (1). 6, use. ▪ Why does it say predominantly? What does that mean? Does this mean that if we vote in favour of this proposal, we will also vote in favour of the idea that buildings which are partially protected by their interiors can be modified without approval? In the Enhedslisten, as I have said, we are positive about the stated intentions that make it easier for the owners of protected buildings to change the interior of the building, which has no conservation value whatsoever, but we are certainly not positive about making it easier for an owner to change by an interior worthy of preservation. The easiest thing would be for the Minister to come up here and announce that the term will largely be removed from the bill, because then the problem will be solved. But if that does not happen, we will have to look at it in the forthcoming committee debates so that it is clear to everyone what this law is really going to mean. Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the consultation parties who took the summer break to prepare the reply to the Minister for this bill; it has been very well done. I can tell those who do not know that the bill was sent to a hearing on 3 July with a deadline for replying on 21 August.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012120032	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would now like to interrupt the sitting for a lunch break until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130000	I shall now resume the sitting. The first one on the platform after the break is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130014	Thank you. We are discussing a bill on the conservation and conservation of buildings and urban environments. Let me say this straight away: it is a good proposal that the Minister for Culture is making here. We must safeguard our protected buildings, and this does not alter this proposal, but rather it creates greater credibility about the conservation that is where we are increasingly or increasingly beginning to distinguish between the interior of the building and the outside of the building. The reality today is that many with a protected building complex wonder when they look at the interior of the building, which may have changed over time by several turns, that it is then still to be regarded as a conservation that gives a violent bureaucracy and confusion about what you have to do with such a building at all. It's bureaucratic, it's difficult, it's expensive, and it's perhaps hardest to make people understand that you have to work that way. So it's important, and what this proposal contributes to is that in future you will actually be able to see the meaning of the conservation that has become part of these buildings. So it provides a greater space for the owners of the buildings, and it continues to ensure what is worthy of preservation, that is to say, the continued conservation. This ensures the buildings built at a time when the possibility of conservation of the building was created due to values to be preserved. And then we'll put together a bill that's better suited to reality. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130205	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130222	Thank you. Then it is almost a pity to get up and destroy the good atmosphere, because we are very critical of this bill, especially after we have read the many consultation answers that have come in. In particular, the consultation answers from the Aarhus School of Architecture, the School of Architecture of the Academy of Fine Arts, the Landsforeningen for Bygnings- og Landskabsculture, I think raise some issues that are important to clarify before we simply vote through this. First of all, the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten referred to this text in the proposal, this with the greatest degree, and it is of course important that it be clarified so that there is no such rubber band in this proposal which opens up a whole lot. Then I also think that some of the answers to some of the questions that are important to take up were raised, among others. This is about how you're going to break with the way we like to work with building conservation, where we look at the whole building as a whole. Then this is also raised, because there are several people who write it that you have difficulty in seeing why, because we already have the possibility of the differentiated procedure, which is also the purpose of this, namely that you can differentiate the protections. These opportunities already exist today, and that is one of the things I think we should look at in committee, i.e. whether there are already opportunities for this, so that we do not need to weaken the conservation law as it stands today. This comes in the wake of L 148 from the spring, where we also had to tamper with the conservation law, and I know that there will be something more in the spring. I actually agree that there can be good sense in looking at it when it's just the facade. However, I am a little worried about taking such important legislation as conservation legislation in bits rather than looking at the overall complex legislation and actually taking a stand on it all, so that we do not weaken the legislation in some areas and then do not get it right elsewhere in the legislation. So, as a starting point, we cannot support what it is, but of course we are proactive in the work of the committee and are trying to find answers to some of the uncertainties we have so that we can see if we can find common ground somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130447	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130505	Thank you. After all, the bill deals with a small corner of the building conservation law, i.e. those cases where protected buildings have lost their inner conservation value as a result of conversions. This is done on the basis of this review of protected buildings, about 9,000 cases, of which some 500 have been estimated to have lost their inner conservation value due to conversions. These conversions have not been illegal, I assume, since they have been carried out during a period when this type of conversion was legal, because it was then another law and other categories that regulated the area. So we see it as a very pragmatic proposal, which is really about hitting exactly the limited group, namely these approx. 500 buildings, which have therefore been modified internally, and where it does not therefore make sense to impose these very strict requirements in connection with changes. That is why we do not see it as a breach of the principle of seeing the building as a whole, because there is no question of new conservations being put into new categories. This new option, which is set out in section 7, paragraph 7. A, of course, is not something you want to use in terms of replacements, but it is an option that should be used especially for these 500 buildings. So we do not see it as a completely new regime in this area, but just as a pragmatic proposal to make special regulation for these 500 buildings, which have in fact been regulated in a different way and are now part of a group where they may not quite fit in. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130701	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130717	In Denmark we have a proud tradition of protecting and preserving buildings with cultural historical value. For the Conservative People's Party, it is of course a matter of priority that we retain our physical cultural values for future generations. A protected building is not just a building, but a living story about our history and culture. We must jointly commit each other to preserving the physical cultural values of society for the benefit of all Danes. The protected and historical buildings are tangible symbols of Danish identity and national feeling, whether it is the Royal Theatre or a protected farm in outer Jutland. Ownership must give way to the value of common cultural symbols. As stated in the original conservation law of 1918: Social interest in the preservation of such excellent buildings, through which Danish culture and history are reflected for centuries, is so significant that the interests of the private owner have to some extent to be left behind. It's still true today. On the other hand, regulation should not be too square, and conservation should not be too much of an intervention in citizens' property rights. The best way to maintain a building is to allow citizens to use and maintain it appropriately. All buildings lose something of their value when there is no life and activity in them. At the same time, the administration of the conservation system must be fair and effective, and this is, in our view, also the aim of the legislative proposal. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill put forward by the Minister for Culture. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130914	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012130928	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. There have been a number of very specific comments which we will of course take along with you and you will be welcome to ask written questions during the committee procedure, if you wish. I would just like to make a few comments on the specific points. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party points out a number of things about the possibility of protecting entire environments, the difference between what is about the conservation worthy and which lies with the municipalities, and the actual conservation that lies with the conservation authorities, and that is one of the things we will be discussing in the spring to see if further revisions are needed. So that part of it I look forward to returning to. Sir. Christian Juhl made a single comment about some wordings, that with substance or indifference, etc., and let us have a talk about it, because of course it has to be clear what we are talking about here, so we will also come back to that. To Mr. Rasmus Nordquist I would like to say that, if there are questions that need further clarification, the alternative is of course welcome at all times both to ask written questions, but also to ask questions, because of course we would like it to be provided in as good a way as possible, because it has to be something that strengthens the legitimacy of this whole area. Then I'd like to say something to Mr. Knox. Naser Khader of the Conservatives. Is he gone? No. I have learned a new concept today, namely the outer Jutland, and I would like to hear a little more about what the outer Jutland is. I live in Horsens, is it the inside or the outside? We can come back to that because it was a page note. Let me be clear, and all the rapporteurs have also stressed this, that we must safeguard our protected buildings here in Denmark. We have used the years from 2010 to 2016 to make a complete review of the 9,000 buildings we have and they form a very important part of our cultural heritage, and the bill here does not change the conservation status of the listed buildings, they are protected still and as much before, if and when it is adopted. However, the legislative proposal has to deal specifically with a problem that we have identified, because the review of the 9 000 buildings has shown that some 500 buildings over time have lost or may never have had conservation values in the interior of the buildings. And for those buildings, the conservation values existed only in the exterior of the buildings, but to such an extent that the buildings must remain fully protected and they still form an essential part of our common national cultural heritage. As is the case today, we know that on many occasions the marvelous owners have expressed their view that it is bureaucratic and difficult to apply for any change in buildings beyond normal maintenance, even if there are no conservation values left in the interior. It is unnecessary, it creates trouble for the owners, it creates trouble for the authorities that have to pay the cases and deal with them, so it makes no sense. The bill therefore gives the owners of buildings where there is nothing of value in the interior, a little more space to rebuild. You do not have to apply for permission if, for example, you do not have to apply for permission. must make a new kitchen or set up a new partition, change a door or something. It is only if the reconstructions relate to the building's external or supporting structures that authorisation still needs to be sought, and that, of course, needs to be done. However, the assessment of whether the conservation values still exist does not itself, and it is important to make it clear. It is the conservation authority that decides whether or not a building has conservation values inside it. So the bill does not create any uncertainty as to what applies to the listed buildings, because the owners will know that and it will be recorded on the property. I think it is important that we are guaranteed legitimacy about the way we do these things, and that means that there must be coherence and credibility in the area of building conservation. Today, some of the owners cannot see the meaning of the requirements that come with a conservation. I understand that, and it is a pleasure for me to be able to say to the rapporteurs that there is in fact also a broad political understanding of it. With the bill, we are creating a link between the conservation values of the buildings and the demands of the authorities on the owners, and thus I am sure that we will have the necessary legitimacy. So I look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and, as I have said, we will be available if there are any questions that you wish to clarify in greater detail along the way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131417	In any case, there is a question of something that needs to be clarified. It's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131421	Thank you and thank the Minister for that speech. As I said, I am also looking forward to entering into the committee's work on this, because we can understand the purpose of this. I would like to hear from the Minister about this particular differentiation, that is to say that there is really a possibility of this change of practice, now that you have these differentiated conservation descriptions that have come into this great analysis. So there is really an opportunity for what is the purpose of this, even now, as the law stands. That's one. The other thing I'd like to hear about is that we had L 148 in the spring, and now we have this. And then we'll have something else next spring. Would it not make sense and make sense because it is complex how we protect our buildings, which are protected, and building environments etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131527	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131528	Thank you. To the end: exactly this part of what is about the inner conservation values, I think that is a matter we can take a position on and that we should take a position on at this stage. From my perspective, this will not affect the issues we may be looking at in the spring. So I don't see there's a conflict between these things. The fact that we are adopting this law now is not something that will have neither positive nor negative significance in relation to the other issues that we will be discussing in the spring. When we make the legislative amendment, it is because there are not the same options as things are now. There is a need for clarification, and this is the right time to do so, following on from the overall review of the 9,000 buildings that we can now see that there are 500 buildings, about which it makes no sense anymore, that you should also search and throughout the mill, when it is changes in the interior and if there is nothing to preserve. It is good to clarify and clarify legislation, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131637	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131646	One could imagine, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that there could be some scam-modernisation to the detriment of a protected building which might even affect the protected exterior in the long term. It is not necessarily the case that because you do something inside, which does not in the first place affect the outside, it does not affect the outside in the long term. We here in the Danish Parliament have had some major water damage in the Proviant building, even a small water damage in here in the castle too. I mean, things can happen that also destroy the outside. What will the Minister do to prevent fraud?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131728	Well, well, phony modernizations. Was that the word that was used? Fake or what? I just didn't hear it, but it's illegal, and it has been so far, and it will be in the future. No scam modernisation shall be carried out. After all, the peace authorities are very aware that this is only about a very small part of the total protected building stock of the 9 000 buildings, where we get the legislation in line with what is real. And then it is the case that you cannot guard against everything, for example. a moisture damage that might come from a flood or something. Well, you can never guard yourself completely. But with this legislation we ensure that there is a concrete assessment in each case. The purpose of all this is precisely to ensure the best possible protection, but at the same time not to make it so rigid that the entire conservation complex loses legitimacy in relation to the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131834	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131837	When I remodel at home in my own house, because I do, as an old builder I have a certain sense of what it takes, but I always say: what are the standards and standards? But even if the municipality gives me permission to make a change to my building, they won't come and control it afterwards. Will the Minister ensure that it is professionally sound, both what is planned to be done, but also what is actually being done in these conversions, since it can have far-reaching consequences not only if something natural happens, but also if what is being done inside the house is crafted recklessly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131917	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012131918	Well, there are many things being done inside the small homes in Denmark that you can discuss the quality of. When we do this relaxation, it is quite clear that we must not go in to change, for example. bearing structures because it is something that affects the entire building complex. So it gets clarified where it is that you can do something and where it is that you can't do anything. However, we have seen examples of which the rapporteurs have also been invited to take a look at the fact that someone who is not very pretty dies up inside a protected house, the most wonderful building seen from the outside, which is incredibly beautiful, and in which it has to be said that we are facing a protected house here and when you go through the front door, it looks like I don't know what, to put it bluntly. I believe that the legislation makes it very clear where it is that there is authorisation and where is it that is not authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012132014	We thank the Minister for Culture. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012132030	The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012132041	After all, this is an important bill, which is the implementation of a broad political agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. It is, of course, the basic law for the distribution of funds for voluntary association, for sport and for cultural activities and a wide range of other social purposes in Denmark. So in this way, this is a bill with which we decide how we support what is a crucial part of Denmark and the way we work, and the framework and conditions we provide for our voluntary association life, sport and a wide range of cultural purposes and cultural activities. With this, we will ensure much greater budgetary security for the permanent beneficiaries of the so-called distribution funds. So far, it has been the case that from the funds generated by income from Danske Spil, a percentage has been obtained each year. Thus, it has been uncertain from year to year how much money one would receive. Here we make it a fixed amount received, based on the level of 2013, where there was a high level of distribution, so that the associations can be sure that they can lay their budgets and be sure of the economy they have in the years to come. We do so by dividing the beneficiaries into three groups: group 1, group 2 and group 3, where group 1 and group 2 are guaranteed a fixed amount, and group 3, which is primarily projects with project funds allocated by the individual ministries, will be there, we will regulate if there is less or more in the box. So it is a new model that ensures far greater budgetary security for the vast majority of beneficiaries of distribution funds. It is for the benefit and benefit of the entire Sports and Association Denmark. The second aspect of the draft law is that, when we cannot be sure how much revenue comes from gambling, and there is therefore a risk that for one year there will be less revenue, we will change the distribution of risk. It was before that that those who received the amounts of the sports and association activities carried half the risk while the State carried the other half, and in future it will be the case that the State bears 60%. of the risk and the beneficiaries 40%. So there is greater certainty in the reduction in the amount of games in favour of sport and association in Denmark. That is also positive. In addition, the draft law provides for the liberalisation of horse racing. In future, it will be able to operate independently with five years' support, which will then be phased out over four years, so that horse racing can organise their own games and thus also secure their own income. So here, too, we have created a solution for horse racing, which has faced challenges in recent years. Finally, that agreement is also guaranteed here, and it has been important for the Social Democrats that money has been set aside to combat gambling. For the back of the coin by having a gambling market and also a state-recognised and partly state-owned gambling market is, of course, that we experience people who become game-dependent and sometimes with huge and unhappy consequences for their lives. That is where the state needs to be involved and help, because when we have a state-regulated and partly state-owned gambling market, it is responsible that we take care of those people who need guidance and help. That is why we are very, very pleased that additional funds have also been set aside here to combat gambling. Finally, I should just like to say that the Social Democrats are pleased with the broad consensus we have on this agreement. It is broadly beneficial for Danish cultural, leisure and sports life.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012132605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012132611	Thank you. Association life is part of the Danish DNA. There are not many people, I think, who are not members of an association in life. It is part of our culture to have an active association life, and for many it begins at an early age. Of course, the choice of association when you are small is often influenced by your parents' own activities and the association choices they have made and, of course, also the surroundings in which you have grown up and the offers that are in a nearby area. For many it is the Sports Association, the Sports Club, the Scout Club or one of the many other associations that will be the beginning of a long life of association. Later, that may change, depending on where you are. Both physically, socially and mentally, it can become a more varied offer of associations that you are presented with, and you choose among them. These are choices that will undoubtedly affect one's behaviour and act as a citizen of society. I myself have had that journey through the association life from active little putty gymnastics to adult gymnastics, as a sports director, a sports teacher and also a member of the board of directors of a sports association. It's been a really exciting journey that's still going on. As a mother, I too, like many other parents, have influenced my children to move along the same path. And all of us there have a network that is important for us to become those that we have become. It is therefore very important that there are also the same opportunities for future generations. There is no doubt that the discussions we had prior to this law being drawn up took time and gave many discussions on the direction in which we should go to distribute the funds as fairly as possible. And it was a difficult process. However, I also believe, as the previous rapporteur says, that we have now reached a broad political approach, taking into account a great deal that we can all not only as individuals but also as political parties can see ourselves in and can defend. For society, it is important that it is a broad political work that is at the root of this legislation. It can provide certainty about what is real for a long time to come, and I am convinced that having a guarantee of what to work from is very important for associations. Of course, we can never know exactly what the game development will be like in the years ahead. However, as we have tried to take this into account by looking at a new risk sharing between the State and the distribution recipients, it is also assessed that there is a more secure financial framework to work from. It should not be a secret today that the division itself into the three groups initially caused some concern to the Danish People's Party and especially to Group 3. We have therefore also noted with satisfaction that the Minister listened to us and responded to the wishes of the Danish People's Party that we should hold an annual status meeting where we can see the accounts of the gambling companies when they are available. And then we can see how it also affects the recipients in Group 3. The fact that there will also be an evaluation after these three years, we think it is very, very important that legislation is generally so that we can see how it has actually happened. And I also believe that legislation such as the one we are currently making is important for us to keep a close watch on whether there are any significant changes that we must then take into account politically. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that in a time of rapid change in many ways we protect our traditions by having a healthy and active association life in Denmark, that we ensure that there is a foundation for ensuring and also willing to strengthen the association life for the joy of all of us, regardless of age or activity level. And therefore the Danish People's Party looks forward very much to following the effects of this legislation and also the consequences it might have. And then, of course, we will be responsive to the reports that may come from society. Because it is very, very important that we ensure precisely that we strengthen the free association life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133022	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133030	The Left is one of the parties behind the political vote agreement on the distribution funds that was concluded at the beginning of 2017, and the bill we are debating now translates precisely the content of that vote agreement. In concrete terms, the proposal here provides for a new model of financing, level and distribution of distribution funds. The purpose of the vote agreement, and hence the bill here too, is to strengthen the economic framework of the association and thus also the framework for the development of our associations. In this case, this is done by helping to reduce the economic uncertainty of voluntary associations, while at the same time strengthening their ability to think in longer-term projects. The latter is possible because we give the associations greater certainty as to which economy they have to do well with forward-looking activities, as opposed to now that the individual association's financial subsidies depend on the profits from Danske Game and the proceeds from the Class Lottery. Of course, both can vary considerably from year to year. I do not want to go into detail on the technical content of the proposal, including the proposed division of the distribution recipients into three groups, but would instead like to emphasise the following: association is a pillar of our society, and the support for our association life is, of course, part of the political DNA of the Left. That is why it is also gratifying that the proposal before us calls for the strengthening of the economic conditions of associations. This is a good example of how, from a political point of view, we can contribute to the optimum conditions of association in order to unfold. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133233	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133238	Thank you. I should like to begin by making a brief comment to my fellow Members, so it could be that we could get the debate going a little bit. It has been a very peaceful meeting today. I sometimes find it grotesque that we are talking about the fact that it is very good that we have games to benefit society. You could finance society in a slightly more orderly way. In other words, if there is a high risk that a large group of people will be affected by gambling because the state is helping to promote gambling with the noble purpose that the associations should have some money to work with, then perhaps one could find a less damaging way of getting that money in. I do not think that is a valid argument. It is the same as saying that we are putting some taxes on cigarettes and tobacco and then using the argument that that tax can be used to combat the diseases that smoke. It's kind of a wrinkly way of arguing, to the best of my knowledge. In the view of the Enhedslisten, there are many good things in this proposal that we can certainly support when we have to make some changes. For example: there is a transitional arrangement for the phasing-out of aid for horse racing and the change of risk sharing between the State and the distribution recipients from 50-50 to 60-40. Nevertheless, we have a little difficulty in finding out whether it is at all relevant what we think of this proposal. For it seems that if, for some reason, we are opposed to liberalisation of, for example, online bingo, for example. In order to combat gambling, yes, you are not invited to join the nice company to discuss a change in the distribution model, which forms the basis for this proposal, or to distribute the funds. If that is the case, then it does not make much sense for us to do anything other than in due course to press the yellow button when we have to take a position on the proposal. But if that is the case, we will use the next committee procedure to find out if the Minister cannot clarify it here in the Chamber as soon as everyone can listen. Then, in this case too, I would like to thank those consultative partners who have spent the summer holiday preparing a hearing reply to the Minister for this bill. I think the Minister and the Ministry really must be happy to have such enthusiastic partners. The proposal was sent in consultation on 4 July and had a deadline for replying on 18 August. I think it's well done that in society around the world, you actually have the power to service the ministry like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133534	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133544	Thank you. The treatment of this bill gets more and more boring every time we deal with it in the Folketing. For if you look at it a little historically, the Danish Tip Service was established in 1948 and made its first profit in 1949 and the purpose was to raise money for sports and good non-profit purposes. There was a significant interest in getting part of the tips profit, and therefore it was always followed with interest, and every time the Folketing tried to change this law maybe because new areas were intruding and one wanted to be with the profit recipients sat in the first row here and looked at the parties' position whether they were now for or against. It was followed very closely. On the basis of this, it is now the state that has to take more responsibility for whether it goes up or down, and I do not know whether interest will fall. Originally, it was the profit recipients who had to take that responsibility, and it may well be that Mr. Christian Juhl then one day is right in that we are approaching a situation where the difference between whether it is on the Finance Act or whether it is on some regulated law, where the state is still responsible, is to be overlooked, and this is a situation which I have often warned against coming into. However, this proposal is, in the present situation, a good proposal which translates into the vote agreement reached between a number of parties, which takes account of the original beneficiaries of profits, and these are the major sports organisations and the Danish Youth Council, etc. These are some major organisations which have an objective which we believe can also succeed, and that is a goal to include as many as possible in our voluntary association work. And they have some clear objectives for 2025, where 50%. of all Danes would like to be in an association and 75%. of all Danes should be athletic. And it has to be said that there are actually good chances of achieving those goals, and then every penny has been well spent. If we then stop it along with the range of other good purposes that get subsidies from here, then it is actually quite excellent. After all, this bill also solves the problem that has come around horse sports in Denmark. Now there is a liberalised model where there is a transitional regime of five years and a phasing-out of four years, and then you have to be able to live on your liberalised game, and we believe in that. The discussion among parties has been about the model with groups 1, 2 and 3 in relation to overflow, i.e. if there was also enough overflow to the last group. After all, there is an agreement to follow this very closely, and it needs to be evaluated in time. In the conciliation circle, we will have regular reports of what things look like, and this year it seems now that the model is holding water and that there is money for the three groups. So with these comments I would say that if it gets more boring, then the interest in discussing it falls, and then it becomes almost as boring as any other legislative proposal. We have to see if it can be kept alive, but the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133916	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012133922	Thank you. This is, of course, another of the legislative proposals that have been negotiated in a closed circle of conciliation parties, in which we did not want to include new parties, and we are of course very sorry that this is another conciliation in the field of culture, where we did not want to hear us give our opinion on how to make a distribution pool more sensible. That is why it is a little strange to stand and have to take a position on it, because there are, of course, good and bad things in any proposal. It's good to look at budget security for some associations, but of course there's also this whole division into the different groups, and if we'd been sitting there, it might have looked different. Among other things: I think that the conciliation parties should have included Games's response in their deliberations, in other words in relation to this vote agreement. From the point of view of the alternative, we are going to be reasonably neutral about this and vote yellow at the final vote, because we cannot see how we can even play a part in this because it has taken place in a conciliation circle where we have not been welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134032	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134047	We are part of this agreement, so it is not a great revelation to say that the Radical Left supports the proposal. Nor is it a secret that it is a proposal in which we have all given and taken, and we fully agree with the fundamental motivation behind what is to create stability and predictability for associations. Conversely, it was not our wish that the large and well-upholstered umbrella organisations in sport should be given more consideration than others. It is in the government base, and that was the premise, and we agreed to it. However, in this way, there may be parts of the agreement where we might have prioritised differently if we had to decide everything. But that is politics, and this is an excellent compromise, in which I think we have all been taken into account to some extent. At any rate, we have been assured that society has gained the stability that is demanded, even though some people have not quite landed at the level they would have liked. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134147	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134151	Thank you. In January, the government concluded an agreement with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party to strengthen the free association life in the distribution of profits from gambling. And it is fantastic that there is such broad support for strengthening our civil society. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that civil society and society are a cornerstone of our entire society. Civil society carries out some of the country's most important cultural and social tasks, and it is also in private civil society that these tasks are best dealt with. Here Danish art, culture, debate, sport, music and dance and much more are conveyed to ordinary Danes. This is where Danes meet across social layers, and a strong civil society is, in short, a prerequisite for cohesion in Denmark. In the ideal world, these objectives should not be dependent on public support, but we must recognise that some purposes are too important to leave to the market. It is sensible to give large major organisations in the field of sport room for manoeuvre through budgetary security so that they can plan their action over a multiannual period and that free association as a whole is strengthened. We would prefer the state to sell state companies where the private market can easily meet the Danes' needs and wishes, and it is not a state task to run the gambling business. Therefore, we should also in the long term sell those parts of Danske Games which include tips, casinos and poker, while for the moment it is fine that the profits from Danske Lottery Games A/S can go to the free association life. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134359	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture. Excuse me, sir. Naser Khader, please come back, because there is just a brief remark that I had missed. I'm sorry. It's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134415	Exceptionally, I even think I was in good time at least pressing the button. I'd like to ask you, sir. Naser Khader about a little bit of deepening. One thing, of course, is that you can be against public support for associations. I do not agree with that. However, I would like to know whether the problem is no closer to the fact that the public is helping to provide associations with money through gambling, which may risk turning some Danes into gambling players. I think it would be more honest for us to tone clean flags and say that we have a point on the Finance Act where there is support for the associations that we think are good for young people, and that is it. Because then we're free from the moral dilemma that I think everyone really must have in mind when we talk about these things, that is, using games to get some money in. I think it would be more fair to levy taxes and say that then we will share the cost, if that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134519	As it is today, when the state owns and operates gambling, we think it is sensible to use some of it for civil society, but in the long term, and this is actually also in the government base, the state companies that are in direct competition with private companies must be sold. So we'd like them to be sold. Then we will have to discuss afterwards how these activities can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134547	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134548	I am a little surprised that the rapporteur will not take a position at all on the dilemma that exists, namely that this is an activity which actually leads to people getting into very serious situations. Some struggle for years to get out of it; some even lose their homes and homes, perhaps even their families. Well, it's not just such a little nuisance about these things. It's a serious thing for those who get hit by gambling.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134620	I admit that gambling is a huge problem. A book has just been published, which many of the MFs have probably also received. I haven't read it yet, but it's about gambling. So this is a huge problem that we need to address. In relation to the second, we think that it is appropriate, as long as the state owns and operates gambling activities, that there is support from this company.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134653	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012134658	Thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs here at first reading today. This is a very important deal. Many people have mentioned the importance of association in Denmark. There is a broad political consensus on this, which is why it is good that we now have security in relation to funding on some very, very important fronts. It was also just noticed by someone that it was a very boring bill. But perhaps the boring legislative proposals are the best, because then it actually shows that we agree that there are good arguments for doing so; then we do not have to smoke so much on each other. But it is certainly positive for the distribution recipients that there is so much agreement as to what the model looks like. It is, after all, the implementation of the political agreement on a change that was concluded in January. In short, the changes are, firstly, a change in the financing model, secondly, a change in the distribution of funds in a fundamental way and, thirdly, a phasing-out of aid for horse racing after a transitional period. I would just like to make a few comments on each of those points. With regard to the financing model, it is changed in such a way that the risk distribution between the State and the recipients of the distribution is changed from a 50-50 to a 60-40 risk sharing by way of deviations from the fixed distribution ceiling, which means that the State will in future help to secure the beneficiaries to a greater extent whose profits and dividends are lower than the fixed ceiling. At the same time, the State will receive a greater share of the profit if profits and dividends exceed the ceiling. At the same time, we adjust the ceiling so that both state and distribution recipients are kept financially harmless, and it has been in demand for a very long time. As far as distribution is concerned, it is now changing and there is the big difference that the fixed recipients will receive a fixed amount from the distribution funds in the future. In the past they received a fixed percentage of the total amount. For many, this has created great uncertainty because the final amount depended on the development of profits and profits from the two gambling companies. So the new distribution model will ensure a greater degree of budgetary security for the permanent beneficiaries, and that is at least the intention of the voluntary association life, which plays a huge role for us in Denmark. Having said that, there has been concern in the course of the hearing, and indeed today, about the funds for Group 3, which are the so-called project funds. Group 3 consists of some project funds located in the various ministries. The idea is, of course, that it is an overflow model, so that group 1 and group 2 are first secured, and if there are additional surpluses then project funds can be set aside. And we have discussed that concern a great deal. The aim of the political agreement was to ensure budgetary security for the main organisations, and it was a premise of the agreement that this could potentially be done at the expense of the Ministry's project funds. However, I would like to say that there are many of us who share that concern, and that is also why we are going to follow it so closely, both in the annual balance sheet, but also in relation to the fact that we have been put in place, that we will have a proper evaluation after the three years. So it is the idea of the evaluation clause that we should see what it looks like in a three-year perspective and how it will also have concrete significance in relation to Group 3 funds. It is also the case that we have agreed that if the forecast in the third quarter of a given year shows that there will be no funding for Group 3, then the model will be discussed. You're gonna call to see what this is, what this is gonna mean, and if there's anything we can do about it. As far as horse racing is concerned, it has also been a very, very long and thorough discussion that we have had. In January, an agreement was reached on the liberalization of gambling, among other things. horse racing, which was implemented by Bill 196, which was adopted in the last session just before the summer holiday. One element of that law is the introduction of a special contribution from gambling providers to horse racing, which will then in future provide support for this sport. That is why we are also proposing in the legislative proposal that after a transitional period of five years, the aid from the distribution will be phased out over four years. The aid during the transitional period corresponds to the level received by horse racing in 2016. I believe that the support will help to ensure that sport can move to a more liberalised market and, once the distribution aid has been phased out, horse racing will only receive support for sport in general. The level of support for sport in general will be fixed in the phase-out and financed by the means of distribution. As part of the agreement on a new model of aid for horse racing, the Fund for horse racing is closed and the aid is distributed directly to sport during the transitional period. I am very confident that the overall model of support for horse racing can help ensure sport in the future too. With those words, I would like to sign for the debate. It has been a long process and a demanding process. There is also a lot of technology in this, but I am glad that there has been such broad support for the proposal as the debate here today also reflects. I look forward to the further examination of the bill and hope for a positive treatment by the Committee on Culture as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135245	There's a question. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135248	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I have such a slightly more procedural question to the Minister, because this is, after all, the implementation of a vote agreement. Why is it that the Minister has chosen to negotiate a vote agreement alone with some conciliation parties from an old settlement instead of inviting the parties of the Folketing widely into negotiations on this new agreement on the distribution pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135311	I have to admit, sir, I can't give you a straight answer. Rasmus Nordqvist, for this has been a very, very long process, and then it was completed shortly after I became minister. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist and the alternative were not included in the very, very long course. So I jumped on the truck that was moving. I simply cannot answer the question now, but I would like to send an answer, because my predecessor must have thought about it. So I would like to send an answer to the alternative. I haven't considered it on my own.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135350	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135351	It is precisely because I think it is important to keep looking at the fact that there is something called conciliation and then there is a vote agreement here. At any rate, I would like there to be an awareness of this in the Ministry of Culture forward-looking, since we have a challenge in the very many agreements reached in the field of culture and where it has not been the intention of the conciliation parties that the alternative should join the settlements that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135412	I'll pay attention to it. I would say that my own party is also relatively new. We have had the same problem many times. It's gonna be okay with time, so I'm gonna be able to comfort sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135422	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135425	Following on from that, I would like to know whether the Minister will consider himself independently.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135432	Of course I will. In the future, I am making a lot of self-confidence, for example. the media agreement, which we are about to negotiate very soon. It is also the case that the alternative has not been included, but in the preparatory steps already in place this year, even though it is not until next year that we are going to start, the alternative has been fully in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135455	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135456	So I would therefore like to call on the Minister to give himself an independent consideration over the night, because then it might be that the process of the next reading and the next reading could again be included. It could be really, really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135511	I'm gonna have to elaborate on that afterwards, because I don't quite understand that. But if Mr. Christian Juhl afterwards will tell me what was the point of that question, and I will gladly answer it to the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135524	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135540	The debate is open and the first to speak is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012135553	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we are now fulfilling the obligation of the Constitution that we, as a Parliament, legislate on the religions of the deviant people of the people's church, which are so beautifully enshrined in our old constitution. It had probably been formulated in a slightly different way today, but it is a fulfillment of section 69 of the Constitution. My party would also have liked us to comply with some other provisions of the Constitution, namely those provisions to legislate for the people's church. I would also like to welcome the SF, whose rapporteur is sitting in another sitting and therefore cannot be present in the Chamber, and to say that the SF supports the proposal. We are also doing this as a party, but that is why I should like to say a few things about the legislative proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the committee that has been working on this very well. You have made a very fine statement on this. They have had a fine process that other religions have been involved in. Some have been directly involved in the committee, others have been involved in some mid-term consultations, and the Minister has also subsequently had meetings with a great many of the other religions. So there has been a good process. The religions outside the church are very different, so you can't just cut everyone over a comb. That is why it is also a challenge, since we are now making legislation, that legislation should then cover everyone. I myself had the pleasure of attending a day-to-day seminar in which several of the organisations of the religions were present, and this was a very encouraging experience with support for the report that had been submitted. The proposal that we have before us today coincides very much with the recommendations on which the work is based. However, some things have been corrected, including in a proposal that there should be at least 150 senior members. The number has now been reduced to 50 members who are legally resident in Denmark. That is very good, because then at least several of the small religions can apply for recognition on a sound basis will be the common expression in the new law. Therefore, there are several religions that come along and receive the same rights, privileges and duties. The bill contributes to increased equality between the church and the other religions in several respects. The provisions of the Marriage Act on marriage authorization will be the same for those religions that want to have that authority. Decorum requirements for ministers and priests become the same. So the things we have corrected in other legislation are also incorporated into common legislation. There is still no access to religious buildings and their own burial sites, and that does not change at all. I think that is also important for us to say so in the open room today. There are some new demands in the bill here, among others. a requirement for 2 course days to gain knowledge about Danish legislation and Danish family law if you are to have marriage authorisation. Then there will be legal supervision of the organizations and economics of the recognized religions, not in terms of content, but in terms of the way in which religions are run. You also have to hand in accounts, but not large chromed accounts. There will be an easy administration in relation to this, but it is a little important that there is also openness about the construction and economy of other religions. As chairman of the Committee on Churches, I have received some inquiries about the bill even before we had to discuss it here, including a request from the Humanist Society, which seems to us that we should have taken in the life-sight associations with the faith communities, as is done in Norway. Of course, we put this request to the bill, and we have also sent it to the Ministry for comments. Personally, I do not think that we should equate societies of outlook and religions, but it is a good thing to have a debate on which areas we can equate, in which areas we would not be able to and in which areas it would require a change in legislation. For there is a definition of religions in Denmark that goes on to say that it is a community whose members gather about a belief in powers that are above people and natural laws, according to designed doctrines and rituals. And it's kind of hard to take an association under that hat if it doesn't believe in anything. But let's have a good talk about it. I have also been presented with some things that we need to clarify, about the religious stamps that are around, because when you make an arrangement where ministerial books come out of some of the faith communities, does it also have the consequence that there should not be a popular church stamp on a baptism certificate, and should you not use your own stamps on your own documents? At any rate, we need to clarify this, which is why it is a good thing that there is plenty of time for implementation. Moreover, there is also an audit clause in the bill, so that the law will be revised in 2021-22. So I think it is a happy day today, because we are now gathering together on this and hopefully together we will be able to produce a single piece of legislation for the other religions, and I look forward to the debate we will have in the further committee work. But we support the bill, and so does the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012140131	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. It's sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012140140	Thank you, President. It is always with a certain kind of fear and trembling that you expect such a package of laws to come, for God knows what strange things have crept in. Even the best intentions can be destroyed by foolish fools, legislative fools. However, I would like to say that, from the outset, we actually think that this legislative package is a good one. We do this because, for some time now, as far as I am concerned, since I arrived in Parliament in 2011, we have been calling for greater transparency as regards accounts for other religions outside the public church. I simply believe that it is right and proper for a religion which is outside the church but which still receives various advantages from the state to provide accounts that meet the standards that are demanded elsewhere. There has been the normal procedure so far that a religion could seek once, and once one had been recognized as a religion, one really did not have to present accounts anymore. Then it could just run forever. I think that is a good thing that has been corrected. In order to stay in the current tense situation of this radical Islamism riding Europe as a mare, it has been the case that there have been some mosque constructions built on the basis of foreign donations, where it has been very difficult to find out whether this money came from the Muslim Brotherhood in Qatar or Saudi Arabia, or whatever one might imagine. I think it is a good thing that accounts are now called so that we know where the money comes from. We know that those who pay the bill are also in charge of the music. If it is Saudi Arabia that pays for a mosque in Denmark, yes, then it will be the pure wahabism that emanates from there. So that's how it's been good. There are also other things that I think are very good that we have got to grips with: the fact that one is recognised as a religion once, of course, does not mean that one is forever. Of course, if there are irregularities and irregularities and other things, it must be possible to withdraw recognition, so that we do not continue to recognise that is also moral religion, which is entirely on the moon in terms of ordinary civilised behavior. Those things have been good. The rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party has referred to this with the authority of marriage. That is something we already dealt with in the so-called imamloves. So that is to say, it is merely a confirmation of what was the negotiations at the time. So all in all, I think it's been good laws. We would have liked to see it, if it is people who donate, actually to appear. There I understand that the way it is going to be is that the Ministry of Churches is actually aware of who is donating, also into individuals. At any rate, I think it would be a good thing that some people knew about it, so that foreign terrorists cannot sit and donate to different religions in Denmark. I'd say that was really good. Then there's this thistle. There are a few thistles. There is simply something that I do not understand in this draft law, and that is why, on page 31, it says that, when implementing the abolition of ministerial accounting, it must be ensured that, after the transition, neutral name certificates are issued which do not contain official stamps with Christian symbols. Thanks for the coffee. The thing about the religiously neutral official stamp reminds me of Manu Sareen, who, at one point as a minister, proposed gender-neutral toy catalogues. Honestly, I think it's nonsense. I think the Minister may have an explanation for this, but that does not make it any less silly that it has come into this as a legal comment. I would have wanted no matter what the background is, and I ask the Minister that we had taken this discussion before it just came out in the legal notes, so that for any future we should now deal with these religiously neutral official stamps. I really think that's a bad thing. I'd say I came up a little bit in the red field. I have calmed down a little, but I think it might have been good to have a thorough discussion. And then, just to say, I am, in fact, glad that the church is carrying out the civil registration, and I do not think it is doing the least that people can see that it is a Christian religion that is making the civil registration. I believe that both with regard to certificates and with regard to official stamps. I think this is a good idea, and I hope that we can then have a proper debate on this, so that we can find out what is up and down and that, if it is to be implemented, we do not let out of the parishes that they are now about to have religiously neutral stamps. It could make me vote no to this. But I hope the Minister has a good answer. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012140749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012140757	Thank you. This bill brings together and clarifies the rights and duties of religions outside the church. The bill contains both a collection and a codification of existing practices concerning religions. At the same time, it contains a number of new initiatives, including supervision of the statutes and economic conditions of the recognised religions. The bill establishes a common terminology between religions, which means that no distinction is made in the future between recognized religions and approved religions. Thus, the approved and recognised religions are treated in the same way as the rights and obligations attached to recognition under the bill. In this context, I would like to stress that the religions which have been approved or recognised under previous approval schemes continue to be regarded as recognised under the terms of the draft law. The draft law contains two points of relaxation in relation to the current authorisation practice. The requirement for a religion to be organized in accordance with the principles of membership democracy and equal treatment does not continue in the draft law. The background is an assessment of whether stricter demands would make it necessary to withdraw the recognition of some traditional and well-established religions. At the same time, the draft law relaxes the membership requirement from 150 to 50 members. The aim is to get more religions to apply for recognition and thereby gain a better overview of religions in Denmark. In May 2016, an agreement was reached on initiatives aimed at religious ministers. These restrictions will be continued in the draft law. At the same time, the bill introduces new supervision of the organization and finances of the recognized religions. This means that recognised religions must regularly submit information about, for example, economics and new statutes to the Register of Religions, which the Ministry of Churches is obliged to establish and operate. The supervision requires recognised religions to prepare and submit annually the most recent annual accounts published on the Commonwealth Register's website. The aim is to improve the transparency of economic conditions and therefore the financial statements must include information on donations. If religious communities do not comply, the bill provides a direct legal basis for withdrawing the recognition of a religion. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the provisions of the Marriage Law on marriage authorisation for persons in other religions are being moved to the law on religions outside the church. We in Denmark have a long and constitutional tradition of freedom of religion, and this bill ensures that the framework for free worship in Denmark remains known. At the same time, the rights and duties of faith societies are made clear and comprehensible. That is why the Left supports the bill. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141123	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141138	Thank you. I took it a little slow because I thought that the contribution of the rapporteur of the Left had led to a certain debate. After all, this is a very fundamental debate about the relationship between state and church and between politics and religion. The Enhedslisten is a deeply secular party. We believe that freedom of religion must be defended at all times. All people must be allowed to have and carry out their faith and religion, and it is the task of the state to ensure this. But in a true secular society there must be a clear separation of church and state. It is therefore the wish of Enhedslisten that the church of the people should be separated from the state, both economically, legally and administratively, as is the case in, for example, Denmark. Sweden. Our secular basic view also means that in fact, basically, we do not believe that it is at all the task of the state to approve religions. Religious communities should be treated just like all other associations: that they can be created freely without state approval. It also follows, of course, that they should be treated in the same way as other associations. They should not have special economic conditions that they have today, for example. In the form of a large number of deductions, which cost hundreds of millions of kroner a year in total, and of course they should not have transferred public authority tasks. This applies in particular to the legal marriage, which has many civil rights, for example. Inherited consequences. Such an authority should be in our public administration. This does not prevent religions or national churches from having rituals, for example. with marriages and baptisms etc., but the judicial part of a true secular society should lie with public authorities. In relation to the specific law, I would say in relation to the demands of the communities of faith, that it is to such an extent surprising that the government will relax the current demands for religions to be organized in accordance with the principles of membership democracy and equal treatment. It is a clear step backwards, and the Minister may elaborate in his reply which existing religions it is the government believes do not meet those requirements. Then I would like to say a few words about the lack of recognition of life-sight communities. As long as we maintain the idea of a state recognition of religions, it is important for the Enhedslisten that the criteria for recognition follow with time. It is therefore positive that the draft law has to some extent followed this trend when it is no longer necessary to submit creeds or similar canonized texts, but can only submit a description of the teaching tradition. In this way one gets included religions that do not have such descriptions. But we are also concerned with one of the major problems with the bill, namely that we do not open up the possibility of equality between religions and societies of view of life, that is to say, outlooks of life that do not believe in gods or other transcendental powers. But other outlooks are based on e.g. Humanism and the ideas of information, for example in Denmark. represented by Humanist Society, a society of outlooks, which has more members than many recognized religions. Unfortunately, the bill excludes life-sight communities by defining religions on the basis that members must gather together for a belief in powers that are above human beings and natural laws. In doing so, it effectively excludes societies of outlook other than religious ones. This is clearly contrary to the UN recommendations and differs from what several of our neighbouring countries are doing. The UN's then special reporter for Freedom of religion or belief, Heiner Bielefeldt, visited Denmark last year. Then he stressed that by basing the recognition of religious communities on belief in transcendent power, Danish law differs from both European and international human rights, in other words, emphasising that it is contrary to international rules on it. In Norway, there are long-standing equal societies of outlooks and, for example, in Norway. granted them the right to marry. In 2016, there were more than 700 humanistic marriages in Norway. The same is true in Iceland, where I was here this weekend. It is therefore very regrettable that the government, with the law, insists on this discrimination against different outlooks of life. We will table an amendment in the Enhedslisten which will ensure that societies of outlook for life are treated in the same way as religious religions, and we will ask the Minister to explain the position of international human rights on the bill's demand for belief in powers that are above human beings and natural laws. Our position on the legislative proposal will depend on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141658	There are a few questions, and the first one comes from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141707	If we go outside the draft law, as the rapporteur did at first, when a lot was said about the state and church, I must confess that I know that the rapporteur is a professing communist, and I have grown up with communist regimes which have been quite terrible, the Soviet Union, Maokina, Pol Pot etc., and in this way I actually associate something very good with the people's church. Because there's such a quiet and quiet thing about the church as there wasn't over those Communist regimes and it's just to address the whole state and church problem. Then I would also like to say that there are sometimes some in the Folketing who invoke human rights in good time and prematurely. I would really like to know how it is against human rights that one makes a distinction between religions where one believes in God and associations. These are two different laws. How does this conflict with human rights? Those are big words, and I do not really know whether the rapporteur has any evidence whatsoever of saying so, or whether it is just such a spinal cord reaction, in which the list of human rights is just drawn up, so as to indicate that the people's church and communities of faith are being sought where the pepper grows. It is, of course, an honest matter, but I must say that I do not believe in it, but the rapporteur can explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141833	Then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012141837	The questioner is guilty of many, many wrong considerations. I'll be happy to send you my speech afterwards. I do not want religions where the pepper grows, but I want us to fight for the right that everyone has their own religion. That's what I started my whole speech with. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is that one cannot be a professing Communist. I am a socialist in presenting what position I have politically. I am religious or religious, or what the questioner thinks, atheist or at least unbelievers. This is my starting point for my life, and it is my approach to both the way I live, but also to the issues I encounter on my way. So I hope it gives a little clarity. We are just trying to say that from the side of Enhedslisten we are a secular party, a deeply secular party that believes that there should be a separation between church and state. That is our important position. Then we say that, when it is not so in Denmark, we must look at how we regulate it, and until we have a majority in favour of a view where we separate church and state, we will, of course, be involved in regulating the laws that every minister throws on the table before us, and then we will decide on how we can do it best. That is why I would also like to say that in this case there are a number of good things in it. I mentioned some of them here, and I could mention a number of things if the time had come.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142004	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142007	Yes, but I just notice that Marxism is a totalitarian religion. And the people who were gripped by Marxism and believed in those executioner regimes such as the Soviet Union and Maokina were religious people who denied reality. And that's just my point of view, which I think is justified in the history books. I just have one question, and that is: where is it that religions and ordinary associations should be treated equally? Where does it stand with regard to human rights? The rapporteur did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142051	I was trying to tell you a little bit about the meeting with a fellow I think, even after hearing him, quite a smart guy, Heiner Bielefeldt, whom the UN has appointed in this very area to say something about where the difference is. And he believes that we are in breach of international rules, which is why I asked the Minister in my speech to investigate whether we are in violation of human rights. I think this is a real and good starting point for continued dialogue. Well, you can't talk about it all. One has to try to say: okay, there is much evidence that this is a violation of human rights. Let us have it checked and ask the Minister if she will investigate this. It must be the right thing to do in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142137	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142142	It's fair enough that Enhedslisten will separate state and church. But to refer to the Swedish experience is to create a myth. - Sir... Christian Juhl make us a little wiser on the Swedish experience of separation of state and church?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142203	Yeah, I can do that. Because there are a number of things to talk about. When I mention the difference between beliefs and lifestyles, it is because, for example, it is. In Sweden, we have succeeded in getting an agreement on the equivalence of religious beliefs based on supernatural powers, and so those of us who believe only in things you can see and measure, but also those you can experience by walking on this globe. And that is where I think Sweden has gone considerably further than we are in Denmark, and I think that is a good example to mention when we are talking about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142243	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142246	This could have been done without separating the state and the church. So, I would like to point out that the former Prime Minister of Sweden, Göran Persson, writes in his memoirs: It was a historical mistake to separate the state and the church. A major destruction of the church has probably not been carried out in modern times. That is how he writes, and the experience of separating the state and church in Sweden is extremely bad. Everything else that is talked about can easily be done without separating the state and the church, so it has been a disastrous decision that has been taken in Sweden. I just want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142325	Yes, Göran Persson thinks so, but I do not think so. I believe that the Swedes have made the right decision, and apparently a majority is still missing in order to maintain that decision. That can then be discussed politically. That is not an objective truth because a former Prime Minister says that it is wrong to have done so. It is only a sign that there are different views on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142350	There was another question. Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142354	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to comment on the big difference in relation to the Swedish Church. It was a pure state church without membership contributions, and then it actually became a church of the people. In Denmark we don't have a state church. Then we can always discuss why the state decides so much. But the state may also decide more than what is in the Constitution. So is the rapporteur aware of the difference between the Swedish and the Danish national churches? I would also like to make a few comments on the privileges which the rapporteur considers a society of outlooks should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142428	First of all, I would like to say that no one in this Chamber would say that there is not a very close connection between the Danish state and the Danish National Church. And we want that removed. As far as the principle is concerned, I only mentioned Sweden because Sweden has taken some steps in the direction that we think is sensible in the separation of state and church. And that is where we believe that it is also sensible to take steps in this direction to equate life-vision organisations and religious organisations. Because there are people who say: Well we don't believe in higher powers, we believe in other things... nature, and what do I know. There are many directions in this context. And so the Swedes have said: yes, that is a sensible equality. That is why we say: why do we not introduce this equality when we are now changing the law in Denmark? This can be done regardless of whether we have a close connection between the state and the church. You can do it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142530	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142533	I do not disagree with the fact that we can, of course, adopt the laws we want to adopt. We could also make a law on privileges, rights and duties for the view of life, even if there are other laws that say something about traditional religions. It doesn't have to be braided together, but they can be very parallel. The next is just a comment. I suppose I am one of those here in the Danish Parliament who has worked most for us to look at a reform of the National Church's organisation, so the church became just as self-governing as the constitution actually asks it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142605	Yes, and we would like to go further, so we are actually saying that there does not have to be anything about it in the constitution, other than that associations are, as associations are. And if someone is associated with what is today called the Danish National Church, it is fine. But it should be treated in the same way, it should not take precedence over other religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142634	Thank you. Now, I know that repetition in politics is not a crime. It may even be quite used. Nevertheless, I will try not to do so because I was listening to the reasons given by the rapporteur of the Left that the Left could support this bill. And even though it has been a while ago, I can really nod to it and will see that it is also the same thing that the Liberal Alliance attaches importance to in this context. This is in relation to the fact that this is a bill which ensures that there is still a wide scope for worship in Denmark, and at the same time makes it clear and understandable what rights and duties apply to the religions other than the church. And that is what was emphasized and emphasised in the rapporteur's speech by the Left, which is why I do not need to repeat it. On the other hand, I would just like to say that, with these reasons, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142732	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142746	Thank you. I have the pleasure of being rapporteur on this, as our usual rapporteur is in Strasbourg today. In short, we support this bill because it still provides a broad framework and there is also some transparency in it. Having said that, I think that was some very, very interesting points made by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. What he raised, I also think, is an important discussion when we talk about this, in other words, the whole thing with the religious outlook and other outlook on life towards each other. In fact, I think that is a very important and interesting debate which I think we should take up. It may be that it is not in relation to this bill, but the question of how we give some rights to life-sight organisations. I find that interesting to take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142839	Sir. Pelle Dragsted has filed a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142851	I regret the delay, but I was stuck on a train, so thank my colleague for taking the rapporteur's speech. My question relates to what the rapporteur has said, namely the question of society of outlooks. For this regulation of religions is, of course, leading to discrimination, if I may say so, against societies of the view of life in relation to religious communities. So, with this bill, we are saying that, as it were, you have to believe in higher powers in order to be regarded as a religion and thus get the rights that go with it, such as. the right to devote more to people and special economic rights. In Norway and Iceland, as well as in many other places, there have been equal societies of outlook for life, so we who believe in humanistic values with the religious religions. We are going to table an amendment along these lines, and is that something that the alternative might come up with to support?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012142943	I can at least say that this is really interesting and I think we should look at it. I am positive about what is here. I cannot say whether we are going to support exactly such an amendment, as it is quite a significant change to the legislative proposal that is before us. So it has to pass a discussion in our group. But I think it is interesting to look at how we can equate vision organisations with religious ones. I think that's an interesting thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143009	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143012	Indeed, and as my colleague may also have mentioned, this is something that the UN special rapporteur on freedom of religion has pointed out, in other words, that with this discrimination we have a problem in Denmark compared to this with conventions and other things. And if you like... Looking at Humanist Society, one can see that they have considerably more members than some recognised religions and, by the way, already have a number of rituals that they offer, but thus not with the state recognition that religious religions have. Is it not time to put an end to this discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143051	In any case, I think it's worth looking at it when we talk about this. Now it is not always the size of an organisation that makes it good or bad or has to give it rights. I don't think it should depend on that. I think it is a matter of principle and I was not aware that there has been that visit from the United Nations on these matters. But I think we should take this into account and, as I said, I will take it back to the group, that is to say the amendment that the Enhedslisten will be tabling so that we can discuss it. But as it is now, we think this is a sensible legislative proposal because it contains a number of good things. Then it may well be that more needs to be done and an amendment has to be made and that it has to be looked at afterwards. I am very open to that. But the most important thing for us is for this to take some important and good steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions and the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143148	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal is about making changes in this area, which I think is very good, namely by giving up the distinction between recognised and approved religions. And with L 19 and some transitional arrangement all are recognized. I think that's a really good idea. Some things have also been changed in the proposal that was submitted for consultation, in other words before the first reading of the draft law, and the demands for democracy and equality of Members have been changed. These have been taken out, and I think that is quite interesting and sensible to do in this context. I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is a sign of health in a society that values other than Danish standards and values also have their justification. I would like to sign for this to the Minister, which is why the draft law reminds me in many ways of what I call minority rights to Denmark. It must be understood that a circle of citizens can come together and agree on a set of values under which they want their children to be educated and to create their own free school. After all, it is a minority right which is an extremely important thing and an important part of a generous society, that is to say it is recognised that you can have values and views other than the majority. Now it is easier to be recognised as a religion because you do not need 150 members, but you can settle for 50 senior members. It is so noted in the bill that there may be more religions who want to show up and want to join in and be recognized. And that's fine and fine. On the other hand, statutory oversight of religions and their organization and economy is introduced. This is new, and therefore there will be an annual financial report that provides insight and publication, and it will also appear if there are donations and from where they are given. Nor is it so strange if we want to have a little order in our society, and this also applies in principle to the free schools, which are subject to the same rule. So there are a great many parallelities to what I call the generous and generous society that offers opportunities for people with values other than the majority to have a role to play as well. One might then ask: Why now reject Humanist Society? And there I would say that I am simply so grounded, I was just saying housekeeperly, that when we talk about religious communities, it is therefore religious society. We can then choose to define it in our different, own ways, but there is a difference between a religious society and a society of outlooks. Otherwise, I think we're messing things up. Therefore, it does not bother me that societies of outlook for life are also accepted, of course, but they can make their own rules and their own rituals in different areas as they wish. After all, we also have differences between marriage and so cohabiting adults who live as a family without entering into marriage. So there are also different kinds of rules for them in a large number of areas sometimes, and that makes me at least as a mother recommend my children to get married because it is safer. Because they never know what happens in their lives, and so they are better off and better equipped by being married than by not being married. Then it got out here. I have one question for the Minister, and it is about the advisory committee on religion. I think it is a good idea to maintain the consultative committee, but I also note that they should make recommendations to the Minister. And then it says: the Church Minister is not bound by the committee's recommendations. No, then the minister is not, because that's what the law says. But I would like to know why. I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143632	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012143655	The Conservative People's Party welcomes the regulation of religions outside the church that it is now being brought together in a legislative package under the Ministry of Churches. An essential part of the freedom to practice religion is that there is clarity, on an equal footing with the people's church, about the rules that apply to the communities of faith. That is also what Article 69 of the Constitution lays down. The law also ensures better supervision of the faith communities outside the church, including the beliefs, rituals and member development of the faith societies. It is important that we tighten up so that the state does not legitimise and support religious purposes which are contrary to Danish rules and values of freedom. It is therefore natural that we supervise and regulate religions. We do this, for example, by ensuring that marriage courts have a basic knowledge of Danish family law, freedom and popular rule. As has been argued by some church figures, the bill should not be seen as a suspicion of religious groups in general. On the contrary, it is a recognition of the special role of communities of faith and freedom in Denmark. That is why we must also ensure that the legislation does not have inappropriate and unintended consequences for Danish free churches and other religions, which, moreover, meet the requirements of the law for religions. The primary purpose of the bill is to create a unified law for religions outside the church. It is therefore surprising that we do not also have a regulation of religions that are not recognised and will not be recognised. In the regulation of recognized religions, we demand that you comply with the parental responsibility law in relation to minors, that you report your financial statements and that you disclose rituals and beliefs. Why should this not apply to unrecognized religions? Most of the mosques we have in Denmark are not recognized, and many of them have deliberately chosen not to be recognized, such as the Grimhøjmosqueen. They are also the ones who have the greatest difficulty in meeting basic Danish values of freedom. I would like to see greater creativity being sought for a solution to the challenge of having a number of extreme religious organisations out of the reach of the law. It cannot be the case that formal consent is required from parents when young people join and leave the church, while young people are free to join extreme mosques without the parents' knowledge. We have had a few examples of this here this year. The hate preachers of extremist Muslim communities encourage violence and women's oppression and anti-democracy. The unrecognized mosques recruit socially vulnerable young people into a life of radicalisation and overreligious attitudes and opinions, including with coercion and social control, and this is not part of religious freedom. We must do something about that, it must be the next step. We are in favour of the draft law as a whole. I am pleased that we are now getting comprehensive legislation in this area, so that there is clarity about the rules. Then we also send a clear signal that all Danish religions must meet the requirements that can be expected of religious organisations. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal and looks forward to its further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144056	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144103	But the same is true of the recognition of life - viewing societies on an equal footing with religious religions. With this bill, we give religious religions special rights, financial rights, authority tasks, and other things that could then be discussed as to whether you should at all. But you do. What about the large part of the Danish population who do not believe in a supernatural god or as the bill says: power over man and the laws of nature? Why should the associations that represent us and our outlook on life not have the same rights and authority, if they so wish, as we know it from other European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144150	That is because today we are dealing with religions on the basis of the Constitution. We are not dealing with lifestyle societies that do not have an unambiguous definition, and that can be anything. What should be borne in mind is that those who are recognised have a lot of privileges, economic privileges, etc., and therefore it is extremely important to stick to the fact that it is religions that we are dealing with in this bill, and not any indefinable lifestyle society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144229	It's not called life-style society, it's called life-view society. Now it does not become more or less definable because it is a society of outlooks. They must, of course, exactly meet all other requirements to which a religion must meet. So the only requirement they should not live up to is to believe in something supernatural. If they said they believed in the spaghetti monster and made some rituals attached to it, they'd be allowed to marry. Can't you see that in a society that wants to be secular, we give certain associations special rights on the basis of faith slash superstition? Is it good in a secular society or in what we want is a secular society?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144312	We are based on the Constitution, and it is religions that we are dealing with here. Otherwise, the questioner will have to change the constitution and extend the concept of faith by means of life - vision societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144328	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144332	But could it not be possible to get a real answer from the rapporteur? We are based on the Constitution, he gives in reply. But what is Mr. Does Khader's attitude nudge that? Would it be a good idea to equate religious communities and societies of outlook? If we were to say that we are using common sense and developing our secular society, what is the rapporteur's personal opinion on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144405	My personal opinion is that we should not equate religions with life-view and lifestyle societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144416	Then we come to the interesting question: why should we not? Is it not a discrimination against the people who live in a society, especially considering that so much of Danish society actually has a view of life and not a religious belief?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144434	There is no clear definition of lifestyle and outlook societies. It could be anything. It may also be a football club at some point, and therefore the starting point is religion based on the Constitution. If you want to define religions according to the Constitution in a different way, you have to change the constitution and include the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144501	The last person I've got on the record is sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144503	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question, just as I am addressing the mist talk that comes from the Enhedslisten, is it not Article 69 of the Constitution, which deals with the closer alignment of the conditions of religions which differ from the people's church? That's what has been the starting point for this legislation, and now Enhedslisten comes and brings all sorts of other things into it, as they always do, because they don't like the church and then have to ride their own party political hoop.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144543	I very much agree with Cousin Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144545	That is not the term we use from the Parliament's platform. That does not give rise to any further questions, so we thank Mr. Naser Khader. And then it's the church minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012144600	Thank you for that and thank you for the exciting debate. L 19 is the result of a very long process which has run over several governments. I think it has been a very good, thorough and exciting discussion that has been under way. There has been a committee which has been called the Professor's Committee, since everyone except one was professors when it was set up, and the last one was also able to become a professor before they were finished. But we have taken care to involve and consult both the population and the religions that it is relevant to involve in this discussion, so I think it has been a very, very fine process. I would also like to say that the whole intention of this legislation is, in fact, to guarantee freedom of religion in this country. That is the intention of it, namely to create a collection which makes clear to all religions outside the church what are rights and obligations. That is the intention of it, and I think it has succeeded very well. I do not want to go into the individual elements. They have been rounded many times along the way, and they have also been rounded up here in the rapporteurs' speeches, but I would just like to respond to some of the questions that have been raised along the way. First there was the Danish People's Party, where Mr. Christian Langballe had been up in the red field, and you should always fear that, but fortunately I was reassured that you might be coming down from the red field again. I would like to say that the reason for this is that there must also be an opportunity to get religiously neutral stamps, because with this legislation there are religions that have been deprived of the right to ministerial bookkeeping that they have today and some of them, among others. the Jewish community, has asked that there is an opportunity, now that you enter the great system, to obtain the certificates without the stamps that we know from the people's church. Everyone who is a member of the church will still get away the stamps that we know today, so this is primarily a welcoming of the religions that have had the right to ministerial bookkeeping so far. But I am sorry if this is the case that we should have had the discussion up earlier, and we are, of course, available for further discussion if that is necessary. Then we have the Radical Left, which asks why the advisory committee, which has to advise on the recognition of religions, is only advisory and not decision-making. This is, in fact, a continuation of existing law. Well, there's no change. When the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Marianne Jelved, was himself a minister, she also had the right to decide in the end, so there is no change in this respect from old to new legislative complex. Then we have the Enhedslisten, who asks: What is actually the reason why the demand which was recommended is omitted that recognised religions should be organised in accordance with the principles of membership democracy and equal treatment, including gender equality? And there I would like to say that the honest answer is that, among other things, it is. It would make it impossible for us to have a recognition of the Catholic religion in Denmark, because it is simply organized in a way that conflicts with these things. So that is why they say that when we have had among other things. This religion for many, many years in Denmark and it has been a recognized religion, then it would be a little strange if we now, with legislation to guarantee freedom of religion, had to say to the Catholic religion: Sorry, you can no longer be recognized. So that is the specific background to it. Then there has been a longer discussion about it with the life-sight communities. I would say that this is a law that deals with religions outside the church, not with societies of outlook. After all, it is always a political party that is free to table resolutions to address some of the other issues. You can do that, but it's not part of this legislative complex, because it's about religions outside the church, and religions aren't life-sight communities. So that is the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145041	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145049	It's just to express my dissatisfaction with this religiously neutral stamp thing. I am still very unhappy about that, but we have to talk about it. We will then also take up our position in relation to the legislative proposal, but I hope that we can at least find some common ground along the way. I would also like to say with regard to religions that when the constitution was laid down, there was a clear definition in section 69 that a religion is a place where one believes in God. It is simply as simple as it is. Then Enhedslisten can come up with their foggy ideas, because they now want to throw a little gravel into the machinery, even though they have not participated in the debate at all, have not bothered to attend meetings and such things, but just before the finals have made some observations that are completely outside the scope of what we are discussing, because there is a difference between religions and beliefs and a religion is quite well defined in the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145151	I think there was a question for the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145155	No, I guess that's more of a comment. So I think that the whole thing with the stamps is based on a misunderstanding. They will continue to be used and, as I said, there are religions which have previously had a right to ministerial bookkeeping. But let us take the discussion. Of course I'm ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145215	The questioner for the second brief remark. That's not what you want. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145222	I mean, just straight: religions must believe in God, but we have religions that have many different ways of worshiping their religions; we also have a religion that does not believe in any god. So whoever's talking in the mist here, I don't know. Can the definition of a religion, and that is what we are discussing, also include life-synthesis societies? That is what we think, for example. in Norway, Iceland and many other places that it can do. It does not appear in Paragraph 69 of the Constitution. It just says they from the church of the people deviant religions. It doesn't say what religions are covering up. And with this bill, we are actually trying to keep up with time on a whole range of other points, including with regard to canonized texts and other things, which also existed at the time as a prerequisite and which we no longer say is a prerequisite. So I think it is a very relevant question why, when we now adopt this regulation of religions, we cannot allow ourselves, who believe in something other than gods, to be included in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145323	I simply disagree vertically with the definition of what they have done in Norway. They did not define the outlook societies as religions. They are defined as outlook societies. In doing so, they have chosen to delegate rights that religions have to life-synthesis societies as well. But I believe, or rather I am quite convinced, that societies of life-synthesis, such as the United States, are not in a position to do so. Humanist Society in Norway will have been greatly discouraged from being defined as a religion. So I just disagree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145352	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145355	Peace then be with it if you do not want it to be included in this proposal, but may I not ask: what is the attitude of the Minister and the Minister's party to ensure that the Danes, and it is quite a lot of us, do not believe in extraterrestrial powers or anything else, and the associations that represent our outlook on life, and which still live up to all the other requirements that religions must meet, as in our neighbouring countries, have some of the same rights to, for example. to marry and also to have the same economic rights as the communities of faith? What is the position of the Minister and the Minister's party on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145435	Now I am speaking as a representative of a party and not as a representative of the government. We have not discussed it in relation to life-sight communities. My personal opinion is that it is going to be very, very wide, and anyone in this country who does not want to be married in a church or in another religion can just go to the town hall and get married. So today, if you belong to a society of vision of life, you also have the opportunity to be married by some people who do not represent some form of religion. But the party has not taken a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145501	Then it's Mrs Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145505	Now I completely forgot how to do it here. You want me to push a button? No, I'm not. In Section 13, para. 1, and this is about the section on the Advisory Committee on Religion, it says: "The Minister of Churches asks the Consultative Committee on Religion to make recommendations on matters relating to the recognition of religions. The Church Minister is not bound by the committee's recommendations. • Now that legislation has been modernised in relation to past times. We have heard that the membership should not be 150 now, but 50, etc. etc. So I just ask: isn't it a little problematic to have a committee that is expert and composed because of their expertise on religions, which has to come up with a position on the recognition of religions, and then the church minister can do what else the church minister wants? I simply do not understand that. I don't understand the logic of this, even if it was true in the old days. It's very out-of-date. It's a different time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145621	I think it is as it should be, because it is an advisory committee. Then we should call it something other than an advisory committee. It is a committee which has an advisory role and then it is the Minister who will decide in the end. This is a parallel to what we know from a number of other areas. I am listening to the point of view, but as I said, this is not a change in relation to the state that has been so far in relation to the recognition of religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145651	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145653	[Sound emission]... had a completely different wording. Then it should have been said that the Consultative Committee on Religion is asked to advise, give advice to the Minister, instead of asking the Consultative Committee on Religion to make a recommendation. And by the way, the Minister is free. But it says that they have to come up with an attitude, and an attitude is usually applied in a completely different way than advice. These are two completely different categories.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145723	However, there are a number of conditions, including in the area of the Church Ministry, where people make recommendations, but where in the end it is actually the minister who makes decisions. We have also had discussions on this in other areas. However, whether the precise wording needs to be clarified a little more, I would like to go back and look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145744	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145748	I mentioned those issues of Member Democracy in the rapporteur's speech, and I am a little surprised at the view that because there is an old religion that does not follow ordinary Member's democratic rights, we must remove, in other words, weaken the demand for democracy for associations. Doesn't it shed a bit in the Minister's own sense of what it should be like? Secondly, does this mean that a religion that could not be approved before the law was passed is now suddenly acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145829	It has actually been the case since 2013 that religions that did not live up to these conditions have not been approved. Then we've been looking into whether it can be done legally, like pulling a line in the sand and saying that from this point on, we're giving these rights. Because then we will not get to, for example. to say goodbye and thanks to the recognition of a relatively large other religion as the Catholics, so that it was said that there is a line in the sand and forward-looking this is the case here. You can't do that. That is simply not legally possible, so it cannot be done. That is why it is here that we are not calling for democracy in the Member States, and there is a question as to whether it is fair or not. I think this is a pragmatic solution to a problem. I do not think we have any reason whatsoever to have to signal to a recognized religious community such as the Catholics that we are now making legislation which means that they can no longer be recognized. So that is a pragmatic approach to it and, of course, one can disagree with it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145937	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012145939	Now I didn't ask much if it's pragmatic, because you can always talk about that. I asked about the consequences. Point 1: This means that the Catholic Church and perhaps other religions have lived in an illegal situation. They have actually broken the law for a period of time, and then you have condoned it, I understand, and now you want to move the law instead of saying that these organisations must now adapt to today's Denmark. Paragraph 2: What about the organisations that could not then be recognised before because of this? They can then be recognized now. It is, after all, a strange idea that we really are going democratically back in development rather than moving forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150022	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150024	I would like to say that the Catholic religion in Denmark has not broken any legislation at all. I simply do not understand how they should have broken the law. They have not broken the law. It's been like this since 2013 I think it's 2013, so don't put me on it; I think it's 2013, and I'm just looking down and asking: isn't it 2013? It's 2013. After all, they have not broken the law, because it is in relation to the recognition of some who have sought this practice. Whether there are any that can be approved now, which has not been approved after having applied for it in the period 2013-2017, I simply cannot say, but we would like to leave an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150105	Thank you to the church minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150118	The debate is open. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150133	Thank you, President. This is not going to be the case here, because basically we are dealing with a minor technical clarification of the legislation, but it is nevertheless a matter of principle. The Secretary of Defense has taken stock of the organizational changes of recent years in the field of Defence and has seen the need to clarify the use of the Military Criminal Code, the Military Discipline Law and the Military Criminal Code in relation to the defence personnel. It must be quite clear that anyone who is a military member of the Ministry of Defence is also covered by the three above-mentioned laws. As you know, the changes in the defense have placed a number of military staff in new agencies that are not under the head of defense. Yet they are under the authority of the defense. The legal situation does not take into account the existing legislation. That is why the Minister is right in saying that it is sensible to make it clear that the military staff of the newly created governments must continue to be regarded as military personnel and thus be subject to the said three laws. The Minister will also make it clear that the laws also cover the military staff of the Department of Defence. That is why the Social Democratic Party can support this proposal, which we consider to be a logical consequence of the restructuring of recent years. It is desirable to ensure full clarity so that the concept of military personnel in service is sufficiently defined, not least for their own sake. Of course, we have also noted that organisations believe that there may not be any need for these changes at all here, but I regard it as a little like that it is timely care, because if something goes wrong, it is quite good to know what to tackle, which handles are there, so we should not have a discussion about it afterwards. So if nothing comes out during the committee procedure that speaks against this, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150331	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150344	Thank you. I have promised a representative of one of the governing parties to say that this will not be a matter for the Danish People's Party to overthrow the government either. We consider this to be technicality and we support the bill, because it is just putting things right. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150405	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150414	Thank you, President. As a result of a major change of organisation on the Ministry of Defence's territory in 2014, the responsibilities of the Military Criminal Code, the Military Discipline Law and the Military Criminal Code were not clarified. We are correcting that today, so that the military staff of the newly established agencies are still considered to be military personnel and are thus subject to the three laws. The draft law will make it clear from the three laws that all military staff of the Department of Defence and military staff of the Department of Defence are covered by the concept of military personnel in charge and thus covered by all three laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150457	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150508	Thank you. I have promised on behalf of my colleague Eva Flyvholm to say that we do not immediately find anything controversial in this amendment and that therefore the Enhedslisten can immediately support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150520	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150523	Thank you. Yes, the pace of production in the Assembly Hall has been set up on today's occasion. I would like to say on the draft law here, L 36, that it seems that changes in organisation in the area of the Ministry of Defence have created a certain grey area as regards the scope of military criminal law, military disciplinary law and military judicial law. This is clarified by the proposal here. The bill ensures that there is no doubt in the future that all military staff in the Department of Defence and military staff in the Department of Defence are also subject to the three laws mentioned. The Liberal Alliance considers it meaningful that a uniform legal basis is now guaranteed for all military staff, and that is why the Liberal Alliance backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150622	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150627	Thank you. I can almost repeat what previous rapporteurs have said, namely that we also see nothing very controversial in this proposal, which is a clarification of the new ways in which we have chosen to organise ourselves, and that is why the alternative can immediately also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150646	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150652	Thank you very much, President. It's just before we set a record in quick processing here. I do not have much to add in relation to the previous rapporteurs. We can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150705	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150719	It is true, as has been said, that this is such a natural proposal following on from the organizational changes that have taken place in the field of defence. However, I think I should just mention the consultation answer that has come from the trade unions, both CS and HKKF, where some fundamental issues are actually raised in relation to this, precisely whether the military penal code is to be used in any case can be used in relation to the functions described here, which are, of course, something other than the traditional military tasks of this kind. And I do not think, if you look at the commentary on the consultation material, that the answer given by the Ministry is what I consider to be extremely satisfactory. I don't think you can say that. That is why I think it might just be necessary for us to clarify this further in the discussion of this proposal. But otherwise, like the others, we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150827	I shall also endeavour to be brief. I would like to thank you for the speeches that have been made and to stress that, because of the organizational changes that have taken place in the setting up of agencies, it is necessary to prepare these rules. And then I think that the questions raised by Holger K. Nielsen are, of course, suitable for discussion during the committee procedure, and we would, of course, like to answer any questions. So thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012150903	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. This bill went very quickly, and that is why we need a crew for the further negotiations in this Chamber. That is why I shall postpone the sitting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012151910	We'll resume the meeting. The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012151940	Thank you for that, President. With the proposal we are dealing with here, parts of the insurance distribution directive are implemented in Danish law. It is consumer protection in the field of insurance that is in focus. It zooms into consumer needs, guarantees equal protection, regardless of who is buying insurance, and introduces equal treatment between the different actors in the insurance sector, by ensuring that everyone has to comply with the same rules. That makes sense in every way. The aim of the Insurance Distribution Directive is to modernise and harmonise the rules of the European Union so that all consumers in the European Union receive the same basic protection when buying insurance. The aim is to implement directives closely, and therefore it also seems meaningful to repeal the existing law on insurance mediation when the insurance distribution directive is implemented and to draw up a completely new law on insurance mediation on the basis of the directive. At the same time, we also think it is good that a number of the provisions of the law on insurance mediation should be maintained in order to ensure the independence of insurance brokers, for example, that they will be subject to special requirements for the organisation of their business and be subject to an absolute commission ban. As this is a brand new law we are dealing with here, of course the proposal comes all the way around. I would therefore just like to dwell on a few points of impact. We think it is very good that there should be an increase in consumer protection in this area, and this is the case, among other things. for the simple reason that more market players will need to be authorised in the future and that they will therefore be subject to supervision by the FSA. This means that in the future, much more players will be subject to the requirement that they comply with the permit requirements. They must meet greater demands on their behaviour in the form of good practice rules, remuneration rules and competence requirements. This is all good for the consumer, but also healthy for competition in this area. As more actors are to be monitored, we will be working on whether there are enough resources now to enable the FSA to carry out the extended task that is now being entrusted to them. It is also proposed that operators should be required to provide standardised documents on the key elements of their insurance products. This should give consumers a better overview and allow them to easily compare insurance. In this way, it will be easier for consumers to make an informed and conscious choice of insurance. That is also positive. It is also worth noting that in future all insurance intermediaries will have to make a demand and demand analysis of their customers so that customers will only be offered products they need. That is, no dog insurance for cat owners or car insurance for passionate cyclists without a car. It must also help consumers to have the same information and protection wherever they buy their insurance and from whom they buy their insurance. It is all good for the consumer, but here we are at a point where we see some challenges in terms of how this can be put into practice at all, and we hope to have it clarified during committee work. The draft law also ensures that rules on the competence of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries can be issued. A similar authorisation is provided for in the Law on Financial Activities for Insurance Companies. This means that employees in the industry provide competent advice and guidance and contribute to a high level of professionalism in the industry. Finally, we welcome the fact that we note that the good measures on the whistleblower scheme, implemented under the auspices of the FSA in the context of banking package VI, are being continued. All in all, this is a sensible proposal, which also seems to be a directive-close proposal. We look forward to the work of the committee, where, as I have said, the Social Democrats will drill into whether the FSA resource is geared to it, when more players are coming in that needs to be monitored. And since we are now dealing with a whole new law, there may of course also be a need to look a little further into the consultation answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152439	As the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, it is, after all, an implementation of parts of the insurance distribution directive and the fact that I am able to pronounce it is half-way an alcohol test. We are, of course, pleased, as the Minister has written in his written comments to the draft law, that this is a modernisation of existing legislation and that it benefits consumers and consumers in general. It can be said that when you use those arguments, you should not be able to problem it or speak it against it, but I will now allow myself to do so. If we end up in a situation where there is too little competition and there are too few insurance providers and there are too few insurance providers and those who do, moreover, are all very large, then the Danish People's Party's optics speak of less and less free competition. Less competition may well affect policy sizes and what people are going to pay for the insurance products they buy. One of our concerns about this bill is that we can look forward to insurance intermediaries and insurance brokers, especially the smaller ones, coming under stronger and also unnecessary control in relation to more and more authorisation requirements that they have to meet. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite convinced that, of course, insurance brokers and insurance intermediaries must also act soundly in a market, and that they must comply with legislation, etc., but we must also be careful not to make unnecessary rigid legislation that makes small companies suffer unnecessary, unfair competition from the large ones who have far larger IT platforms, lawyers, economists and all those people who can help make their daily lives easier in terms of acting towards customers and the political establishment here in Denmark. So we would like the Minister and we in committee to see what we really can do to ensure that there is a future for small businesses in this area in the future too. We do not intend to accept that small businesses are being out-dated by the big ones, because we have made unnecessary demands on detailed regulation and documentation, which we could have avoided on the basis that, in spite of the Minister's postulate, we have a directive on the implementation of this bill. Otherwise, of course, we are in favour of improving consumer protection. It almost goes without saying. Who would speak against it? But we, as politicians, must also try to see 5 or 10 years in the future, and we therefore believe in that, as it says here, that, among other things. will see that there are many players on the market and they must be allowed to be subject to supervision by the FSA. Greater demands will therefore be made on the individual actors, who will in future have to meet a large number of authorisation requirements, and these are the ones I am referring to in my criticism of the draft law. So our support for the bill depends on what answers we get, what guarantees we can get that the insurance brokers and intermediaries who are not part of the big companies have a future in an open, transparent market for sales and insurance intermediation here in Denmark. Finally, I would like to say, and perhaps it is such a small thing, but for us quite a great deal, that if you look at section 1 of the bill you will see that the minister again chooses the euro instead of the crowns. We have therefore voted against the euro in Denmark several times. We like the Danish crown, and that is why we also think that our legislation should be Danish kroner, not EUR 600 and EUR 200, etc., as stated in the comments made in the legislative text. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152842	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152844	Thank you. I think it was interesting that the rapporteur was talking about whether small businesses are being burdened too much. Because it's also something we're preoccupied with in the Enhedslisten. But can the rapporteur give us some examples? Now perhaps I do not know so much about the insurance market and all the hooks in it, so can the rapporteur give some examples of what kind of small businesses are in this area, which the rapporteur is afraid will be overloaded with control and registration?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152913	At any rate, I can confirm that in Denmark we have a number of external sellers who are not subject to large companies, and it is private insurance intermediaries, small companies that are distributing sales to private individuals and to small businesses. I have had meetings with a number of them, and I am not going to stand down here in the Parliamentary Chamber telling you exactly how they have experienced it and how they fear that they will experience it if this bill goes unedited. But so, my criticism comes from specific conversations I have had with some of these company owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012152953	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and proceed to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153003	Insurance is, after all, something that citizens and companies draw in the hopes of not needing them. For insurance must, of course, step in if an accident occurs, an event that affects either people or valuables. It is important that the consumer buys insurance in confidence that the accident should occur, and then you also have the cover you expect, that is, that the product you have paid for also meets expectations; that the consumer has made an informed choice, paid a premium for insurance, and if the accident is out, then the compensation that the consumer had expected when the agreement was concluded will be triggered. After all, we have seen some examples of this not always being the case, which is why it is basically a good idea that, when a new EU insurance distribution directive comes in, it gives rise to a whole new law on insurance mediation. Of course, it can only be the case that, regardless of how you buy insurance as a consumer, you have to be sure to be subject to the same rules, whether you buy insurance directly from an insurance company or you do it from an agent or an insurance company. That is why the draft law we are discussing makes a great deal of sense. It is important that consumers have confidence when insurance is taken out, because, as I said, these are things that are of great importance to you. It can be personal, but it can also be financial. That is why, of course, there must be a high level of consumer confidence in this area. It therefore makes very good sense, in essence, for a wide range of provisions to be updated. It will be ensured that some of the requirements we make in general in the financial field will also apply in the insurance sector and even in a way where they are aligned, so that, for example, for those who sell only supplementary insurance, there are a little less requirements. There is also some difference between buying an additional insurance for a flat screen and then buying an accident insurance or other of much greater importance. I also think it is positive that there is complete clarity about the independence of insurance funds, so that once again, as a consumer, we can be sure that the information we receive is transparent, transparent and that we can make our choice on an informed basis. It is basically a question of ensuring that competition is in order, that the market works and that consumers can act in safety. For it is an area in which it can be very important for the individual. So if your insurance is activated, it's important that you know what you're dealing with. That is basically what the draft law must ensure. I think this is a very good idea, and that is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153314	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153327	As I said, this is a new law which replaces a previous law on rules for insurance intermediaries. As the previous rapporteur also mentioned, this is an important area, not least in relation to consumer protection, because it can often be difficult for consumers to see through the many insurance products offered more and more places. The law must implement an EU directive, an insurance distribution directive. In fact, this is a minimum directive, so Denmark is in its right to make more far-reaching rules in order to give consumers additional protection. But the government has chosen to do what is called a strict directive-by-law implementation itself. Translated into Danish means that consumer protection will not be as extensive as it could have been if it had been desired. This applies, among other things, to: the question of the thresholds, whether they are given in euros or in Danish kroner. The Consumer Council Think highlights among other things. these electronics insurances that we're trying to stuff down our throats when we buy a product from Elgiganten or elsewhere, and they're obviously not included. Perhaps the Minister would like to clarify this in his reply, in other words some of the objections raised by the Consumer Council. I have seen the consultation note, but what are these areas that will be exempt from this, and is it wise to exclude those areas if they are precisely some of the areas where consumers actually need special protection? But basically, as we read the proposal in its entirety, it is an improvement in consumer rights. The Minister is actually allowed to comment on this. Of course, we would have liked to see the fear of over-implementing and expanding consumer protection not so much, but as long as it is a step in the right direction, one can always rely on Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153540	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153548	Thank you. With the bill, the Government and the Folketing implement parts of the Insurance Distribution Directive. This means abolishing the legal distinction between the provider and the intermediary of insurance. This means that more companies will be subject to control by the FSA. The proposal also means that, in the future, the management and individual responsible employees of companies providing insurance mediation will be required to be properly and fit. At the same time, it bans forms of remuneration in which employees are rewarded for recommending products that do not benefit the consumer. It can be noted that relatively strict requirements are imposed on providers and intermediaries of insurance with the bill. Fortunately, however, there are relatively reasonable limits to be set, in order to target the requirements of the providers of services which have a slightly greater impact on the economy of consumers. We also note that the assessment is that this bill does not impose an economic burden on business. There is no great financial burden on it, and on that basis we can support the draft law overall, although, it may be said, it is a very high degree of very, very complicated regulation, and we have plenty of that in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153727	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153732	I will be brief, because we actually agree that this looks very sensible. I would actually like to ask the Minister if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur had not asked about that. In fact, I think it was asked about how it might be that you want to implement it so relatively tight or, what should you say, at least do not want to overimplement it. It is for the protection of consumers, and yes, it may be complicated, but I would really like to say why it is important that it should not become something that could become even more for the safety and happiness of consumers. It may be that it is just an auto-answer from me because we always go in and look at what the Consumer Council Think writes and always think that there is probably something about it. But otherwise it'll look reasonable. That's all I have for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153830	Thank you, sir. René Gade. And we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153833	Today we are dealing with L 8, which is a partial implementation of the insurance distribution directive, which includes: aims to increase consumer protection and also to ensure that more players in the insurance sector are subject to supervision by the FSA. On the radical side, we think it is good to have increased consumer protection and to have a directive-by-law implementation at this point. In the consultations there has been a little about the date of entry into force, and we would like to take part in discussing this if that is something that the Minister considers to be a relevant objection. But we can support L 8.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153916	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012153928	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to implement parts of the insurance distribution directive and the directive aims to protect the consumer, so that, wherever you buy your insurance, whether you buy it directly from an insurance company or from an agent or from another intermediary, you are subject to the same protection. Of course, the Conservative People's Party can back the bill. I would like to highlight a few elements of the draft law. There is equality between the different players in the insurance market, which ensures that everyone is subject to the same rules, while at the same time making increased demands on the competence of the intermediary. It is good for free competition and it is good for the consumer. In addition, some requirements are laid down for the remuneration of the intermediary, which means, for example, that one must: We must not encourage the choice of a product if it is not the best thing for the customer, and it is, of course, a very important protection for the consumer. In addition, I think it is important that we have chosen to implement this as closely as possible. Maybe that's one of them. That is why it has been implemented with an indication in euro and not in crowns, I do not know. However, it is certainly important, in relation to the competitiveness of companies, even in relation to other EU countries, to stay very close to the directive also for the sake of not imposing too many burdens on companies. Then it is proposed to continue the rules that apply to financial companies in relation to good practice and whistleblower arrangements, where employees and members of boards can anonymously report offences of the law committed by companies. I also think this is a very important step in creating confidence and credibility for the industry, and it may also be expected to have a preventive effect. So in those words I think I will just finish by saying that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154121	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. We move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154125	Thank you. My good colleagues have, of course, examined this draft law, which is the implementation of a directive. That is very good, and I can only say that we in the SF support it too. We think it is a step in the right direction. We have some questions which we would like to put to the Minister in committee on whether we can go further. Because there are a lot of areas that need to be given extra attention. So we have a number of questions we would like to ask in committee. I can already say that this is, of course, a step forward and that we support the proposal, but that we might have some suggestions on how it can be even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154224	Thank you for your comments and for the generally positive reception of the draft law. After all, we are introducing a new law on insurance mediation, and the law transposes parts of the insurance distribution directive into Danish law. The aim of the directive is to create a level playing field between all the different players who can distribute insurance. This is done by ensuring that all aspects of the distribution of insurance must comply with the same rules, thereby ensuring the same protection for consumers. At the same time, the directive sets a high level of consumer protection and requires companies to take into account the interests and needs of customers from the time they develop new insurance products. With the bill, we will ensure uniform protection for Danish consumers regardless of whether they buy their insurance from an insurance company, from an agent or from another insurance company. The draft law will improve consumer protection by allowing or registering several market players and then being subject to supervision by the FSA. And that is where there is a small discrepancy with the Consumer Council, which I hear one of the rapporteurs listens to a great deal. The Consumer Council is not in general opposed to the proposal, but states that they would like the area to be extended, in other words to have more supervision of ancillary insurance intermediaries. It is our view that we stick to the directive. Of course, we will keep monitoring, including small businesses, and from the FSA you can obtain information for the purposes of supervision and then go on inspection if it is. So that is where there is a small niche difference between the Consumer Council and our proposal now here. But generally speaking, this proposal is consumer protection. The proposal also lays down requirements for the actors, which means that we continue requirements for suitability and liability for what we also call "fit & property" to the managers of the covered insurance intermediaries. The requirements must strengthen the management of companies and, together with the other regulation of these companies, contribute to ensuring sound and efficient operation. As a new feature, it is proposed that individual employees of so-called ancillary insurance intermediaries should be subject to honesty requirements. It is companies which distribute insurance as a supplement to their main performance, e.g. white goods companies selling insurance to their refrigerators etc. The requirement shall ensure that persons have a good reputation when they have overall responsibility for the distribution of ancillary insurance. The proposal also contains new rules on the remuneration of ancillary insurance intermediaries. Specifically, no remuneration may be paid in a way that encourages the person selling an insurance product to recommend to the customer a product that is not the best for the customer. In addition, greater demands will be made on the behaviour of distributors in the form of rules of good practice and requirements for specific competences. This will be done by issuing notices on this subject, which are based on the draft law. It is also a matter of the insurance intermediaries mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We do not want to make any further demands on them, like the Consumer Council, but we insist on the demands that the directive must make. And the competence requirements will be the same for the small brokers as for the big brokers, and it is not the case that you have to attend courses and all sorts of other things, but you have to be able to pass the same tests. The point of the Danish People's Party is of course relevant to ensuring that there is still a wide variation of brokers. But the requirements, the requirements of competence, must be the same, whether you are a small broker or a big broker. It just shouldn't be the case that you keep sanding up in different courses and so on. These very permits are not given in the bill itself, but are subsequently given in a notice which, of course, comes into consultation, i.e.. It is the competence requirements that will be consulted, including in this regard. No, the competence requirements are in the legislative proposal itself, but the authorisations must also be discussed in this respect. Competence requirements must help to support a high level of professionalism in the sector, and competence requirements will help to increase customer confidence in the competence of individual employees to provide advice and guidance. The rules ensure this, among other things. also that consumers will have a better overview and an opportunity to compare non-life insurance products. This is done by requiring the provision of a standardised document containing the essential characteristics of the individual insurance. In addition, all insurance distributors must comply with new rules to ensure that customers are offered only products suitable for the individual. In order to maintain the status of insurance brokers on the market as independent intermediaries, the draft law contains a chapter on additional requirements for independent insurance intermediaries which essentially continue to apply the rules in force. The rules must include: ensure that independent insurance intermediaries are solely responsible for the interests of customers. In those words, I look forward to the discussion of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154758	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154801	I think I asked the Minister whether there is anything in this law that weakens consumer protection in relation to current rules, and I would actually like to expand the question slightly and ask whether, in the context of the Order on Good Practice for Insurance Distributors, which will then follow the bill, there will be a weakening of consumer protection in relation to applicable rules and regulations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154827	In other words, the whole intention of the directive, which we then implement, is to ensure better consumer protection. So, in my best opinion, there is no relaxation of consumer protection. If there are any corners in it and it is also in relation to what the questioner mentions, then I would very much like to look at it. With the way we implement it, it is to ensure better consumer protection across the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154853	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154854	Then there is the answer that, to the extent that the directive goes less far than the current rules, will the current rules be adhered to when it comes to making this regulation, even if they go further than the directive in relation to consumer protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154916	In other words, we have chosen to implement the directive very closely, because on the one hand we want to ensure the best possible consumer protection and, on the other hand, of course we want to ensure that it is still possible to do business in Denmark, including for small brokers. If there are any nuances in that, we must take a look at it during the committee procedure to see if there is any discord in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154942	Thank you to the Minister for Business. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012154956	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012155010	Thank you. I am giving this rapporteur's speech on behalf of Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, who can't be here today. The bill is primarily about the Central Business Register, known as the CVR, but in addition there are changes to a number of other important laws, including: amends the proposal to the legal sloppy work carried out by the Minister in the catering sector just before the summer break. I'll take the individual subjects one by one. About the Central Business Register: the main aim of the proposal is to strike a better balance between public disclosure of persons registered in the CVR and the possibility for such persons to avoid publication of their private address. The problem that the proposal has to solve is that a group of people want address protection because they are employed in industries where they work with high values, or industries where they work with, for example. mentally ill. They don't have that right to address protection today. We understand, of course, that there may be a need to ensure that you cannot be sought out with non-friendly intentions at your home address. In practical terms, this should be done by enabling individuals to obtain address protection in the CVR by registering name and address protection in the cpr register. There are no conditions for obtaining address protection in CPR. According to the proposal, protection will apply in the CVR for the same period as in the CPR, i.e. for one year at a time. It is important for the Social Democratic Party that persons, as stated in the bill, with protected addresses, will continue to be registered in the CVR so that public authorities can continue to access the information. Indeed, it is important that we can ensure the security of our citizens by obtaining address protection, but at the same time ensure that public authorities are not prevented in their legal controls, for example. carry out the investigation into money laundering, tax fraud and other subversive activities. The only appeal that we have in the Social Democratic Party regarding the changes to the CVR is that we should have the assurance that foreign persons in the CVR who receive address protection will not be outside the reach of the Danish authorities in the investigation of money laundering, tax fraud, etc. The proposal amends the rules on advertising protection which otherwise aim to facilitate the collection and distribution of data from the CVR on advertising protected devices, while not reducing the value of advertising protection. With the proposal, the Danish Business Authority will be empowered to obtain information from the eAccess Register on the number of employees indicated in precise figures and on the transmission of this information to all users of the CVR. The Minister will do so because what is known as the data collectors points to an increasing interest in more precise information on the number of employees in companies for the purposes of credit rating situations, for sales purposes and for statistical purposes. In the committee's work, we would like to know who these data controllers really are. The statutory leave is proposed to be amended so that members of the Board of Directors, who are also part of the Management Committee, cannot be a member of the Audit Committee. It is a good thing that we have cleaned up the cap mix so that we ensure that the important social task of the review is done in an independent way, so as to ensure that the review is more reliable. About the Act on Restaurants: In the spring, the government, supported by a few parties in this Chamber, decided that young people under 18 years of age could be sent to the bar floor to serve strong alcoholic beverages to adults. In the Social Democratic Party, we were and are opposed to young people under the age of 18 being exposed to a working environment in which, at worst, adults drink from their senses and collection and harass very young people. Although the government had its majority in place in the spring, the Minister did a piece of lawlessness which over the summer has been a nuisance for waiters in the catering industry. Of course, we understand that this needs to be corrected, but we do not understand why the amendment of the law should allow young people under the age of 18, who are children or grandchildren of the host, to work with all tasks in restaurants where strong drinks are served until 8 a.m. 24:00. We will have clarity on this during the committee procedure. In conclusion, we shall be asking a number of questions during the committee's deliberations, such as: to determine whether the Minister with the bill ensures that changes to the cvr law will not prevent the public authorities from investigating money laundering and tax fraud. Our final position on the legislative proposal will depend on the information we receive on the impact of the proposal. The Social Democratic Party therefore awaits the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012155535	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012155545	The Government has chosen to submit a bill as a follow-up and an update on the rules and conditions of the Central Business Register, CVR. In the Danish People's Party, we are of course also of the opinion that it is quite appropriate that we take advantage of the register opportunities we have, among other things. to combat, investigate and prevent financial crime. This bill, among other things, lays down. up to being able to enter into agreements with CVR with tax authorities via the Danish Business Administration to obtain information from the income register on the number of employees, etc. This is one of the places where one can well wonder why there is not already universal compulsory access to precisely these challenges. So the Danish People's Party is basically in favour of the changes that are being put into play in this bill. One place where we may find it a little interesting to problematize it is that in some places you can see that you also use the CVR register to re-sell some information to companies in connection with their work. There, too, you have to be on a safe basis as to whether it is the right and correct information that goes on. At any rate, I have received some inquiries from people who say that if there is incorrect information in the CVR, yes, they will also go further into the system when others go in and get the information. So I'd like to see now that we're looking at it anyway... that you at least have a little look at whether there are any options to also ensure that there will be a lesser degree of risk of error in all the alerts and the registrations that are in the CVR. Then there are some other matters on which I have also asked the Minister some questions. Perhaps it is a bit tricky when it comes to the fact that it is political parties that feel molested, but some of our local associations have felt offended. For example: If you are chairman of the Danish People's Party in Brøndby, yes, then your address and all sorts of other information must also appear in the CVR. The answer I have received from the Minister is that you can just choose someone else from the board to draw the party, and then the chairman can avoid having his name in the CVR. That, of course, is also true. We're also going to be pragmatists. We also need to find logical, quick solutions, but it may seem a little bit, so what are the reasons for having political local associations in the CVR register at all? This is one of the examples that can be discussed. Other examples are voluntary associations and socio-economic enterprises which are socially anchored, etc. and which operate on a voluntary basis. Here, too, some people think that there is an over-registration. But that is, I would also like to say, not the big problem. It is not, but I still think it is important that we get it said now, here, where we have the discussion of this bill. As I said, we are fundamentally in favour of this draft law. Perhaps I have a few more questions than those I have asked about the CVR, but I will then ask them in connection with the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012155918	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. No one has asked for brief comments, so we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012155930	A few months ago I received an email from a self-employed person who had been harassed by a citizen and was pleased that he had his address protected in the CPR register. But while he was self-employed, he was a little concerned about whether the person who subjected him to harassment could now be so insightful that he looked up the same person in the CVR register because his address was unprotected. I could understand why he was worried about that. Because when you want to have your address protected, there is little value in it if you can only find in another register the very same information that you have asked for protection, for example because you are subjected to harassment. I am therefore very pleased with the draft law put forward by the Minister for Industry, in other words, that if you have been protected as a private person, you will also now have the opportunity to have the same protection in the CVR register. This does not mean that public authorities do not know where people live. Of course, they will still have access to that. And if, as a citizen or a company, you have a legal interest in getting the address of a company owner, you will also be able to continue to obtain the address. However, we are avoiding these harassment cases. I do not know the number of cases of which there have probably been some, and it can be said that when we allow citizens to have an address protection, it should of course also be effective and not just something that can be bypassed by searching another register. It makes really good sense. I also think it is a quite reasonable little relief that, if you buy addresses in the register, you must, of course, comply with the bans that apply to advertising-protected companies and that, when you get the addresses, you must, of course, be informed that you have to comply with that legislation. So far, it has been the case that a declaration of compliance with the law had to be submitted. It makes very good sense to clean up unnecessary bureaucracy and paperwork, and this is actually a very good little example of this. Then there are some other adjustments to e.g. the statutory auditor's law to ensure that the rules are brought into line with EU law. The Social Democrats' rapporteur explained this in great detail, so I will not repeat it. And then there are a few adjustments on top of the amendment to the catering law that we adopted earlier this year, in which a provision has been made that the City of Copenhagen may be exempted from the appointment and remuneration of an independent lawyer or lawyer to the municipality's grant board, plus what the Social Democratic rapporteur has said, namely the provision that servants should not experience that they do not have the same opportunities to work as they have been in the past. It was not a problem that was raised during the legislative process of the Act on Restaurants, but it came after that, and it is of course a good thing that we are getting it right so that they are not limited in their training. This must, of course, be possible as it has been up to now. All in all, these are sensible changes, and, as I have said, it is always nice when an approach by a citizen with a specific problem is followed up by the fact that we are now having legislation that ensures that the person concerned does not have to live in concern that the address protection that he or she has in one register is not worth much, because the address is fully available in other registers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160341	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160351	When I speak with regard to the rapporteur of the Left, it is because I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left also feels he has a share in this and thinks it is a very good proposal. The rapporteur emphasizes here that it must be unbureaucratic and it must be easier and so on. I would just like to point out that, of course, I fully understand this in relation to those who have been seriously harassed and so need address protection. But the bill here estimates that at least 20,000 people with address protection in the CPR register will transfer it to the CVR register. At the same time, in the area of the same minister, we have introduced a wide range of safeguards against money laundering, terrorist financing and so on. under Know your customer principle, i.e. know your customer. This means that a large number of companies, etc. In the business world, they can make contact with the CVR, but do they have to do so in 20,000 or more cases, so that they can live up to the rules that a unanimous Parliament has imposed on the business community and which, of course, we from the SF also support, or how do you get around it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160512	As I also said, in relation to the information that the authorities need, there is no change. Of course, we must be sure that there is the information that is needed. And I believe that most cases cannot of course be rejected - which have a professional relationship with, for example, a financial institution, have no interest in the fact that there should be address protection against their financial institution. But it is fundamental to ensure that you do not end up in a harassment situation, so that the protection you obtain in one register should also be able to transfer to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160545	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160548	I understand that too, and we do not mind from the SF looking at the specific cases where there is harassment, where there are really some who are in a vulnerable position. But there is also a presumption that the Personal Data Directive, etc. will be even more who get address protection. The rapporteur replied with the role of the authorities, but then I have to ask the other question again: do the large parts of the business community, which have to comply with your customer rules, have to turn to the CVR register every single time? This must be the only way they can live up to the rules themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160632	In relation to knowing his customer, I would say that it is done in the direct contact of a trader to the customer, even if it is another business customer. I do not think it is most people who enter into a business relationship with a company to which they do not have an address. So I would say that it seems a little like a thought example, but of course that is something that we must basically pay attention to, because we have no interest in anyone hiding from better knowledge in order to be able to live in the hidden place that goes without saying. If I remember the details of the legislative proposal, it is of course also something we need to follow up on, because it is a question of avoiding harassment, and we need to be sure that it does not have unintended consequences, which is why it is, of course, something that we must continually follow up on. I think this makes a great deal of sense, and I do not see that, because you have to know your customer, it only happens through the CVR register, because it should have been handled in other ways. But we must of course be sure that these customer knowledge procedures are respected so that we do not prevent them, but it is also my clear view that we are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160736	Then I can say thank you to the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker as rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012160746	Thank you. This proposal is one of these kinds of pile proposals, where there are a lot of different things that really have little to do with each other, but which are piled together in one bill. So let's try to look at the most important elements one at a time. On the subject of the publication of private addresses in the CVR register, I would say that I think we have a really big dilemma. It is today, as has been said, that even if you have address protection in the CPR register, for example. When you have a violent ex-husband, you do not have the same protection in the CVR register if you are also a business owner. That is why the government is proposing that the address protection should also apply to the CVR register. There are good arguments for this, but, on the other hand, it must be said that there are some risk factors in this and some consequences which may not be so lucky. It can be harder for example. the creditors, and this is pointed out by some in the answers to the hearings, to recover debts, for example. I think there are some who write Peter Hansen, and there are many who are called in Denmark, and if you don't know the address, you don't know where to show up to get your money either. I am also a little concerned about what the SF's rapporteur said about how we have, in this way, had a development in which we have tried to get more knowledge about corporate owners, real owners, in terms of combating money laundering and tax fraud. It might also be pointed out that this too, if the scale becomes large, can weaken, for example. research opportunities. Now, for example, we have. researchers in Denmark who have looked at the so-called power elite, i.e. who actually owns the companies in Denmark, where they live, what gender they have, what background they have. I think that is important research, but it can be difficult if you do not have access to that information. This also applies to journalists digging in companies. We have had cases of VAT fraud in candy stores and elsewhere. As far as I remember, it was also something that was excavated by critical journalists, but could such a story be made if these fuckers had chosen to be address protected so that they could not have made the connections that they had been able to make between different companies? I myself sometimes use the CVR register, because it is very interesting sometimes to look at a company and see how it is connected with others, whether there are people who go again in one place and have address together, and thus one can deduce that it is probably a married couple. I understand the intention, but I think there are some problems in this as well. The question is whether one could not find a solution in which one might somehow have something in contrast to the CVR register, where one can simply ask for address protection, i.e. whether in some way, when it comes to the CVR register, one should have some kind of evidence in the form of something that I do not really know how to set up. In any case, I believe that there is a risk that some will avoid public scrutiny. It is not a question of avoiding violent ex-husbands or unpleasant customers who are after them, but of avoiding public scrutiny, and I think that is not so good. Therefore, we are at least quite critical of this by shortening the period recorded in the CVR register down to 3 years instead of 10 years. Compared to e.g. research is not very good, and I do not see why it should be. In relation to advertising protection, it is not quite clear to me whether the proposed amendments will improve protection against unsolicited advertising or whether they will weaken them. If it is the case that they want to weaken them, at least that is something we will turn our backs on. Then there is the demand for information on the number of employees. Here the government will go the opposite way and make it easier for private companies, interest groups and others. access to information on the number of employees. That's what we think in the Enhedslisten. Then there's a change to the accountant's law. It may seem a little strange at first, in that we have looked at the same thing very recently, as far as I remember. So I would really like to hear how the changes that the Minister might be able to address are related to the changes that were made quite recently and what these new rules mean for supervision. Then there is the matter of the catering law, and I have to say there, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, that a really stupid decision was taken this summer to leave young people, children in environments that are dangerous. These were clear reports from all organisations that have knowledge in the field, which warned against it, but now it will be extended to include an increased circle of people who will be exposed to Nyhavn at Nyhavn. 24 in the evening with the consequences it may have. So to the extent that it remains part of the legislation, we will certainly vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161330	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, we provide for address protection of private addresses in the CVR, as today, in the CVR, private addresses are published for directors, board members, etc. I think it is obvious that there can be entirely legitimate reasons why you want your address not to be publicly available. That is why it is quite reasonable to have this opportunity in the CVR. Syncing with the CPR register is a sensible solution, so that people who have wanted address protection here will also get it in the CPR register. Then, as others have also mentioned, the proposal contains some changes in relation to the protection of advertising in the CVR, the auditor's law and also the catering law, in which we rectify something that was not illegal, as some have called it, but an unintended error that we made in the revision of the catering law at the time. So all in all, this is a bill that we can support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161444	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161453	Thank you. I have allowed myself in this Assembly to wish that every time there is such a pile of proposals with a wide variety of laws, unless it is clear to me what it means and what we shall vote in the Alternative, I will ask for a technical review. After all, the technical review is something that we can get here in the Folketing if we think that there are elements in a legislative proposal where there might well be a need for a joint analysis, not only for the parties but also for the individual rapporteur, so we are talking on the same basis and where the political differences may have been cleared. Fortunately, here in the Chamber we often stand and talk on the basis of some political foundations. In the technical reviews we sit and have a factual review, where we have to understand the facts, and then we can go out and discuss politically. So I would like to ask that in this area too, and there I would like to make a call. I have not studied it in depth, but I do not believe that we are livestreaming technical reviews. There may be all kinds of good reasons for this, but in some areas it might be even more interesting to hear what was actually said in such a technical review of such a complicated legislative proposal as this. It is not necessarily complicated into the individual elements, but there are many things at stake, and if you hear that there are individual parties voting against one and the other in such a proposal, then it can be just as individual rapporteurs have said, one element out of many. That understanding could be very interesting, so I would like to ask for a technical review. In general, I am very much in favour of the vast majority of elements of the proposal, but will not take a unified position yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161629	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161641	Thank you very much. I believe that anyone who has tried to have a need to have his address protected in the CPR register for various reasons will understand that, at the same time, his address is free in the CVR register, if you own a company, is not very appropriate. On the other hand, I also think that Enhedslisten raises a number of concerns about how to strike the right balance in terms of being able to connect individuals with the companies they have registered in the CVR register. I know that it is also very important for the Minister to strike the right balance. I think that this is also reflected in the hearings, but it is worthwhile in the committee work to have a discussion on whether you have hit quite correctly and, in particular, that authorities have access, of course. I can say as someone who has followed the quota fraud case very, very much that I think there were addresses called Anders Duck Vej and other exciting things. It does not have to be what determines whether the authorities get money laundering and VAT carousels. I believe that if you first start such a large investigation work, you can, of course, also get companies connected with individuals. I think that the question that Pelle Dragsted raised about such a thing as a journalist who would like to excavate something that we can see in 'Constant', where you are knocking on people's doors and finding them around, and that you may as a journalist be able to ask for access or otherwise be allowed to get a similar information, perhaps a way to ensure that the press's critical work towards business owners can continue. These are questions of this kind that we will be asking during the committee's work, but in general we are very positive that we should of course be able to have our address protected in the CVR register as well. Then there are some changes in the catering law that we are not 100% convinced are sensible. We will also be asking about this during the committee's work. In general terms, however, we are generally positive and then have some specific questions we would like to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161851	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012161910	Thank you. As some of my colleagues have also mentioned, the SF also sees some dilemmas in what the bill had to deal with, namely that it may seem absurd that if you are a company owner and of course also a private person and you are or have been threatened with your life or have experienced very serious harassment of one kind or another, you have an address protection in the CPR register, but not in the CVR register. So that part of it I can well understand. However, as has also been pointed out in the hearings, there are probably a lot of people who will take advantage of this address protection and transfer from CPR to CVR. It is estimated to be at least 20,000, and that number can be much higher as time goes by. There are a lot of rules and laws that we have made in this Parliament together... virtually everyone has voted for them... just to get money laundering done or at least to fight it. There is the law on know your customer procedure and the law on who the real owners of companies are, and from SF's side, for example. It is precisely the register of the real owners that we have been working for for many years. We are very pleased that we have it and that the government also supports it, but when it comes to this bill, we are left with a lot of questions, i.e. what you do in those cases where it is necessary to be able to interconnect, for example. Jens Hansen with an address in order to have a more unique knowledge of who that person is, and also in relation to debt collection and other things. There I could hear from the Left rapporteur that the Left does not see this as a problem with regard to access by the authorities. However, there are also a lot of private companies that have to comply with these rules. We have asked them for this ourselves and, as far as I understand, have to make active contact with the CVR every time, and then you can ask yourself whether the protection that should be is not being watered down, while at the same time it actually puts a lot of work on all the institutions and companies that we have asked to cooperate with us in order precisely to avoid tax evasion, tax evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing, etc. etc. So we are actually in favour of seeing whether we can achieve what is the purpose of the law, that is to say to give protection to those who so much need it, without it being an open door to anyone who wants anonymity for good as well as for less good reasons. In other words, if we can correct this in order to protect those who are entitled to it, then we would like to take a very positive approach to the work of the committee. But we see some major risks, as described right now. I am not going to say anything about the amendment of the auditor's law, but just briefly about the catering law, where we have a bit of a double feeling about it: because the SF did not vote in favour of the bill originally. We were very opposed to it. We think it is to put children and young people in a totally unfair situation where they must serve alcohol and be with potentially very drunk people, and that part of it is that because you have a family relationship, you must also be able to serve strong alcoholic drinks until 8 a.m. 24, therefore, we are not in favour. On the other hand, when it comes to the part about being an apprentice, etc., we can see that it hits in. So it's kind of double, and we just have to go into it a little more before we can know if we can support it. It is also such a rather special situation to have to support part of a legislative proposal which actually extends the access we originally opposed. I understand if it sounds confusing. We are also not quite sure how to stand here because there are both for and against. But these are the words from here, and I hope that the Minister will accept the extensive hand that the spirit of the legislative proposal really does want to try to accommodate, but that we see some major risks that it is designed right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012162407	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012162414	Thank you. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. to ensure that people who participate in a company can obtain the same address protection in the CVR as you can in the CPR register, and this is, of course, a bill that the Conservative People's Party supports. Of course, if you participate in a company, whether as a board member, director, founder or the like, you can obtain address protection. There may be a great many personal reasons why you as a citizen want address protection, and we think it makes very good sense for the rules to be treated equally between CVR and CPR. If you have address protection in the CPR register, there is some reason why you have chosen to have it, and it should not be the case that you have to think twice about it, for example. will have to run for board work in the local association because it will not be possible to protect its address. There may be harassment on the part of an ex-partner or many other personal reasons that make you e.g. Don't dare run for board work that co-founds a company or something because of this address protection problem. Then, of course, there must also be the possibility for the authorities to collect and recover any arrears, and I understand from the draft law that it is the case that all authorities are given the opportunity to access information through the Danish Business Authority. Moreover, there will also be the possibility for private creditors or the like, against proof of claims, to be given the address, and thus I really think that a quite good balance has been struck between the need to protect the participants in the undertakings, the members of the associations or whoever it is, and then any creditors or others who need to come into contact with them. They may be authorities or other participants of undertakings. Then there are a number of other legislative proposals that the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and I will not repeat them here, but just say that we naturally support the legislative proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012162611	Thank you. Then the next speaker is the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012162622	Thank you. And thank you for the comments on the bill amending the cvr law and various other laws. I would like to begin by stating that, as a starting point, we will always be advocates of openness about the ownership and management relationships of Danish companies. Transparency is important for the sake of the confidence of the outside world in our companies, and it contributes to legal certainty for business partners and creditors. There are, however, cases in which the concern of private individuals to protect their information must prevail. In the government, we think it is appropriate to adjust the rules for the publication of names and private addresses in the CVR, so that we take more account of the wishes of private individuals to protect their information. I think that the proposal has struck a very good balance between the need for transparency on the one hand and the need to protect private information on the other. As it is today, a number of information about companies is published in the Central Business Register, CVR. In addition to information about the industry, address and number of employees, you can also find information about names and private addresses for e.g. Directors, board members and owners. It is the Government's view that there may be entirely legitimate reasons why you do not want your private address published in the CVR. It can, for example, be done. be persons who, as part of their profession, are in contact with mentally ill or criminals. It may also be people who want address protection for private reasons, for example for the sake of violent ex-partners etc. We therefore suggest that you can have address protection in CVR if you register address protection via citizen.dk in the Central Personal Register. We also propose that private addresses be updated and published for up to three years after the person was last associated with a company's CVR. Today, the address is updated for 10 years, but published forever. We do so because we do not believe that the continuous updating of people's addresses for 10 years after they have closed their business is proportionate to the purpose of making personal data available to creditors, for example. In the same way, we propose that in future names are only updated in the CVR for 3 years compared to 10 years today. However, name details will continue to appear in the CVR forever, even if their update has stopped. The Danish Business Authority will continue to register address information in the Danish Agency's IT systems, regardless of whether the information is protected and therefore not published. Similarly, public authorities will continue to have access to name and address information, whether published or not, in contact with the Danish Business Authority. Private persons wishing to obtain a protected address must in future contact a municipality. He or she must be able to prove that he or she has a due claim for the person or another legal interest in obtaining the address. I propose that in a few years' time we look at the impact of the proposed rules, including the extent of protected addresses. Here it would be natural to consider the extent to which the changes have led to an increase in the number of requests to municipalities for the provision of protected addresses. In addition, this proposal proposes simplifying the rules on the protection of advertising of companies. This means, among other things, that persons who collect data on advertising protected companies via the CVR will not have to fill in a written declaration in future that they will respect the company's desire not to be contacted. We also propose that, in future, the ban on recourse to advertising-protected companies only covers direct marketing, where it now covers all requests. We do so because the rules in force seem unintended, as they prevent a potential partner or customer from making legal representations to a protected company. It is important to stress that the changes do not weaken the protection of advertising by companies. The bill also contains a few minor amendments to the auditor's law and to the catering law. Then the Socialist rapporteur mentioned why neither children nor grandchildren are involved in this. There is our assessment that the young person will be protected more when the person responsible for ensuring safe working conditions is a family member. It is therefore quite crucial to say that it is not a general weakening of it; it is just a question of saying that there are, of course, other conditions, if it is a family member, it is about it will be very natural. Sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten also asks why we bring something about the Audit Committee. In other words, it is a requirement under EU rules that directors, who are also part of the company's management board, should not be a member of the audit committee. This requirement has been in force since the statutory auditor's act in 2018, but fell by mistake in relation to the legal amendment in 2016. Therefore, the proposal here is to bring the provision into line with EU rules and the rules previously in force in the auditor's law. The alternative rapporteur, René Gade, is in principle opposed to these major package proposals. So was I when I was in opposition. Now there are some things that need to be resolved, but I think it is appropriate, and I respect, of course, that you want to have a technical review of it. We would very much like to invite this to the Department of Business so that we can sort of address the individual themes one by one. We would very much like to invite both Mr. René Gade and others to the Department of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163219	I have four comments to make straight away, and the first one is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163226	I've been playing with the résumé, just trying to figure out what's in this. If, for example, you're gonna have to... searching for Mr. Brian Arthur Mikkelsen, of course, shows up a name and an address, and then you can actually go in and ask which companies are at that address, and then you can see the number of companies registered at that address. Well, now I know that Mr. Knox... Brian Arthur Mikkelsen has nothing to hide or has any problems at all, but if you had, if you were a crook, a villain, and you didn't want that, for example. critical journalists should be able to do this kind of search on someone where they went in and saw that at this address there were actually 50 different companies or, for that matter, business partners and others, because you could see that it didn't look so clever that there were 50 companies at this address. I guess the reporters would be prevented from doing this. Is it not a very important tool that we take from critical business journalism, or is it I who misunderstand the consequences of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163344	I recognise that it is not quite straightforward, but here it has been very important for me and for the government to ensure protection both in relation to criminal activities, it may be in relation to violent partners, but it may also be because you are an industry where it is very risky, it may be that you have a goldsmith business, and it may be that you deal with mentally ill people, criminals or others, and there it has been very, very serious for me that you should guarantee the legal protection of individuals. Then you have to remember that the address of e.g. Mr. Brian Arthur Mikkelsen will always be hidden with the public authorities. So all public authorities will always have access to it. They will always be able to search the different people. If you, as a citizen, want to search for a specific address, person, you can go to the municipality, and against paying a small fee it will be assessed whether it will be relevant that you can get it delivered. But it will take a little more legwork than today. You have to pay that fee, but you could do so if you could document, for example. a claim due for the person concerned or for any other legal interest in obtaining the address. So it is still possible to come after the criminals or who it was you might be interested in coming after.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163519	Does the author wish to speak on a second point? Yes, he does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163522	I understand that, and I really understand the dilemma. A dragonfly is a good example. I myself have a family in Sweden that is in that industry and has been through things, so I understand that very well. But what the Minister is replying does not solve the problem, for example. journalists or researchers, because they have no legal interest, so they will in fact continue to be unable to access. I therefore believe that a great deal of the critical business journalism that is being done today is based on moves on CVR. I myself cannot immediately withdraw a solution from the hat, but could one look at the committee's reading to see whether one way or another could ensure journalism? Because of the fact that journalist is not a protected title, the violent husband can go up and say that he is a journalist. So it is not easy, I recognise that, but could we try to see in committee whether a solution could be found that did not allow critical business journalism in Denmark with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163624	If you can find a salomonic solution, I will always be willing to look at it because the net has been very finely masked now. But you cannot just allow a journalist to do so because it may happen that the journalist is after the woman in question, that is, whether the title is protected or not, so that is why, having really thought about not really being able to find any other solutions, and I recognize the dilemma. I'm one hundred percent in agreement. But here the most important thing for us has been to protect the person concerned, and we have not been able to protect the person otherwise. Unfortunately, there have also been examples where it has not been possible to do so and where information has simply been sought through CVR, both in terms of criminal acts and in terms of extortion, and it can also be spouses. So it's a broad variation, unfortunately, of criminal acts you can do that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163724	Next to a brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163728	It's kind of on the same street. In relation to your customer procedure and some of the legislation we have made in here to make it harder to cheat and bypass taxes and abuse our VAT system for terrorist financing, one can say that there we have made some rules that we know have put some burdens on business, to use some words that the Minister also uses. We have done this with open eyes throughout the Folketing because it served a higher purpose. That is why, if there is no address protection, it will be more difficult for business to comply with these rules. We can then read that you can turn to the CVR register, but that also requires some work. Wouldn't the Minister like to comment on that a little bit? Because you could also choose a model where you turned it around and said: If you have a good reason to want address protection in the CVR register, if you work in a very risky industry, it might be a reason. And then you could be actively allowed to have address protection, instead of being able to do so if you want to today. Because whatever model is chosen, there are some who have to do something extra. If we choose the model that is on the table now, there will be a lot of companies that will also have to do something extra to comply with the legislation, plus that there will be a lot of risks, such as: Mr. Pelle Dragsted has also mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012163911	I think it is also constructive to look at it in the way the questioner does. I just don't think it's gonna solve the problem. For today, the fact is that we in the Ministry of Industry have had to refuse people who have sought address protection because we have not been able to make any concrete and topical protection worthwhile consideration. And my view remains, and that is why it is in this way that there are serious reasons for taking account of individuals who wish to keep their private address secret and that the current system does not sufficiently take account of these people. If we were to look at the reverse, as the SF's rapporteur says, then it would still require the authorities, that is, the Ministry of Industry, to take a position on it. And we can risk there being cases where you feel threatened by your husband, and then there is just not enough evidence of it; there are, for example, cases where you feel threatened by your husband. Not a cop case on it. There we think it is reasonable to take account of the private person, in this case the woman, so that she can keep her address secret. It may also be in relation to some industries where there is a risk that we cannot document, but which they themselves feel there is. It would be obvious to say that for example. The dragonfly industry was firm based on that categorization, but there may also be some other industries where there is also a security risk that we cannot document. And our concern on the part of the government must always be to be on the part of the private person.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164047	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164051	But this is not just a matter of private individuals but also of business owners. And that is why the whole discussion is getting harder and filled with dilemmas. I understand the Minister's arguments, but I think the Minister ignores the risks to all of us. In other words, we have major problems with tax evasion and we have had huge cases of terrorist financing via VAT fraud and so on. And it is also a question of taking account of the collective. I have heard what the Minister said, and my question now is just whether this will have any impact on the register of real ownership and it is a rhetorical question that owners, i.e. the register that I am sure we together think is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164149	In relation to that part of the question, i.e. when we talk about tax fraud and VAT fraud etc., I think it is first and foremost important to say that public authorities will be able to obtain information about the unpublished addresses. They can do so by contacting the Danish Business Authority or by linking up with one of the distribution solutions offered by the Danish Business Authority. So it will still be the case that as a business owner you will still be registered, but it just won't be published. You will be registered in all the public registers, i.e. the public authorities for the purposes of investigations or investigations, etc. always well will be able to access the registration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164232	The next brief remark is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164249	Thank you. I just need the minister to tell me how young you can be if you're going to work for your uncle or aunt or older brother or father or mother in a bodega, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164259	We have relaxed the ban, we have done so in general, and this has nothing to do with the fact that the legislation has been sloppy, but that we have been approached by the professional organisations. We listened to them, and I think that is timely care, which I think is good administrative behaviour, because the industry considers that the change in time proposed would limit the opportunities for the industry to take up and attract pupils. That is an argument which I think is reasonable. And that's why we've changed it. As far as the host's children or grandchildren are concerned, we have not set up an actual age limit, but that is of course something we will follow closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164346	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164350	I have to ask the Minister if he thinks it's okay for a 14-year-old girl to serve at a bodega until 2:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164402	No, but we also have the general view that if you are a child of a host couple, you must help, and there you must be careful not to make too restrictive and rigid rules when it comes to family relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164429	I would like to make one more brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164435	Thank you for recognising the desire for the technical review. I also think it is important to say that it does not always have to be the case that the Minister is present, but that one just gets it on a personal level, nor does it have to be the whole circle of rapporteurs. In relation to this, one of the things I would like to ask is the possibility that companies can avoid their address information being kept open. I really think it sounds like we share the analysis that there may be a problem. After all, the minister keeps the right of anonymisation higher than the challenges we are raising here. Well, there are so many options to store data and provide the same option. Instead of giving x number of crowns, for example, a journalist could. against being able to prove something essential to be allowed to do so. I also think that there is a challenge, if that is the way I read it, but that is what I would like a technical review of the fact that you simply cannot access this data, so that you cannot access that web around a company that can justify examining it further. That was more of a comment. When the analysis is the same, I think it would be a shame just to ignore some of the challenges because you weigh something else higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164545	The starting point is, of course, that it is not just on the pretext of having some title that you can invoke the right to obtain information about your former spouse or about people in sectors that you would like to know more about because there are criminal activities in the process. However, if you, as a private citizen, and also journalists, want to contact the municipality and ask for a protected address and pay 75 DKK, you can get it if you can prove, for example, a default claim on the person concerned or another legal interest in obtaining the address. That is just like the starting point for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164629	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164634	I have noted that. That is also just what I want to say: the journalist rarely wants a legal requirement, but leave it alone. Let's take a look at it in the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164641	Does this give rise to more from the Minister? Minister for Business and Industry No). Then I would like to thank the Minister for Industry. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164701	The debate is open, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Morten Bødskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164726	Thank you for that, President. One can safely say that it is a bit of a pile of weddings in the financial field that we have to go through here, and that is fine. It is a very comprehensive legislative proposal which contains a number of sub-proposals, and I shall, of course, try to make the position of the Social Democratic Party known. Firstly, there are a few points that strengthen consumer protection, and we can of course support that. Firstly, it is about the possibility for the FSA to draw up and publish guidelines on good practice, and here there are opportunities to draw up these in cooperation with the relevant business and consumer organisations, and secondly, about the possibilities for the FSA to provide a customer with its name and that is what you will now be able to move on to a financial company that has been complained about, for among other things. to look at whether there are general conditions within the company that need to be criticised. This helps to ensure more effective supervision by the FSA in the field of consumer affairs, and of course we can support that too. Finally, what is called the Portability Directive, which is basically about employees travelling out of Denmark or entering Denmark, is better able either to leave their pensions resting here in Denmark or, if you come to Denmark from abroad, to place a pension savings, even without being met with a long waiting period. In addition, there is the benchmark regulation and the PRIIP regulation, both of which are concerned with inter alia: investor protection and the possibility of countering conflicts of interest and manipulation. They must ensure that investors have better access to key information. One of the last points I should like to mention, which the Social Democratic Party can also support, is the adjustment of the designation of the so-called SIFIs, i.e. these financial institutions, which are so large that if they collapse, it is a threat to the overall economy; adjustments are now being made which are quite reasonable. The branches of foreign companies in Denmark, for example, are included in the assessment of what an SIFI should be and should not be. Overall, this is a bill which the Social Democrats can support, and I should like to welcome it from the Radical Left and say that they too can. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012164959	I note that we have now also spoken on behalf of the Radical Left. The next speaker is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012165009	Thank you very much. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur was talking about what the content of this bill is, and it is no secret that it is quite specific in relation to individual elements. The FSA will have the opportunity, in cooperation with the financial sector and consumer representatives, to draw up and publish guidelines for good practice in the field of consumer affairs. This is, of course, an improvement on the current practice. Similarly, it is also the case that the FSA has increased access to information about a consumer complaining about a financial undertaking, if that consumer agrees to it by prior consent. Then Mr. Morten Bødskov also mentioned this in relation to the portability directive, which must then be implemented in Danish legislation. There, the Danish People's Party has just a few questions to the Minister in relation to it ~ it is purely clarifying. It is whether it influences income principles and social benefits in general in relation to Danish social legislation. We want to be sure of that. Finally, it is also the case in this draft law that we will, of course, have a clarification in relation to the companies in the financial sector which have been designated SIFI institutions. It is of course the case that all the main branches in Denmark are also subject to registration in relation to the calculations of which institutions are actually SIFI institutions here in Denmark. And it doesn't matter to those who have been appointed to be it today and to those who will be appointed after this bill has been adopted. We are in favour of the draft law, but, as I said, we must be on safe ground in relation to the portability directive and the possible impact it may have on income principles and social benefits in the Danish welfare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012165209	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the rapporteur on the left, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012165218	After all, financial regulation is important for banks and mortgage banks and investment funds and all sorts of other companies in the financial sector, because it plays a quite central role in the Danish economy and for our prosperity. The conditions for saving and investing and borrowing money are crucial to the conditions for growth that businesses have and the opportunities that we as citizens have to realise our economic aspirations. That is why it is, of course, a question of having a healthy and well-functioning financial sector in which we can have confidence. This requires constant regulation of the sector so that we avoid future financial crises. This bill basically ensures that the regulation of the financial sector is up to date and that it will also improve consumer and investor protection in the financial field. This is a long draft law of 200 pages, so I would just like to highlight some of the elements, the central ones which have also been mentioned by the two previous rapporteurs, in particular the proposal that the FSA should be given the opportunity to draw up and publish guidelines for good practice in the field of consumer affairs. This means that the FSA, in cooperation with representatives of the financial sector and consumers, must agree on the guidelines and thus create a common understanding of the treatment of consumers using services in the financial sector. The draft law also gives the FSA a better opportunity to deal with individual citizens' complaints about financial activities. The proposal ensures that in future the FSA may ask a financial undertaking to explain the behaviour they have shown to the customer in a complaint. The extended powers of the FSA strengthen consumer protection in cases where financial companies are involved and where the consumer believes that things have not been done properly. In addition, it is also a question of the principle of portability, which has also been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, who have to safeguard the pension rights of EU citizens moving across borders. This means that employees moving to another EU-EEA country will be able to earn a pension outside the Danish borders. Similarly, employees moving from an EU-EEA country can earn a pension and they can make sure that any previous pensions can remain resting. It helps to support the fact that you as an employee will not be squeezed if you work across borders. In addition, the proposal also strengthens the exchange of information between the institution and the investor on investment products. This is the implementation of the so-called PRIIP regulation, which aims to give investors easier access to information on investment products. In this way, greater transparency and a better decision-making basis are created for investors, and this significantly strengthens investor protection. And stronger investor protection should, of course, lead to more investment. Similarly, the benchmark controls of the Benchmark Regulation are also carried out so that they become more true. The price of financial instruments is today set according to so-called benchmark, and therefore it is important that they are accurately calculated and that they are reliable; it again ensures good investor protection. And by imposing controls and sanctions for the processing of benchmarks, the proposal ensures that the financial sector uses more robust and fair-tuning benchmarks. As I said, these were some of the elements of the bill. There are also changes around SIFI, part will say how we calculate which institutions are so-called SIFI, i.e. system important financial institutions, which are adapted to the reality that whether it is a Danish financial institution or a branch of a foreign company, it is of course important for the size of the financial sector in Denmark. It gives a more accurate picture. This is a great but quite sensible change, which we support from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012165634	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012165643	Thank you, President or Chairwoman, or whatever you say. After all, this is another one in a long series of proposals that we have seen in these years, which are about regulating the financial sector. It is complicated matter, and one might say that these proposals and their complex nature represent a very good picture of the extent to which our financial sector has developed into a bit of a wilderness. One might wonder whether, instead of trying to regulate the wilderness, we should clear it up a little and simplify things slightly. Maybe there's a little too many creative products out there. That is actually what I would like to say a little about, because the other rapporteurs have already mentioned many of the concrete elements. In the Enhedslisten, we warmly support the strict regulation of the financial sector. It is a sector of enormous importance to society, and it can be said that a few years ago the financial crisis clearly showed that there is no reason to have the great confidence that the private financial sector itself takes responsibility for safeguarding its citizens and society against the harmful effects of financial crises. On the contrary, they showed a lack of responsibility. Basically, I just have to say that we do not think that the regulation that has been introduced since the crisis is sufficient at all. We still have some financial giants that are so big that if they go down, they can pull down the whole economy. It is totally untenable that private groups can have that influence on our society and on the security of our citizens. That is why we basically believe that much more far-reaching reforms are needed, such as: This involves the division of financial giants or superpowers, so that investment banks, banking, mortgage and insurance are again divided into separate groups, as we had legislation on just a few decades ago. During the 1980s and 1990s, we were part of a trend of deregulating the financial sector. It couldn't be free enough, and the state couldn't interfere a little enough, so everything would go well, we were told. It just did not do so, and the sector to which we left enormous responsibility showed that it could not fulfil that responsibility at all. That is why we need to roll back deregulation and liberalisation. This concentration of ownership by a few giant corporations is not only a threat to financial stability, it is also a threat to customers. We see the mortgage sector as the best example right now, how ordinary Danes are used as economic milking machines, where you set up fees and contributions rates over and over again and in this way have the trunk down in the pockets of home owners, borrowers and bank customers, while paying huge billions of dollars to distant owners. So basically, we believe that a completely new financial system is needed. Now we saw that Deutsche Bank said the other day that the next financial crisis is just around the corner. Oh, is it? Then you turn to the next page of the paper and find that we can also discuss a bit of burka and that is much more important than if we are heading for a new financial crisis! We have a small proposal that regulates some small corners, and there are, as I see it, both positive and negative elements in the proposal. However, the proposal does not fundamentally upset the problems we have with the fact that very few large financial institutions have much power over our economy and therefore over ordinary people's everyday lives. If I have to point out something that we think is sensible, it is that you tighten up the rules for what you call variable pay, i.e. how much you have to pay in the form of these fantastic bonus schemes that we have seen lately, among other things. in Nets. I think most of us would like similar bonus schemes, but few hardworking Danes cut a bonus of 600 million. kr. for a few years of faithful service. So it's fine that it gets tightened up. The amendments to the SIFI rules also seem to us to be sensible at first sight. Perhaps it would be interesting to clarify the extent to which institutions will then fall outside in the future. As regards the changes in relation to the mortgage, yes, it sounds as if you are responding to pressure from Finance Denmark in relation to the rules that have just been tightened up about the possibility of paying out your loan. On the other hand, it also sounds as if the softening that is, perhaps, reasonable enough in relation to the fact that when you pay off your loan free of charge, it should be done immediately and not after, for example, after. 5 years. But we will also take a closer look at this in committee. Have I talked over time? Well, then I'll stop here. As I said, the Enhedslisten will make a final decision on the proposal later. We believe that far more far-reaching reforms are needed to safeguard citizens against both fee vultures and new financial crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170214	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170222	Sir. Pelle Dragsted is forgiven for speaking over time. You know, when you're dealing with such an exciting bill like this, it can get rid of you. I will then try to be a little brief and address two essential points of this bill. One is that it aims to increase consumer protection in the financial field by introducing so-called negotiated guidelines, which means that there are guidelines drawn up in dialogue with representatives of consumers and the sector. We think that's a good idea. The second very important point in this bill is that you want to ensure the pension status of Danish employees when they move to another EU country. This is done by allowing the pension to remain as a so-called resting scheme. We can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170330	That's good. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170337	I believe that my speech in this way will lie between the two previous rapporteurs. I would like to ask again for a technical review. In response to the Minister's figures just now and the fact that this is something that we would like to be given, I would also hurry to say that it does not have to be the whole rapporteur class. It might just be one that gets a little help. But it often turns out that there are more who want this help. The reason why I think it is important to invest in such a review is, of course, that it is at least cheap. We are allowing ourselves to make piles of proposals, which the opposition may find to be a little awkward, perhaps also the rapporteurs of the support parties. It's a cheap round to be able to give such a review and then save all the low practice that will be in having a lot of other bills split up if we now had ten instead of one. So I'll allow myself to do that. That investment I think is good. As we are not going to make a decision on this bill immediately, I will take two minutes to talk about our working conditions in here. There are often some who think that I am very critical when I talk about democracy and how we work as parliamentary politicians. I'd like to draw a thick black line under the fact that it's in respect of all the good things we have that I'm saying this. For we are certainly privileged with a good democracy and good working conditions and some fantastic and competent colleagues. But the interesting thing about seeing such a technical review live stream is that you can hear some of the stupid questions that I am going to ask; some of the obvious flaws in my knowledge in dealing with such a bill here. And Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentioned how complicated some of it is. And sometimes from a party like ours there may be something green on the agenda, where it may seem very, very banal, but be very important to us. There may also be a ban on burka on the agenda, and then we can talk about it at length, because it is understandable and there may be an opinion as to whether it is worth discussing. But when we sit at these reviews, you can hear that it is not us politicians who know everything about everything. We have a system behind us that dresses us up. Therefore, a debate on this proposal will also be important, I think. I was presented as rapporteur in a relatively small party on Tuesday that I had 12 legislative proposals in the Chamber this week. I really think that many people feel even more interesting than I do on that front and who have more legislative proposals. So what exactly are we being asked for? So, are we being asked to study them, or are we being asked to come up and deliver something that I am now standing and doing? Then I'll ask for a technical review. Why do I do that? It is because I would like to get a little help in understanding it to the bottom so that we make a good decision. But can we really handle 12 proposals in a small party? There are some who are smaller than our party. And can you come in here and say something gifted that's not just a reproduction? I am not sure whether this is the right way to work in Parliament, that is to say, at such short notice, to go up and make so many opinions about something so important. Fortunately, we have a democracy that is far better than in virtually all other countries, I think. That's what I usually say. I think we have the best democracy in the world. So it's not like we're doing it bad. I just think it's worth thinking about whether we could do it differently. Could the government, regardless of its color, think about whether this is really beneficial? If you have a majority, should you serve it all in some records? I do not know if that is possible, but then it could slide down in a different way and then you could take a position there. Sometimes, at least, we make some major decisions in the files that come around. Because I think, at some level, that these joint proposals, just as if we have a very, very short period of time in which to decide on what to vote for one thing and the other, are not meaningful. Actually, I think so. But then it is good that we have the work of the committee and the opportunity to have a kind minister to help us, so that it nevertheless becomes meaningful. On television it just sometimes seems a little different from the incredibly in-depth and objective work that is going on, both in the ministries and through all the helpers we have in here, the skilled experts, and also by the politicians. What we have up here will be very superficial, and then it will be a song that I want a sustainable bottom line and three general focus areas, i.e. economic, environmental and social. I can then conclude almost all my speeches with that, because I have to make some general political statement, even on such a proposal here. I thank you very much for the opportunity for the technical reviews and a kind minister, but I think it is too much to pile up so many proposals, and often at such short notice as this has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170749	There is just one for a brief remark. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170753	It's not that I want to interfere with the bill itself, but sir. René Gade talks about processes, and there I just have a simple question. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... René Gade will also follow the Consultation Portal... at least in my area of law... and we will know that well in advance when something comes. So would it not be appropriate for the public consultation period, i.e. perhaps already several months before the bill is tabled in the Parliamentary Assembly, to point this out if one can see that something is big and technical, so simply on the part of the parties asking for these technical reviews to be carried out? I think they can be entirely relevant and then we can also plan them into the work of the committees, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170849	That is absolutely right. One of the things that some of the consultation parties sometimes make as a comment is that it can be critical if something is set in motion during the summer holidays of schools, to which they have to respond during a period when there are not so many available staff. It doesn't matter to me as a politician, because I can go in and check these answers, often in relatively good time. Sometimes there is just no available consultation answer, i.e. to see, at least not where I usually look, i.e. not on the portal, I mean. There they often come to the end, sometimes a few days up to. It is not a clear problem that I am highlighting in this week of 12 legislative proposals since Tuesday, how much of it has been available in one way or another but yet I think there is a problem in it. However, I would like to sum up that these are far better conditions than I could imagine in almost any other country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170938	The questioner will say no more, but there is one more for a brief remark. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012170945	First of all, I would just like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for bringing this up; it is kind of brave to stand up and say, and I kind of agree that much of this is so complicated that it is simply difficult for us to understand. What is the problem here, and there we are talking a little about something in the terms of democracy, is that we should then base ourselves on, for example. A technical review, which is, of course, a review by the Ministry's officials, who are the Minister's men and women, and which may therefore also risk producing certain elements in a particular light. When I read such a concept as for example... I am always, in a figurative sense, drawing the gun, which also appears in this bill, because what is the point of clarification? Is that a relief? Is that a sharpening? Okay, okay, etc. So I have actually been thinking about the work on the three legislative proposals we have today, whether we should not have a commentary from the parliamentary administration, that is, from our officials, in all due respect to the officials over there, so that it could become more part of the work, at least with these very complicated proposals, which might also say what might be of arguments against and of arguments in favour. Well, of course we use the consultation answers and that is good, but it is just not always that the consultation answers we get are necessarily comprehensive all around.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171117	I agree very much. I was not a group chairman at the time, but I think that, when we had the debate on party funding, there was also a rather interesting debate on whether the machinery spaces of the Folketing could be strengthened even better. I see that the ministries are very helpful in every way possible and that the officials are producing a true picture, but the right-wing picture is often an ordered picture, and it is not the officials who are wronging themselves, nor the politicians; that is how the system works. So I think it would be very interesting to work on getting something from the Parliament's machinery spaces, not from the ministries, as a test. We have also spoken earlier in the Alternative about the fact that in the debates we have, it might be interesting to have parliamentary officials comment on what I am saying now, i.e. whether it makes sense. I mean, does what I said a moment ago harmonize with what I said three days ago? It's the same way we have commentators sitting here discussing spin. In this way, I could actually be kept in my ears, because sometimes you may have misunderstood something that it might be healthy enough to correct. So I fully agree with the rapporteur that this could be interesting. I also think I hear the rapporteur correctly when I hear that this is not a criticism of the presentation of officials, because that is what the world is like, that is, the way it is presented. However, in the case of the technical reviews, I see that the political aspect is gone, so when you ask for clarification, for example. If you mean a change, you get a correct answer. You might get a case that shows it, just as we did in the other area before. So technical reviews are one of the best things possible right now, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171241	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171243	In other words, just the last thing about whether it should be commented on, if we are going to say any nonsense from the platform, I do not know whether will be of benefit to the politicians, including myself. But with regard to the consultation answers, for example, we will be able to reach agreement. I would like to say that what I am afraid of, to be quite honest, with such a pile of proposals on the financial sector, is whether there is somewhere down there the seeds of the next financial crisis, because one wants to liberalise some small corner of something with investment funds. And there isn't a hearing party. There is sometimes a consumer council that goes in and looks at it that way, and then we have some organisations of interest, but there is not a consultation party that, if I may, takes the side of society and says, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. It is actually our responsibility to discover it, and I sometimes think it is a little heavy responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171338	I agree. And I would also like to say that, in addition to the fact that we always need to push for consultation answers that come as nuanced as possible, what I think they are most often sometimes lacking some, but then I think there is also sensitivity to finding them. I would also like to say that the big parties in here are helping us. In other words, when you come as number x in the line and have got the Social Democracy and the Left to present what the proposal is about, I can sometimes allow myself to come up and be a little selective. And that is because there is work in the larger parties that is even more thorough than we can do in ours. So you are helped by the larger parties in here, and we live there, among other things. high on so that we can afford to be a little sharper on a few points. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171415	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012171438	Thank you. It is almost a pity to interrupt such an exciting debate on principle, which is prompted by the rapporteur of the alternative. I really think that we should continue this debate at a different time, because there is, after all, a great deal in this bill. There is also more than I can say in my speech, and this is in fact a little linked to the discussion that took place just now that we have such large and complicated legislative proposals. I just remembered that sir... Pelle Dragsted mentioned this with an commented consultation overview, because it's so nice when you're sitting in, for example. The European Committee of the Regions wants to get over what the government wants to present. It is, of course, presented in a certain light. And then you have a commentary, where some employees in the Folketing sit and say that this is how they interpret it to the best of their ability, that is to say that it is objectively what it is all about. So I would like to support the fact that we are going ahead with this work, because there is a lot, especially in the financial field, to stick to it. We can see a great deal of progress in the legislative proposal that has been put forward. But I also have to say that every time we take a step or one and a half forward in trying to secure ourselves against the next financial crisis that comes, with network requirements, with SIFI designation and everything else, some things are also constantly being put into these safeguards that are undermining them a little. Although that is not what the draft law is about today, I would just like to say something in general about the SIFI designation. When we did it, there were many of us who could see that it was a good idea. One had to have special legislation for systemically important banks and institutions, that is, for some who are too big to fail, those where we could be put in an impossible situation if they collapse again. But then we have made legislation, we have changed, we have patched up, we have created opportunities for internal model calculations, which then may not give a completely transparent insight into the size of the SIFIs or the risks inherent in them. So I think that is a problem, and that is why I am glad that Mr. Pelle Dragsted was talking about how we keep implementing directives and regulations. It's mostly also progress and patching up various bank packages and the SIFI model, etc., but everything is getting more and more complicated, and we lose track of what kind of security is really here. Another part of this bill is about good custom rules, and there I have a horn in the side of good custom rules. It annoys me over and over again that in this area in particular, we always have to discuss good practice as if it's about morals or good behaviour or child rearing. Well, it's bizarre, I think that in a legal society we have so much in important areas that are not subject to bell-clear legislation, i.e. where it's not super transparent that you can do this, and you can't do this. In the financial field, we have good rules of practice which must be interpreted and, in fact, it is a little unfair, I think, to those who have to comply with the rules of good practice, that it is often in a grey area whether they are observed or not. So, in terms of legal certainty, I think it is a problem that we have good rules in so many areas, instead of trying to make some legislation, so you know that here you are complying with the law and you are not complying with the law. I've said that many times, and I keep saying it because I think it's a bad thing with all these good custom rules. However, part of it is also about the guidelines negotiated here, and there I could see that part of the consultation answers were on whether the negotiated guidelines for the FSA should have the same structure as the negotiated guidelines for the Consumer Ombudsman, namely that if all parties involved do not agree, then it will not be guidelines, then it will be a guide. And then it just becomes too fluffy and too airy if it is to be a guide on how to behave. I would like to ask the Minister about this or ask a written question about it. So, in an area where you have parties that may have very clear opposing interests, should all stakeholders agree before the guidelines negotiated here are in place and have to be implemented by the FSA? I find that interesting. In other words, there is something that must count more than anything else: the economy, the security of the citizens in relation to future crises, etc. And I would like to ask a few questions about whether all parties can veto it, as it were, so that it will be such a totally watered-down model as can be seen elsewhere. Sorry I've been talking too long. I will take the rest of my notes in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172036	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172047	Thank you. The draft law contains a number of amendments to various laws in the financial field, which the previous rapporteurs have explained relatively closely, so I shall see if I can be brief. The changes have, among other things, been made. The aim is to increase consumer protection in the financial field. In addition, the draft law provides for the implementation of the portability directive, which will then guarantee employees' rights in moving jobs to Denmark or from Denmark to another EU country. For the Conservative People's Party, the free movement of workers is one of the cornerstones of EU cooperation, so that is, of course, something that we are positive about; it is some of the things that help to create prosperity for Denmark. In addition, it is also important to note that the directive is implemented as closely as possible. I also think that this is an important priority, so that we do not overimplement. The draft law also provides a more accurate framework for the designation of SIFIs, which is a good thing, so that you get a better overview of the financial sector. As the important branches of foreign credit institutions in Denmark are then included in the inventory, it gives everything else just a more accurate picture, which in turn benefits the stability of the financial sector in Denmark. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law provides for the possibility for the FSA to draw up and publish negotiated guidelines of good practice in the field of consumer affairs, as is well known in the area of marketing. Then I think I will say nothing more than that the Conservative People's Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172231	There is just one brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172235	This is such a rather general, fundamental question: what is the Conservative People's Party's position on, what should we say, the use of good practice instead of, for example, the use of good practice? legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172252	I am not sure I can give a specific answer to that, except that I would say that it may be important for the industry itself to develop guidelines because things change. There may be some things that change in the context of developments in various areas, and that is why there may be reason to think that it is possible to negotiate this out here in the individual areas it concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172320	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172322	When I ask, it is because the Conservative People's Party is often a party that is very keen on law and order and legal certainty and that there must be clear lines. If you imagined, for example... in the field of taxation had good rules of practice instead of bell-clear legislation, it would look quite different. But when we often have a discussion about e.g. the use of tax havens or tax evasion, I am often told by people in the Conservative camp that what is not at all illegal. Well, maybe it's in a gray area, but it's not clearly illegal. There is much to be done to follow the law, and everything else must be put in danger. So it is again a bit of a matter of principle whether we, as legislators, should not make quite clear what is legal and what is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172418	This is, of course, the starting point, and this is the case in the vast majority of areas, but it is also reasonable to say that in some areas it may also make sense for industry to develop guidelines for what is considered to be good practice in different areas. We have looked at it, for example. the marketing area, where it works. That is why I think it may sometimes be good to give it the freedom to negotiate these good rules on its own in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172443	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more inscribed in short remarks. That was the end of the rapporteur's line and I shall therefore give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172500	Thank you. Thank you for the comments and the general one, I think, very positive reception of the proposal. The aim of the bill is, among other things, to: to increase consumer protection in the financial field. Among other things, it has to be done. the introduction of negotiated guidelines in the financial field. We already know about the tool negotiated guidelines from the marketing area, where the tool has proved its worth. Instead, we are proposing to use the same financial tool in relation to the rules of good practice. This is a good tool because the guidelines are designed in close dialogue with both representatives of consumers and financial business organisations. The guidelines will therefore reflect a common understanding of what is good practice and can help to ensure better compliance with it for the benefit of consumer protection. The consultation has also shown that organisations welcome the instrument because it can contribute to clearer rules for the benefit of both consumers and businesses. However, the draft law also proposes to improve FSA's ability to supervise consumer affairs in cases where a customer has complained about a financial company. The aim of the draft law is also to guarantee the right of employees to earn and retain pension rights when they move between Denmark and another EU country. Employees are thus given the opportunity to leave their pension funds in the form of a resting scheme. This can support labour mobility between the Member States of the European Union. The draft law also implements a number of amendments designed to strengthen the protection of retail investors. Among other things, it has to be done. by ensuring easier access to key information on, inter alia, so-called composite and insurance-based investment products so that investors have the opportunity to make informed decisions about their investments. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172656	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172700	Thank you. If the Minister cannot answer this, I will of course ask the question in writing, but from the draft law I had difficulty reading how the model of the negotiated guidelines should be drawn up in practice before they are implemented by the FSA. Is it the case that the various parties can veto or say that they do not want it to be part of the outcome of the negotiations? That is how I read it, namely that when they are to be negotiated, you can just as well say that they are not to be negotiated. Or let me rephrase it: gets it the same structure as for example. The consumer ombudsman, where it can go from being guidelines to being a guide, which is a much weaker variant?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172756	In this case, of course, it will be a strengthening of the role of the FSA, because in the end it will be they who decide it. So it can be said that, in relation to the formal process, I will get the answer in writing, but the things that are being agreed and negotiated are not something that has come out of thin air. These are, after all, some things which are also based on specific guidelines. So there is no relaxation in any of those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172826	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172828	That is not what I am asking either, because it is quite clear that it will be a strengthening of the role of the FSA, but my question is: are there any parties that can sit in that circle and veto or move the guidelines elsewhere? These are negotiated guidelines, but what does that mean in practice? Does this mean that there are some who can make the guidelines more difficult than they would otherwise have been?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012172904	If it has been negotiated, then the starting point is that it can move. My starting point is that it should not be more difficult, but one cannot explicitly set it up on such a scale, which means that it can become more difficult, but it also depends on what the starting point is. But the starting point is that you have some principles and then you have to find out what you are doing. I cannot say exactly because there is no definition of what the conclusion will be, what the conclusion will be and whether it will be more difficult on the basis of that question, as I understand the question. But let us try to make a written round on it so that I might understand the question more clearly, because I cannot give a clear conclusion on that we cannot do today where it will end, because it depends on what input comes in that process. However, I would very much like to reply to that in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173003	Mr. Pelle Dragsted on the field. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173010	Now this proposal is about another level of regulation of the financial sector. The Minister has probably also read this statement by Deutsche Bank the other day that it is believed to be on the way to a new financial crisis, and that next time we have no room for action at all, because interest rates are low or negative and we cannot make any more of this so-called quantitative easing, which, moreover, they think is one of the reasons why there is a bubble under construction on both the stock and housing markets. Does the Minister agree that there are danger signals of this kind and does the Minister believe that we are also adequately protected in Denmark by this draft law against a new financial crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173113	Of course, you have to be careful never to say, and then in five years' time, if anything happens, I'll be kept in what I've said from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament. It can then be said that after the course that was up to September 2008, when Lehman Brothers cracked these nine years ago, it has gradually become, we have at least padded, we have at least secured a different kind of foundation under our financial companies, which we did not have in 2008. Then the global market is still very volatile, and there may be some crises that we cannot take into account, but what I can at least say up here from the platform is that we have strengthened the foundations of the financial sector significantly more than we had up to September 2008 • significantly more. So I am not saying that we cannot rule out the possibility of something happening, but at least some steps have been taken which are quite substantial in relation to the pre-2008 period.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173227	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173229	Some of the things that are speculating a lot at the moment are, after all, this possible Chinese credit crisis. The wise men are also talking about this in their report from the other day. What would such a credit crisis mean, i.e. how involved is Denmark in relation to the Chinese financial sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173252	I simply do not have any figures on that. I do not know how much the Danish banks are involved in this, and I would very much like to reply to that in writing so that we can examine it both at the National Bank and in the financial world. I'm sure the National Bank has those numbers. I don't even have those numbers, so I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173308	Then we can thank the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173325	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173402	Thank you, President. I have taken this matter on behalf of our tax rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen, who has no opportunity to be here today. This bill is, of course, part of the implementation of the political agreement of 22 March 2017 between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF on the development of the North Sea and, as those who have been following the debate in the Chamber since this morning will know, I was also rapporteur on L 42, which is the second part of the implementation of this agreement, and therefore some of what I am saying will be identical to what I said this morning. So to those who have heard it once, I apologise in advance. For the Social Democratic Party, it has been important as a party to the agreement to secure the many jobs that have been at stake in the North Sea. Activities in the North Sea employ thousands of Danes. With the agreement on the reconstruction of the Tyra field, we have secured a central infrastructure for activities in the North Sea and, therefore, also the many jobs that have been at risk of disappearing. Social democracy ensured that the financing of the agreement was fair and socially balanced, as opposed to the government's original funding proposal. Without an agreement, there would be less money available to secure and develop our welfare societies. It is now worth rebuilding the field in the North Sea, while the state, in turn, gets a share in the surplus that may come. We are satisfied with that. We are so pleased that the agreement meets support across the political parties in the Folketing. So little about the concrete bill. It is proposed to introduce an investment window for hydrocarbon producers in the period 2017-2025. The window implies an increase in the depreciation and hydrocarbon allowance rates for investments in production platforms. In addition, an additional tax is proposed, which means, in whole or in part, that producers have to pay back the tax relief in the case of high oil prices. Finally, it is proposed that the advance VAT system should be abolished, so that the proceeds from it are included in the financing of the tax reliefs. Overall, the draft law aims to improve the possibilities for cooperation in the North Sea and ensure that infrastructure is used in the most socio-economically appropriate way. And this is a proposal which, of course, the Social Democratic Party can support, as long as we are part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173644	Thank you. There is one question, and it is from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173650	On 28 February this year, the Environmental Economic Council presented their annual report, and that report criticises the fact that taxation in the North Sea is not too low, that it is too high. The Council writes directly in the report: however, there seems to be considerable scope for higher taxation compared to the current level without hitting an unrealisticly high tax rate. The Environmental Economic Council is not alone in thinking this. If we are faced with a situation in which the tax paid in the North Sea is, in fact, too low and not too high, why is it that the Social Democrats are now going in and supporting another tax rebate on taxes that are already too low?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173740	Apparently, sir. Rune Lund is capable of predicting what is going to happen on the oil market. Those are abilities that I certainly don't have. It must be assumed, if necessary, that it is because the price of oil is rising significantly in relation to today if it is possible to do so. But then, sir... Rune Lund is comforted that if that event occurs, one will pay more in tax, since there is an agreement and a clause which ensures that oil prices increase beyond what is expected, then it will also have to be settled accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173825	If you want to follow-up questions, you have to press ahead, because there are more questioners. You press for the floor again, because it may be that the answer is so good that one more question is unnecessary. But then it isn't, I can look at sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173841	It is a practice that is very dependent on who is sitting in the chair. But all right, I'm gonna press twice, that's no problem. I would just like the Social Democrat rapporteur to confirm that what we are dealing with here is a tax relief for some companies which already pay a tax which, according to the Environmental Economic Council, for example. Today is far too low.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173909	It is an investment window which must ensure that the investments needed to rebuild Tyra are made and, as I have already explained once, it can be very easy to conclude that this is no relaxation, as long as it depends on oil prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173930	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012173933	Thank you. Well, history is, of course, quite short, that Mærsk and the other oil companies have earned significantly more than what was the basis of the 2003 agreement. And then they come after a number of years and say that now it is no longer profitable to refurbished the apparatus they have out there. But excuse me: they have a concession up to 2040 and year after year they have made a significant profit. Showmen are talking about an overpayment of over 10 billion. kr., and then they come and want extra tax discounts to make sure they can pick up further in the last part of the deal that runs. I actually thought that Mærsk was known for what is called due diligence, but it is not exactly possible to say that has been the case here. You come instead with the hat in your hand, and then Danish taxpayers have to pay for Mærsk to have some apparatus refurbished, which you could have predicted. So, the reason the Tyra field is sinking is because oil has been picked up, and it cannot come to the surprise of Mærsk that this would be the case. Everyone knows now that the matter is that in the agreement concluded this summer, Mærsk should have a higher price for their oil when they withdrew and sold to Total. The rapporteur said in this regard, in other words the sale to Total, that the rapporteur was disappointed that Mærsk in this way, if I may say so, thanked him very much for that tax relief. It meant they could get a higher price when they sold. Is the rapporteur still disappointed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174102	Not only I, but also our group chairman, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, has expressed a general disappointment at Mærsk's social involvement in Denmark. We have made this clear, and I have also noted that many have taken note of it. I am pleased about this, because I think it is important that we have companies that contribute to taking significant social responsibility. And part of that is to ensure security of supply. I should also say, without being an expert in all the details and every corner of the North Sea, that I believe that it is not oil that is primarily picked up from the Tyra field but gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174155	I think that is true, but Tyra is still at the heart of both gas and oil from other parts of the North Sea, as far as I am aware. But let's just leave it alone. I just need to understand the disappointment. If the rapporteur is disappointed, does the rapporteur regret having contributed to an agreement which proved to be primarily aimed at guaranteeing Mærsk a better price when selling their oil and gas business? That was not, as it were, the purpose of the agreement in the spring, at least in the eyes of the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174236	The purpose of the agreement was to ensure that there was an expansion in the North Sea and to secure the thousands of jobs that are mainly centred around Esbjerg Harbour. And it may well be that in Enhedslisten you don't care about Esbjerg Harbour and the jobs over there. We are not in the Social Democratic Party, nor are we indifferent to ensuring that the economy is linked to the different costs that depend on North Sea revenue, for example. Train Fund DK. And we must not forget this, in other words, that resources in the North Sea may not be used, because then there would be less income for the state, and that has also been crucial to the social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174332	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. And we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174339	After all, the legislative proposal is about reducing the taxation of hydrocarbons for certain investments and abolishing the system of advance VAT. I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that we think that Denmark has some huge socio-economic interests in oil and gas production in the North Sea, and that is for several reasons. Firstly, in order to ensure security of supply, we have to do so, among other things. is less dependent on Middle Eastern oil states, but it is also because it provides incredibly many jobs and is a good source of revenue for the state. And the challenge facing us is that the North Sea plant was worn out and required quite large and massive investment. That is why we have agreed to an agreement which will ensure temporary reductions in taxation, which will give some air to the reconstruction of the Tyra field in particular. After all, it is a fairly broad agreement in which the Danish People's Party is involved and, of course, supports it, and I would say that I welcome the fact that it is a broad agreement that takes responsibility for this. Specifically, it is a question of making higher rates for depreciation and hydrocarbon deductions in a window from 2017 to 2025, but there is a condition that you not only get a deduction, but that there is also something called an additional tax that makes producers pay parts or everything back if there is a high oil price. The scheme is therefore optional, so you can choose not to if you, as a producer, do not think it is a good idea. But I think they will take it, because that is also a good agreement for them, so to speak, both for the state and for the producers. The agreement ensures that if the price of oil rises to at least $75 a year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the price of oil is rising quite sharply, you can actually pay back more as a producer. The financing is then that the advance VAT system is abolished and some dividends are taken from the Growth Fund and the Export Credit Fund. But I also think I would like to say that some of the important things in this debate that should be taken into account are that what if we did not do something and did not make this agreement? The risk would then be that production would be stopped or that there would not be so much investment in oil and gas production in the North Sea, and then we would miss out on a lot of billions of dollars. So you can be upset that Denmark is now granting a temporary tax relief. But if nothing had been done and production had been stopped, Denmark would have lacked 26 billion. kr. in 2040 and it is quite a considerable amount to be missing in the Treasury. Not only to the Train Fund DK, as the Socialist rapporteur explained, but also in general terms. We just wanted to get a huge financial problem in the Treasury. So we think it is a quite reasonable agreement and we are also pleased that there is broad support for it in the Parliamentary Chamber. So the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174643	Thank you. There are brief comments, and that is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174647	I simply do not recognise the premise that if this tax rebate had not been granted, there would be no investment in the Tyra platform. We can see, of course, when it comes to the North Sea agreement, which was made back in 2003, and which was based on the fact that the oil price was supposed to be 22 dollars per annum. I would like to point out that in 2042 the price of oil has been much higher than it has ever been since, and that it has been well over 100 dollars a year. barrel. At the moment, it is about $50 apiece. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. That is probably more than 10 billion. kr. after tax, ever since the agreement was concluded in 2003. At least these are the figures we have from 2003 to 2010, after which the public has been shut down, compared to how much oil companies actually earn. We can no longer get answers as to how much they actually make after tax. But we can see that the economy has certainly not deteriorated out there. So now that tax conditions are so favourable, when so many more billions of dollars are earned a year after tax than was originally provided, why do you need more relief? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174808	It is true that the price of oil has been high at some point, but now it is low, and it is now that you have to invest in it, and it is therefore more expensive to pull oil out of an underground such as the North Sea than it is to pull it up into, for example, the North Sea. A desert state. It is therefore more investment-intensive to do something about it. When the price of oil is so low, it is a simple accounting calculation that you are looking at: is it worth investing massive sums as it is now? And there was the feedback that it can't, unless you make this temporary arrangement for them. And if it develops again, as Enhedslisten believes it does, that is to say that oil prices are going to rise, so that we also get some money in the Train Fund DK, then they will sort of pay back the whole amount again, and that is quite positive. Then there was a little point in the question of social democracy, that is to say that they have now got far too much money and that we should just raise taxation. Well, I think it would be quite difficult to make an agreement with DONG, Mærsk or the other players out there, where they said: if you are allowed to pay something more in tax, wasn't it interesting to rebuild the field out there? So I'm pretty sure it would have ended up with us missing this 26 billion. kr. in 2040.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174913	Then it was mr. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012174918	The oil companies in the Danish part of the North Sea shovel in money and they pay less in tax than they do in Norway. If we had had this debate in Norwegian Storting, the political consensus would have been around the views of Enhedslisten. So, in Norway we simply do not understand that we have reached such a poor agreement with such favourable tax conditions for the oil companies in the North Sea, and now the rapporteur says that oil prices have fallen. But it is still far above what was provided for in the 2003 agreement. And in relation to the tax rebate that is being given, it can be said that it is, after all, a bird in the hand of the oil companies in relation to the concessions that come forward. But whether the price of oil is rising enough to give SKAT some extra tax revenue is after all a bird on the roof compared to the Treasury. Again: You could have set up the tax without at the same time giving a relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175009	Yeah, but then I just don't think they had been made to make these big investments, and then we wouldn't have had a bird in our hand, but a huge deficit. Well, you wouldn't have brought this in. It is true that the companies have made good money on this, but so has the Danish state. After all, they operate out there on behalf of the Danish state, and I agree that Enhedslisten thinks that in principle one could have a tax of 100 per cent. And then get them to do it for free. But it's not like that. It is a calculation which one has to make and say: okay, we have to make sure that the Danish state earns from it. And, by the way, there's a pretty high tax on it out there. But if it is not interesting to invest in it, we will get nothing at all, and that is where we have now tried to create a mechanism where we are making a temporary tax relief that is dependent on oil prices. If they get a high oil price, we'll get the whole baddy back in, and I think that's actually quite a good business for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175050	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175051	But does the rapporteur think that the progress made by Mærsk has been pretty? So, you come up with such a revolt plomati and say: if we do not get tax relief, we will shut down Tyra on 1 January. And there, in some way, the rapporteur's party and the majority in this House will be terrified, for God, imagine if we did not get that money in the box. And you get these tax rebates imposed on the already existing tax rebates, which mean that you are even less taxed compared with our neighbouring countries, and the first thing you do as a thank you for your party's service is to sell your oil and gas to a foreign oil company which is now sitting on the Danish North Sea oil. Is this a process that the rapporteur thinks can be proud of?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175147	I think it is quite natural for a company to come and say: we are operating in the North Sea for you, but under the conditions that are today, it is just not profitable for us to invest wildly to rebuild this field. And then, in a discussion, you try to figure out what you're doing so that for both sides it's still a good business. I have no problem with the fact that as a company you also make money from this, but it must of course first and foremost be a good agreement for Denmark. And since we're doing this, we're gonna make sure there's 24 billion. kr. in the box towards 2040, it is also quite a good deal for Denmark. Then you can live in a world where you think that if we had just raised taxation, it would have been crawling with people who wanted to do it anyway. I just don't think that would have happened. I really think it is quite reasonable that we have made a temporary reduction for those who depend on oil prices. So if it's going to rise violently, they're going to pay back the whole bad wolf again. I think that is actually a very good agreement for both parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175240	I mean, raising taxes I think we should have done many years ago, but right now we are talking about giving an extra tax rebate. However, the rapporteur now represents a very national minded party. How does the rapporteur actually feel about the fact that it is now foreign oil companies that sit heavily on the Danish North Sea oil, with the consequences that exist? A lot has been said about jobs, but the Director of Total has said very clearly that he cannot guarantee that the jobs that exist today will be maintained or that future jobs will go to Danish employees. Isn't there something about Mærsk having a special role and that one has therefore been a little sweeter and softer to them? And their thanks were then to sell it to a foreign oil company. How does the rapporteur actually feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175334	Now the picture is not so simple, that it was only Mærsk who operated there in advance. There are also other companies such as Bavaria gas and Shell. There are other companies than the Danishs alone who are out there. I would have liked to see Mærsk continue, but what is crucial to me is that we ensure that we get some resources out of the ground, that we ensure that there is security of supply and that we secure these jobs, but also that we get revenue for the state. I do not think it is so crucial whether it is Mærsk who is doing it or another company, but it is more important that they can comply with the obligations that they have signed that they would comply with out there. At least that is what I have got out of the main conclusions of the agreement made by Mærsk when it was sold on, that is to say that the new company must comply with exactly the same obligations. And as production takes place in the North Sea, there is probably also a good chance that jobs will remain in the North Sea. Esbjerg, and that they may not move to a completely different country, which it does not make sense to drive it off when the production is in Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175423	We have another question, sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175426	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think the rapporteur started a fine place by saying: what would actually happen if we did not do this? And that may then be a political difference that makes you think something different. Because in the alternative, we do not think we should give better conditions to the operators in the North Sea, because we want a green transition, and despite the fact that we would like to have the money coming from out there in the Danish Treasury. This could happen either by selling to a foreign company, which we can then be very critical of, or by providing some conditions where there are some who want to operate out there. We believe that it is essential to do things in good time which bring about a green transition. That is why we cannot support a proposal like this, and that is why we think that priority is wrong. And we'd be safer if something else had happened. However, my question to the rapporteur relates to funding. Although I have not concentrated very much on the advance VAT system in the past, one can say: what if we did not do this? Then we would insist on giving a lot of Danish exporters, smaller companies, the head start that they feel they also have to make environmentally sound investments, to make capacity expansions. I mean, that's kind of the funding we're dealing with here. Right now we are giving some very large operators some opportunities, some better conditions through tax cuts, and thus, as I read it, we take it may be that I become wiser during committee processing • financial opportunities from some smaller companies that live on export and which may with a wider palette can benefit Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175548	I have actually had a company of my own which mainly exported the goods bought in Denmark and sold them abroad and I had just this negative VAT experience where you always had to have money back. But I had no idea that that arrangement was there. In fact, I think there are a lot of small companies who do not know that the scheme is there and use it. When you look at the figures, you will see that these are actually quite a few companies. And as far as I remember, about ten companies got 60%. of the money paid out, and these are some of the very large companies in Denmark. So the picture that it is mainly small companies is certainly not one I recognize. But we can naturally ask the tax minister to elaborate on this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175631	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175633	I've been taught that I have to get in here the second time. As I said earlier, I should not say that it has weighed heavily in my political career to talk about this issue. But I can, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to one of the answers to the hearing, namely the reply from the Co-operative Merchants, where I think it was 1,450 Members who said that this was a problem for them. Let us assume that the problem is not as great as it is stated. But that is the weighting in relation to giving this tax relief to large operators in the North Sea, where we cannot be guaranteed Danish jobs, as I hear is one of the arguments against giving the exporting companies the backlash that is needed. If this is a minimal gain we could have got there, I can follow the rapporteur. Then maybe it's fine. I just think the weighting seems pretty high at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175710	Well, it's never popular to take anything from anyone. And it would always be desirable, from the point of view of industry too, for us both to retain the VAT advance system and to provide a relief for the North Sea. But that's not the way the world is. Things have to be financed. But when you look at the fact that it is the state that provides an interest-free credit, the first question is whether it is reasonable. And secondly, the interest rate is incredibly low. And if you're a big company like Novo Nordisk, I think you can go out and find cheap funding somewhere else because it's a good upholstered company. So I don't think the problem is as big as it's made. I have also seen the consultation answers, which are very critical, but we are aware of the natural fact that when you finance some things and take something from someone, they must almost say that they are not at least satisfied with that part. If you take the overall solution, where we actually ensure that we can have security of supply and also maintain some jobs in the oil and gas industry, then I really still think it is a good and sensible agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175803	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012175811	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. The draft law, as several of my predecessors, the rapporteurs of the other parties, have said, translates part of the political agreement on the development of the North Sea. It was concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party in March this year. The overall purpose of this bill is to create an investment room to renovate the infrastructure currently used in the production of oil and gas in the North Sea, including the Tyrafelt plant, which accounts for most of the oil and gas production in Denmark. With the proposal, we are introducing a reduction in the taxation of hydrocarbons during the period 2017-2025. It creates space for an investment in the very worn-out infrastructure and allows us also to extract resources from the North Sea in the future. Specifically, this means that, in a window covering the period 2017-2025, hydrocarbon producers must be able to choose to calculate the hydrocarbon income under a scheme which involves an increase in the depreciation and hydrocarbon allowance rates for investments in production platforms, etc. and an advance on the date of entry into service of the dates of payment in relation to such depreciation and deductions. In addition, an additional tax is introduced, the purpose of which is to allow the hydrocarbon producers who have chosen to make use of the scheme to pay back all or part of the tax relief in the event of high oil prices. Due to the repayment of the tax relief by means of an additional tax, it would be optional for the hydrocarbon tax payers to make use of the scheme. The proposal will provide industry with the necessary tax incentives to ensure improved conditions for investment in the production of oil and gas in the North Sea. Improving production conditions in the North Sea will strengthen companies in the oil and gas industry for the benefit of all Danish users. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180011	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180015	What is the rapporteur's comment on the fact that the Environmental Economic Council, but also many others, has pointed out in this way that tax payments in the North Sea are already too low and should be set up? As the Environmental Economic Council wrote in the report, which I also read to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht: However, there seems to be considerable scope for higher taxation in relation to the current level without hitting an unrealisticly high tax rate. So if you have a tax rate that is already too low, why do you make it so lower? Well, we have a treasury, a common box that we need to fund our society, our kindergarten, our educational institutions, our roads, our bridges, our railways, and we all have to contribute. And when there are some who pay too low taxes according to many, among others. The Environmental Economic Council, why do they have to pay an even lower tax? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180115	There may be many reasons why you think a tax is too high or too low. That depends on what one's objective is with the tax being paid. That is to say, if you like. making a comparison with the tax at work, there are some who think that the tax at work is too low, because people could pay more to the common fund, while others think that it should pay more to work and that we should therefore give the incentive to work more through the tax too. That is the way it can be seen in relation to the North Sea. We hope that gas and oil will continue to be extracted in the North Sea, including from the Tyra field, and that is where we think it is necessary to do so in order to get it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180150	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180152	But what we in the Enhedslisten want is a normalisation of tax conditions, so that the tax conditions for the Danish part of the North Sea are similar to those for Norway in the Norwegian part of the North Sea. It would be a huge step forward, it would be a normalisation of taxation. But we have a situation where the tax is grotesquely low in Denmark, and now it is even lower. We can do one of those things. see that the oil companies out there have earned many more billions after tax than originally provided for in the North Sea Agreement of 2003. We can see this from the answers to questions that we have received here in the Folketing. Then it is just that I do not understand why some who already pay so little that they have to pay even more must pay even less when normalising tax conditions would mean more reasonable and more tax revenue to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180242	Now it is relatively difficult to extract the last oil and gas in the North Sea and therefore the costs are relatively high. There you can say that it is different how high the cost of extracting oil and gas is, but that the price is typically the same. That is why it is the question whether we would then also have oil and gas extracted from the Tyra field in the North Sea if we did nothing. We don't think we would, and that's why we're making this deal and this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180309	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, now heading for the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180331	In April 2016, Mærsk issued a press release saying that large parts of the Tyra field would be closed down and large parts of the North Sea production would be closed down if an agreement on lower taxes or other benefits was not reached by 1 January 2017. One might then wonder a little about that when one among other things. can see what the tax situation is today. And Politiken could also report on November 24, 2016, that Mærsk and Dansk Undergrunds Consortium have earned at least 16 billion. kr. more in the years 2004-2010 than provided for in the 2003 North Sea Agreement. And this is certainly an agreement which already has very favourable tax conditions for the oil companies in DUC including Færsk. Politiken's calculations are actually conservative, because one can see in answers to questions that we on the Enhedslisten have put forward in the case that the profit for DUC after tax overall over the period running from 2004 to 2010 has been at least 10 billion. kr. kr. more per year after tax than originally foreseen in the period 2004-2010. After that, the figures have been closed down to the public, but there are other available figures that we still get, and that is among other things. on what state revenue from the North Sea is and they have increased. And it can be concluded from the figures that the favourable tax conditions that have existed between 2004 and 2010 have not become less favourable in the period from 2010 until today. I am just surprised that the majority of the Folketing is prepared to overlook a tax payment which is so low and so favourable to some oil companies when the money should properly be in the treasury by normalising the tax situation in the North Sea. Færsk has so desired and Mærsk has now sold the activities to Total; or wants to do so in any case that taxpayers had to pay for this tax rebate because oil prices, and that was one of the arguments according to Mærsk, have fallen more than expected. However, oil prices have not fallen, they have increased, and they are now higher than the basis of the North Sea Agreement when it was concluded in 2003 between the blue parties and the Radical Left. And in connection with the formation of the Social Democratic led government in 2011, S and SF joined the agreement. When the State entered into the agreement in 2003, the government considered in a memorandum to the Folketing that the oil price would be 22 dollars per annum. barrel rising to $36 per barrel. barrel in 2042 where the agreement expires. However, immediately after 2003, oil prices rose sharply, and for several years oil prices have been over $100 a year. barrel. The price of a barrel of oil today is about $50. It is therefore a relative, to put it nicely, imaginative use of facts when Mærsk claims that the company must have a tax discount due to falling oil prices. This case also shows how much power a company like Mærsk has and has had, among other things. in that the 2003 agreement of the North Sea Agreement also contains a tax clause which means that you cannot raise the tax for the company until 2042 without having to compensate Mærsk for the crown. It is a tax clause that is undemocratic because it binds future governments and a political majority up to 2042 and it is a tax rebate that is totally unacceptable. A tax clause of this kind is something that is usually seen only in weak states, not in countries such as Denmark. The tax clause is tailored to Mærsk and DUC, and it is so tailor-made that it does not even automatically follow when Mærsk sells to French Total. What exactly the conditions have been in the negotiations with Total, including the status of this tax clause, we do not yet know, and a meeting has been convened, a consultation in the Folketing here to sort out the technical details of this agreement, including how it might be, however, that this absurd tax clause has apparently moved on to Total, although the Danish State could have chosen not to pass it on or impose additional conditions to allow it to go further. In any case, it is unacceptable for taxpayers to have to go to their pockets once again to pay for tax rebates on taxes that are already too low in the North Sea. This is why the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180847	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180852	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is not so surprising that Enhedslisten is not so fond of oil production, and that is fair enough. Actually, I just want to ask Mr. Simpson. Rune Lund, what tax should be on. Because you can understand that it is far too low today and that it is almost theft to the Danish state. So what would the tax be on if it stood for the Enhedslisten, and what is it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180914	We have not settled on a specific tax rate, but we are listening to those people, among others. The Environmental Economic Council says that tax payments are too low and that there are significant opportunities to raise them without the tax being unrealistically high, so that we get a normalised tax payment out in the North Sea. There may be different conditions • geological conditions • in Denmark and Norway, different things, so we have not wanted to adhere to a certain tax rate. But I think it would be nice if, too, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær in this debate could admit that a normalisation of tax conditions in the Danish part of the North Sea would mean that the
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180955	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012180956	It is easy to stand and boast about saying that you have to normalise taxes, that they have to rise, and then you will get a lot of companies to produce anyway. But taxation is already 77 per cent. Well, you draw a picture of it, like they're basically getting it for free. The vast majority goes to the Danish Treasury. That's why it'd be nice to know if you're gonna have to go up to 90 percent. or 95%. I just think it's a little cheap to get rid of the fact that you stand and say that they pay far too low taxes and that the tax has to be much higher, but you can't make a bid about how high the tax should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181033	I think it would be very unwise for me, as a member of the Folketing, to make myself very clever about what the tax rate should be exactly to be normalized in relation to, for example, the United Kingdom. Norwegian standards with the different conditions that apply. I think it is important to take what the Environmental Economic Council says: "However, there seems to be considerable room for higher taxation in relation to the current level without hitting an unrealisticly high tax rate. There is a need for the exact percentage to be the one that I would like us to enter into some real negotiations, but the Folketing wants something else. After all, a majority in the Folketing wants to go the opposite way, to lower the tax. I find this deeply frustrating, deeply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181121	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181125	Of course, there is always some uncertainty when concluding agreements. After all, this is about how oil prices will develop and many other things. There is technological development in all sorts of other areas of energy. There are a lot of things that are involved here. You just have to acknowledge that. It is a little bit about trying to predict the future, and it is difficult, as you know, so you make some decisions on the basis of the information you have at your disposal. However, should this prove to be the case, and we must all hope that this is a good agreement and there will be 26 billion. kr. Into the Treasury because of this agreement, an agreement which Enhedslisten is so opposed to will the Enhedslisten refrain from spending the money and say: We were wrong; it must be the parties that have entered into the agreement, found the money, which will of course have the money at their disposal? That would be reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181222	I simply do not accept the premise of the question. No money has been found. There are billions of dollars that are given away in a tax rebate. I simply do not recognise the premise that oil and gas would not be extracted if this tax rebate were not granted when we have tax conditions in the North Sea, which are already extremely favourable, a tax payment that is already too low. So the whole premise that this extraction would only take place if tax conditions were relaxed is completely wrong. This is a fundamentally wrong assumption on which the questioner's argument is based. This isn't about more money coming into the Treasury. It is about tax rebates being given to some companies that already pay a tax that is too low if we compare it with a country such as the United Kingdom. Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181314	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Joachim B. Olsen further questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181318	Yes, there is then a discussion about this and it is a fair discussion about how the tax should be in relation to Norway. And it is true that the Environmental Economic Council has one understanding of it, while there are others who understand what has a different understanding and who say that you cannot compare the conditions in Denmark and Norway one to one. Then you might like to ask: Is a 77% tax? A low treasure? Most people would if they had to pay 77 percent. in tax, probably not thought was the case. But it just doesn't change the fact that this turns out to be a really good idea, so that we do these tax conditions that make it attractive to invest and get some more oil up, then there will be quite a lot of billions of dollars in the Danish Treasury. And then Enhedslisten must then be able to answer it and say if we say, for example. can see that in a few years the money will be paid back: well, okay, we won't spend the money, because we were wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181423	That is a strange premise. A tax agreement was drawn up in 2003, based on an oil price per year. barrel of $22 rising to $36 in 2042. In the meantime, oil prices have risen enormously. It's been well over $100. Right now it's about $50, and it's higher than the level it was supposed to be in 2042. We can see that the consequence of the rise in oil prices is that the oil companies in the North Sea earn so much money more than 10 billion. kr. a year after tax in the DUC than originally provided for in the North Sea Agreement for 2003, which is very favourable. So it is just one question: if you make so much more money than was originally provided for in the agreement, why is it that a tax rebate should be granted on top of that? That is simply what I do not understand. So it's about this oil, this gas, being extracted, whether you're making a new tax rebate or not, because today's tax situation is unfortunately far too favourable.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181516	With that, we thank Mr. Rune Lund. The next speaker is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181530	Thank you for that, President. The agreement, which is being implemented with this proposal, is really about giving DUC some major tax relief, against them, among other things. provides a renovation of the Thyra plants. Whether this is a good idea or not is basically not based on a political assessment. If in the long run the Danish state gets a big profit on this deal, well, then no one can argue that it was a bad idea to do this, then it must have been a good idea. And if the opposite is true, then, of course, one can argue for the other, namely, that it was a bad idea. It depends, of course, on a large number of factors, such as:: What would DUC have done in the absence of us making this deal? How will oil prices develop? How to become such general technological developments, etc.? As far as I am concerned, this is about making a decision on the best conditions available, and I also think it is reasonable that a mechanism has been put in place to ensure that if oil price developments are to be more favourable than applied, the DUC will have to pay back the money, and then the Danish Treasury will be the big winner. That is why, of course, we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181706	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012181715	In the alternative, we cannot support the draft law, and that is for the simple reason that giving operators in the North Sea more lenient conditions is not the direction towards a sustainable green transition. Having said that, I would like to say straight away that I am not the one who swings me the most into the lianes when we criticise Mærsk or other large companies here at home, unless there is something concrete to criticise them for. I would like to say here that it is often the legislation that makes it necessary to criticise the process that is taking place around the situation and the results achieved during negotiations with companies such as Færsk. Because if I look at what Mærsk and other large Danish companies have contributed, even when investments were to be made for really sensible social and sustainable purposes, it may be in fund work or other, then I do not stick myself in the eye and say that it is only to do a good job for Denmark; it is also done because one way or another you keep some money in the group and get a good brand and one way or the other. But I think it is important to include that weighting. When, in the alternative too, we are very keen on the criticism of the agreement that has been made with Mærsk here, I think that we are doing so, in the light of the relatively lucrative agreement that has been reached, by Enhedslisten's Rune Lund, I must say that, above all, we are doing so, in the light of the fact that after the relatively lucrative agreement has been reached, we are selling to Total. Then there is something in my understanding of what is in Danish interests that we legislate and we legislate for that is really challenged. I started by saying the appreciative words about Mærsk and other large companies that are given the opportunity by the state to create good things for Denmark, because I think there is a balance. But in this case, it is very clear to us in the alternative that we cannot support this at all. There we in other committees make even more of swinging all the way up where the green transition should be, and we look towards what might happen if Mærsk does not have such lucrative conditions. Because I think it is actually so good an organization that they are doing exactly what they are doing right now, namely looking at other markets. What does an organisation that is so hugely competitive and strong and that has such a solid volume when you have a country like Denmark with a good infrastructure and strong employees and good educational relationships to recruit from and a network around the world that is also good to use to form new companies? What you do is you start looking for completely new markets. That's what they're doing. That is why I hope that by sticking to sensible legislation, even if we want to get money in the treasury in this area now and here, we will see that the correct legholds actually seem as sensible to Færsk as to all sorts of others, in other words, we are offering them in the direction we want to move forward. That is why we say 'no' from the point of view of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182010	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There is one question from Dennis Flydtkjær, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182015	Thank you. The alternative will vote "no" in headlines because you want a green switch instead. I actually think there are many of us who would like to have a green switch, but vice versa, you also have to sail the ship from where it is. Well, you can dream that if you say no to this, we're going to have a green transition, and then we're going to produce it all with windmills, but we're not there now. We are dependent on getting some oil up, both for security of supply and for revenue, but also because we cannot deliver on all kinds of other sources of energy. So you can dream and say no, because we all want a green transition in the long term, but there is no ship now. I just want to know if the alternative recognizes that it's not that easy. We can't just turn off the tap tomorrow and say that it's the green switch instead. It's gonna take time. This requires setting up wind turbines and setting up solar installations and making more energy-saving measures and other things. That's positive enough, but we have to sail the ship from where we are, and we can't just turn off the tap there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182109	No, the green transition and sustainability are only really interesting when we are not going to provide subsidies for it anymore, and this requires technological progress and massive investment now and here. So I think that when we give a tax subsidy as this is and subsidise a popular black energy, we are slowing down everything else just the investment from the Treasury in the green transition. It's not because it has to be a either-or. What I am overjoyed about here is that we are giving relief in an area where there seem to be quite reasonable conditions. You're being pressured to give these reliefs, otherwise you wouldn't be able to use the field any further, and then we'll see the sales to Total. So the little snart of faith I had before, maybe as one of the only ones in our party, I must hurry to say so as not to take everyone else to income for the view that it may well be that this is right that it might be okay that it might be good, I guess I'm gonna lose. It's just a pressure ball to get even more financial gain out of an already quite profitable area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182212	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182213	But there is no question of subsidising a company. After all, there is still a 77 per cent tax. It is not the case that you give a huge subsidy, such as you. do to the windmills. It may be reasonable to do so, to get production going and to want more green energy. But this is the other way around, it's a source of revenue. If you hadn't done this, you'd have missed an incredible amount of billions of dollars, as I explained myself in my speech when we reach 2042. So it's easy to stand and dream of a green transition. But then all we need is an incredible amount of money, as you do, for example. so can not use for a green conversion or use on the Train Fund DK or anything else. It is a bit of an acknowledgement that we have to leave where we are today. Then we can dream of becoming less dependent on oil and gas, and I kind of share that dream, but there are just not yet, and that is why we need to make an agreement that will ensure that, after all, we have continued production, but where there is also a clause that they will then pay back the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182306	I think there are very few things in the world that are necessary, but I would acknowledge the rapporteur's argument that at least it is good money to get in the box. I cannot say that, in the short term, we would have got the same amount of money in the box by investing the amount we are giving here in terms of reductions. I know that there is a difference between subsidising and giving reliefs, but what we are giving in relaxations here, one could also imagine that the Treasury gave in support of initiatives which in the long term were much more interesting for Denmark. So I will try to present it in a relatively nuanced way by saying that I understand that you want to do so, but with the history we have and the massive financial revenues that Mærsk has obtained from the agreements that have been made in the course of history, I think we can see that there may have been other choices to make than those that have been made. I therefore believe that we would have been in a situation where something should have been extracted up there, despite our desire for a green transition, but on favourable terms for another company or the existing company.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182402	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182409	The agreement and the law here deal with the dilemma that we see in the Radical Left, namely that we want to get as much money as possible out of the North Sea for the Community, for society, and that at the same time there must also be the possibility that private companies will take the risk which is quite significant and which is also in trying to extract oil and gas in the North Sea. Denmark has an interest in getting the resources out of the underground that it is socio-economically wise to pick up. This revenue must be included in the budget. funding the green conversion, not least the Train Fund DK, and the green battle is also to stop the demand for fossil fuels at home, in the EU and at global level. As long as the demand is there, Danish production is probably among the least polluting, and therefore it is a good idea for Denmark to extract oil and gas. Therefore, it is also important for us to get into this North Sea agreement, that we still have to try to find the most effective solutions to extract oil and gas and thus extract the least possible CO2 We are convinced from the radical side that we will probably not have investments that we need if we had not made this agreement. We attached great importance to the fact that if gas and oil prices are rising, these companies will also have to pay more in tax, also in addition to ordinary taxation. As I started by saying, taxation of common resources is always a balance. We must ensure investment and those who are opposed to this agreement must then also answer where the money would come from, which, after all, we are getting into tax from this agreement. If there isn't an investment, we're gonna miss a lot of tax revenue. Overall, of course, the Radical Left supports the bill and the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182632	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182636	If, for example, we do not know what to do. based on the report of the Environmental Economic Council of 28 February this year, they state that overall taxation in the North Sea is characterised by two problems. On the one hand, overall taxation is too low, and on the other hand, taxation differs from the principles of neutral taxation of resources. They write: A natural starting point for a distribution is therefore that the part of the value of the resource that remains when the extraction companies have received a reasonable return on their investments should fall to the State. This corresponds to the fact that the so-called resources should be allocated to the state. Then they continue to write that it is not certain that it should then be 100 per cent. in relation to the money you make in addition to the ordinary earnings you can expect, but that there is considerable scope for higher taxation. And they specifically mention that this resource in Norway is about. 80%, while in Denmark it is approx. Seventy-one percent. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182744	[Sound emission]... it's the state that's taken the risk. If you look at the Danish model, where private companies have taken the risk, and compare with other countries that have the same model, for example. The United Kingdom and the Netherlands, our level of taxation is roughly the same. From our point of view, we would have liked to tax more and get more money into welfare or whatever else might be, but it is not the case that the debate has shown that there has been a desire to invest and extract this oil and gas with the level of taxation that was there. So if investment is going to come and we're going to get this revenue, we believe that this agreement was necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182828	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182830	One might also ask how necessary this agreement really was. We're talking about an amount of about. 5 billion kr. to the whole DUC, not only Færsk, in the period 2017-2025. This can be compared to the fact that Færsk sent 55 billion for the year 2015. kr. return to the shareholders in dividends. It was so a little bad in 2016, and I was out at the Bella Center myself, and there I noticed that 3 billion were sent for 2016. kr. Back to the shareholders. So you get a tax discount for the whole DUC, which is 5 billion. kr. from 2017 to 2025, and that might be 200-300 million. kr. A year to Færsk, while in a bad year 3 billion are paid out. kr. to shareholders in dividends. Against this background, one cannot ask whether this tax rebate was really needed, or whether the tax rebate had a different purpose, among other things. to prepare for sale in order to knock the price up ahead of a sale to French Total, which is also happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012182935	Thank you for your promotion to the Minister, but I am now rapporteur. I think Enhedslisten concentrates much on Færsk, also more than we do. After all, only 30% are owned by this consortium, so there were other investors as well. Feelings also make money on something other than oil, so that may be the reason for yielding. But for us, it is quite fair to make some money when you've taken the risk. It costs a lot of money to find oil and extract it, and it can go wrong, but then there can be an income. We don't think you would have gotten these investments if you hadn't made this deal, and then the Danish state and society would have missed out on a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183023	Thank you. I have no more on the list, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183037	Let me start out somewhere else than why SF is in this deal. We have always believed, and we still believe this, that the 2003 North Sea Agreement was almost worthy of a banana republic. It's not just something we say. In fact, several economists have said so. It is quite unusual in a western country to get an exclusive right so many years forward, where compensation is promised and where the resources are so relatively low. We have always believed that it was wrong to grant an exclusive right, especially for so many years to come. We have believed and still believe that, of course, resources should be at the level proposed by the SR government committee, the Petroleum Taxation Committee, in 2002 and 2003. Unfortunately, there was a change of government a month later, so the proposal that was on the table at that time to increase the resources to 84 per cent, which then also matches what is being paid in Norway, was swept off the table and replaced by another proposal that was drawn up by the Left and Conservatives and DF and Radicals. It's history writing. We believe that the agreement could and should be much better. Then why did we go along with this? Well, we are because, although we believe that Mærsk or DUC should pay for the restoration of the Tyra field ourselves, we have not been able to force them to do so. The threat that it would simply not be economically worthwhile to rebuild Tyra because of the cost was real. There we were faced with a dilemma which we were very open about: on the one hand, granting tax relief in the form of amended depreciation rules, etc. to some companies which we already thought were under-taxed or, on the other hand, to say that we would not be involved in that. Because then we could risk Tyra not being rebuilt, risk missing out on 26 billion. kr. We also have a railway fund which we would like to have financed and which was precisely linked to earnings from the North Sea. And there would be the risk, at worst, of being dependent on oil from countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia, etc. So I am not standing up here with a sloppy opinion that this is a fantastic deal, as other parties do. However, I am fully committed to making that agreement, as the advantages and disadvantages were weighed against each other. Because if the alternative was that we had said no to that agreement and had had a completely green and sustainable economy the next day, then of course it was better. Perhaps it would have been close to saying that then we simply have to refinance these things or finance them in another way or perhaps miss out on the 26 billion. kr. However, there is no response, especially with the government's lack of action in the area of climate and transport, etc. We do not want to add votes to anything to stop the green transition, on the contrary. So there were all those considerations. I think I have also touched on some of the things that Mr. Rune Lund also asked. But these have been real dilemmas. There have been things that should be weighed against each other. And in the end, we said: well, we are not going to have a completely sustainable green transition because we say no to this; then the oil will be picked up somewhere else in a less environmentally correct way. There is also a security policy in it. Then it may be taken from countries such as Russia, Saudi Arabia and other countries that we will not support. A very large billion is going to be missing, perhaps up to 26 billion. kr. etc. So we entered into the negotiations and said: then we will have an impact on how this is to be financed. It must be financed by the business community. And there were some areas that could be used for funding. Then, of course, you can take the view that it is reasonable for other parts of the business community to finance this. But that's another talk. I don't have any more time, but it's just to say that I actually have a pretty nuanced view of this. I do not think this is a very bad agreement; I do not think it is a really fantastic agreement. But from all the elements we entered it with our eyes open, and we are behind it. That is why, of course, we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183600	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183606	I therefore believe that there is one thing I basically do not understand, and that is that if the 2003 agreement was worthy of a banana state, how can a further relaxation in relation to that agreement be a good agreement? I simply cannot understand why you can have that logic, and I think the rapporteur has yet to answer that. So do I have another specific question which I hope the rapporteur can confirm for me, namely the slightly unfortunate confusion between this agreement and the Train Fund DK, because can we not agree that the Train Fund DK is financed by the fields outside the North Sea Agreement and that the North Sea Agreement, the exclusive right, therefore, has nothing to do with the Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183655	The latter is partly true, but as the rapporteur also knows, there have been some problems with the Train Fund DK, where we have among other things. had to find some money somewhere else, most recently with the 2 billion. kr. from the better and cheaper circle. We, who are behind the Train Fund DK, have given each other a hand in the fact that if the funding provided for in the agreement were not to live up to what was imagined at the time, alternative funding would be found. When the funding for this deal ends in 2025, there's running money in the box that isn't exactly labeled yet, that is, you have to go in and define what they're going to be used for at that time. The Government would very much have liked to have said that the money coming in after the expiry of the agreement should go to tax relief or business tax relief. We disagreed. We will spend it on green conversion, to finance the Train Fund DK, if anything is missing there, and the last thing is that we also got this with the 100 million. kr. in relation to green conversion. I missed the first question, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183815	The rapporteur remembers this at second round, that is, how this can be a better agreement than a 2003 agreement worthy of a banana state when it is a further relaxation. Then I just think it is important to make it clear that the financing of the Train Fund DK is via fields outside the North Sea Agreement. I just think we should make that clear, because this idea that this agreement could create some uncertainty in relation to the financing of the Train Fund DK has nothing on it. These are two completely different things, and the financing of the Train Fund DK has nothing to do with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183847	I would very much like to reply, but these are some very important questions that the rapporteur is asking. However, to come back to why this is a better agreement, I would like to say that I think it is a little remarkable that this agreement has given practically more debate than the 2003 agreement, in which it was possible to secure the framework for many, many years to come, in relation to what taxation should be, where there was a proposal on the table that the resources should be the same as in Norway. That's where the big deal was supposed to be made. Here we were faced with a choice, either Thyra may not be rebuilt, and otherwise it will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012183938	I would first like to say that I think it is very good that the SF is in this agreement. I think it is an expression of sitting at the adult table and helping to take responsibility for the Danish economy. However, I have to say that when, on the one hand, the rapporteur says that the SF believes that the tax is too low and, on the other hand, says that there was a real risk that the necessary investments would not be made in the Tyra field, the two things cannot be right at the same time; that is to say, they simply cannot. So it smells a bit like one way or another to say the right thing in relation to some of the many critics in SF's hinterland, in other words to be in this agreement, and on the other hand to say that there is a real risk that if you didn't make this agreement and lower the tax, then the necessary investments would not be made. But both things can't be right at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184046	Then maybe I haven't made myself clear enough. However, I think that these are two different things, because we can say that what we could have got in extra since 2003 with the proposal made by the Committee on Petroleum Taxation, with a resource tax of 84 per cent, would have been the right level of taxation. Sir. Rune Lund is absolutely right that the wise men have repeatedly said that it is undertaxed. It was up to now. Then we are now in a situation where the price of oil, which has fluctuated a lot up and down and at some point was over 100 dollars per annum. barrel, maybe 30, 40 billion. kr. We do not want to rebuild the Tyra field, it is simply too expensive for what we can get in. So I think these are two different questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184148	These are not two different questions. So, either you think that the tax is too low and that you should set up the tax, and that it is not a problem in relation to the reconstruction of the Tyra field. That is what Enhedslisten says, but I disagree with Enhedslisten. Or you think: No, there is actually a real problem here, and if we do not lower the tax, Tyrafeltet will not be rebuilt and the state will thereby lose some revenue, and we have to deal with that, which we do with this agreement. But you cannot mean both things at the same time; you cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184230	That's where we disagree. So, from the SF's point of view, we believe that the Tyrafelt should have been rebuilt by its own resources, with due care, that is to say that it was simply implicit in the 2003 agreement. Anyway, we can't control things with good morals. I realized that a long time ago in here, that is, what you think some people should do. Then we were faced with a situation where there was a real risk that the Tyra field would not be rebuilt, and there we have then made some changed depreciation rules etc., and that is in the form of loans. So I still think that these are two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184315	Thank you. Then we don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184325	Thank you. The aim of the draft law is to translate part of the North Sea Agreement, which in turn aims to ensure that the Tyra field is rebuilt, so that we have a basis for a two-digit billion investment in oil and gas extraction in the North Sea. It thus ensures Danish exports and tax revenue and Danish jobs in the longer term. This is happening at the same time as, in our energy supply, we become less dependent on imports from foreign states, which I think most of us do not want to support. From this point of view, we on the Conservative side are very much in favour of the North Sea Agreement and, of course, can also support the draft law. The Conservative People's Party is a great supporter of the green transition, and we have therefore also ensured that ambitious climate objectives have been introduced into the government base, which means, for example, that we have achieved this. e.g. by 2050 must be completely independent of fossil fuels. But we are only in 2017 and we are still dependent on oil, and we will be for a long time to come. If we stopped extracting oil in Denmark today, well then we would just have to import it, and that would then be an import from some regimes that I think we have no interest in supporting. With the North Sea Agreement, we secure 4,000 Danish jobs. We saw a happy mayor from Esbjerg who cheered just after the agreement was concluded, because the sector is really, really important for many Danish jobs and for Danish companies. The agreement guarantees a Danish tax income of 26 billion. kr. Towards 2042. In other words, it is an agreement that makes Denmark richer. In addition, a good balance has been built into the agreement, so that if the oil price rises, then the state gets the tax rebate back. On the conservative side, we think it is important that we keep our noses in the tracks and ensure that the green transition takes place as planned, but as long as we depend on oil, we think it makes very good sense to support Danish jobs and Danish production in the North Sea, and therefore, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184532	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184536	Then I think I'll ask you a few questions about these 4,000 jobs. I have also seen the figure, but I have not seen any evidence of exactly what these 4,000 jobs mean. Is it 4,000 jobs in Denmark? Is it over 10 years, or is it within 1 year? Will the majority of those jobs be elsewhere in the world where, for example, things need to be built or repaired for the platforms? That is one question. Well, what are these 4,000 jobs? Can we get a little more details on how these 4,000 jobs benefit Esbjerg? It stands for me completely in black mist talk. The second thing is that French Total, who is now going to take over this, has not actually wanted to guarantee that any Danish jobs will come out of this • no guarantee whatsoever. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184630	In relation to the 4 000 jobs, it is the mayor of Esbjerg who has spoken about it. I assume that it is jobs in the sector that sub-contractors and all sorts of others supply or have something to do with the oil sector. It's something that's spreading. It has an incredibly big effect out there in society when there's investment in this sector. Compared to Total, it doesn't change anything. The Danish state still receives the same tax income, so I do not see that there is the big difference. Extraction is still going to take place in Denmark and jobs will continue to be in Denmark. So I'm not so worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184710	How can you say 4 000 jobs when you cannot explain whether they are Danish jobs or foreign jobs, when you cannot explain whether it is one year or whether it is within 10 years, so that in reality it is only 400 jobs per year? I just have to say that I have not seen any evidence of the figure of 4 000. Then I would again like to comment on the fact that French Total is buying Mærsk's oil and gas division. In this respect, you have not wanted to guarantee the preservation of jobs on Danish soil, and what is the rapporteur's position on this? I would like an answer to that. Is it to run away from an agreement or an understanding which the rapporteur may think we had with Færsk, but which one obviously does not have with Total, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184754	I think the most important thing in this agreement is that it makes Denmark richer. It makes Denmark richer by 26 billion. kr., and it does, whether they're 30 percent. of the consortium owned by Maersk Oil are shareholders of A.P. Møller - Færsk or Total. That does not change anything compared to it, because it still makes Denmark 26 billion. kr. richer, and that is what we think is essential. We have to remember what the alternative had been. We could have been in a situation here where we had said that now we are doing nothing, but what had happened? Denmark would then have become poorer, so we would have become more dependent on imports of oil from outside, and we would have lost jobs. That is why we have concluded this agreement, namely to make Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184833	Thank you. Then there is no more on the list, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012184842	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the overall positive reception of the proposal and for the discussion that has taken place here today in the Parliamentary Chamber. This is not surprising because a broad agreement has been reached on political support for the North Sea Agreement. And why is there a broad majority for that? Well, it is there because it is important for companies making billions of investments in future oil and gas recovery in the North Sea that they know that there is broad and stable political support for the tax conditions of their investment. Otherwise, we will not get them to invest. The first part of the agreement is the implementation of a temporary tax relief for companies in the North Sea. These are some concessions to ensure that a two-digit billion amount is invested in oil and gas extraction in the North Sea, among others. by ensuring full and complete reconstruction of the Tyrah field. The government has a general objective that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels, i.e. coal, oil and gas typical. We have also put on years: 2050. It is, of course, a bit long-term, but it is also an ambitious objective. And until we are in the goal, it is in turn the government's wish that Denmark should be self-sufficient with fossil fuels as far as possible. There are a number of good reasons for this, and I would like to highlight them here when dealing with the legislative proposal. First of all, security of supply benefits that we in Denmark can continue to be independent of energy from unstable regions of the world, especially if we move a little more eastwards. Oil and gas production in the North Sea also creates many Danish jobs. And then that's right, as Mr. Beckett did. Rune Lund says that one can, of course, discuss how many jobs are involved, but that certainly creates some. And last but not least, oil and gas production in Denmark generates a large billion revenue for society and the Treasury. As Minister for Taxation, I attach great importance to the fact that the tax rules are designed in a way that best supports these three general objectives. When last year in the summer of 2016, it became clear that the Danish Underground Consortium, due to low oil prices, did not find it profitable to rebuild the facility on the Tyra field, nor was it a situation that the government could close its eyes to. That is why the government entered into dialogue with those affected by the new rules we are discussing today. The North Sea Agreement, and thus also the bill, temporarily relaxes taxation in what can be called an investment window covering the period 2017-25. Capital investment during this period will benefit from increased and accelerated depreciation, increased and accelerated deductions and increased and accelerated hydrocarbon deductions. It is temporary tax concessions to ensure that it is attractive for private companies operating in the North Sea and producing oil and gas extraction that it will be done in full in the coming years. The alternative is that the state is missing out on potential billions of revenue, as a number of rapporteurs have mentioned, and that industry is at risk of having to cut local jobs. The socio-economic balance is then ensured by the introduction of a special additional tax, which means that the advantage which companies derive from tax relief is fully or partially repaid if the oil price is higher than expected and expected. The second main element of the draft law is the abolition of the so-called VAT scheme, which is, after all, a financing we are relaxing for the North Sea. We will then finance it with the abolition of the VAT scheme or a large part of the funding coming from there. It was introduced in the 1980s to promote exports, and the scheme means that companies with negative VAT liability for a longer period are mainly exporting companies which can obtain an interest-free loan from the State. The economic situation today is fortunately, one can say significantly different than when the scheme was introduced. And I have also been informed by SKAT that other companies that are more at risk of bankruptcy than actual export companies are showing increasing interest in using the scheme. Therefore, there is indeed a risk of losses in the scheme. The scheme is also in danger of being exposed to fraud, among other things. Because, at the start-up stage, companies can obtain an amount on the basis of a budget and an expected negative VAT liability, and when the National Audit Office has also criticised SKAT's control of the VAT area, at least here, when we reduce and close the system, the possibility that some could use it unintentionally is removed. Overall, the assessment is that the risk of loss of the scheme is increasing, while the scheme is neither economic nor socio-economic. That is why we are proposing the abolition of the system per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official To ensure that all companies in the scheme are aware of the proposal, SKAT has recently sent out information to all the companies concerned. Finally, I can say that I am grateful for the debate that has taken place and, of course, I will answer any questions that may be raised here. This is, of course, a technical area, and I therefore fully understand that a large number of technical questions are being asked in the course of the committee's deliberations, and we will try to answer them both within the deadlines, but also fully, towards the second and third readings of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185404	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185408	I would like to try to dive a little into this with the fact that if this tax rebate had not been given, there would be no extraction in the North Sea. Well, we're talking about a tax discount in the years 2017-2025 on the vicinity of 5 billion. kr. ed to DUC. Feelings have 30 per cent. of DUC, so that's about it. One-and-a-half billion. kr. That's 1.5 billion. kr., which is to be spread over 9 years. If you do simple arithmetic, we're talking about less than 200 million. kr. a year. In 2015, Mærsk paid out 55 billion. kr. to shareholders in dividends. For the year 2016, Mærsk paid out 3 billion. kr. in dividends to shareholders. How much do these mean less than 200 million? kr. per year in the period 2017-2025 for Mærsk's ability and ability to extract raw materials in the North Sea in connection with the renovation of the Tyra field?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185510	Well, some of it, sir. Rune Lund says it's true, i.e. the extent and value of these lax tax conditions. I just don't agree with the basic preface, for Mr. Knox. Rune Lund's preface is that if we don't do this, they'll do it anyway. And the view of the Enhedslisten, as I understand it, is that taxation is far too relaxed in the old agreement. So Enhedslisten trusts that although we tax significantly harder, there will still be the same activity in the North Sea. And I fundamentally disagree with that. For the activity of these companies, including Mærsk Oil and some of the others operating in the Danish part of the North Sea, is based on a consideration that they live with a significantly lower return. And when you're a big company that invests, you keep up with each other the opportunities you have to invest, and you keep up with each other the reward opportunities. And when it is not lucrative to invest in the North Sea, investment moves elsewhere. And there is a risk of that, among other things. To cost us the 26 billion. kr. Towards 2042 which should enter if activity continues in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185617	What I am deeply opposed to is the fact that we have a tax agreement which provides tax rebates on taxes that are already too low. And then I ask the question: if this tax rebate is less than 200 million. kr. a year to a group that paid out 55 billion in 2015. kr. in dividends to shareholders, which for the year 2016 paid out 3 billion. kr. in dividends to shareholders, how can they less than 200 million? kr. So what is crucial is whether extraction activities in the North Sea can continue? That is simply the disproportion on which I would like to hear the comments of the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185652	So you can speculate a lot, and if someone had chosen the Enhedslisten model for taxation, you cannot know whether there was activity in the North Sea. I think it would have been considerably smaller than what we are seeing today, with considerably less revenue for the state. If you had made a less lucrative deal than the one we have made with the Danish Underground Consortium, would there be a full reconstruction of the Tyra field? Maybe not. Well, it's hypothetical and hard to know what would be the reason. The government has wanted reconstruction to take place, and that is why we have entered into a dialogue with those in the North Sea. And we have had confidence in what they have said about there having to be a sensible business and business case out in the North Sea, and we have thought that there was a need to support fiscally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185741	Thank you. Then there is no more on the list, and we thank the Minister. It looks like there's a desire for another round, and that's okay. With that. So we give the floor to Mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012185759	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to conclude by commenting on some specific claims that have been made in today's debate. There are, in particular, five allegations which I think require an additional comment. Claim No 1 is: Without the tax rebate, large parts of North Sea production would close. It's wrong. There are plenty of values in the North Sea and taxation is too low, it is not too high. You might also ask yourself how much they approx. 5 billion kr. for the years 2017 to 2025 really means when we saw that Mærsk for the year 2015 paid out 55 billion. kr. in dividends to shareholders and for the year 2016 approx. 3 billion kr. Claim No 2 is: Oil companies have to pay back their tax rebate with interest. That is a half and imprecise truth, because it only applies if the price of oil rises a great deal. And the tax rebate is a bird in the hand, while the refund is a bird on the roof for the Treasury. You might also ask yourself why you should give a tax rebate on taxes that are already too low. Claim No 3 is: If the oil companies do not pay back the tax rebate because the oil price does not rise, business pays. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned that claim. It's wrong. In this case, financing is dividends from the Growth Fund and the Export Credit Fund, which are returns from two state funds, a return which could otherwise have been used for other things. In other words, these are free funds which could have been used to recruit more educators or nurses. And even if that were true, why is it actually fair that other parts of the business sector should pay to Mærsk, who already earns plenty of a low tax payment? Claim No 4 is: Without an agreement, the Train Fund DK was in danger. It is simply a classic example of flagrant nonsense, and it is quite wrong. The train fund DK is financed by the fields outside the North Sea Agreement, and the North Sea Agreement has nothing, no statement no. 5, which has not been so much a part of the debate today, is: It will be more expensive to send out the extraction of raw materials than to let Mærsk do the job. No, it all depends on what conditions there are. Prior to the North Sea Agreement in 2003, the economic wise men recommended that the extraction be put out to tender, but as you know, this did not happen. What we should have said to Mærsk was: If you cannot deliver in relation to the current agreement where the tax payment is low, do not extract for us. And then the state itself could have taken over in the end, or you could have made an offer. We would then have obtained the extraction of raw materials in the North Sea without any further relaxation of taxation in relation to taxation, which is already far too low. I understand Færsk, for who would not want the Treasury to donate billions of dollars to one's business, but for all of us who have to pay over the tax, this is a scandalous deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190123	Thank you. There are no questioners on the list, so we thank the rapporteur. Then I would like to ask whether there are others who would like to speak here in the second round. That is not the case. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190144	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190220	Thank you, President. I am also the deputy rapporteur on this bill for our tax rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen. The proposal contains a number of minor initiatives in the motor sector and has become part of the agreement between the Government and Dansk Folkeparti in connection with the agreement on vehicle taxes of 21 September 2017. For the Social Democrats it has long been a priority to look at car taxes in order to promote a safer and greener car park. Unfortunately, the agreement reached on 21 September became far from as ambitious as we would have liked, and as there were clearly broad indications in the Folketing that one might have thought. But then there was the agreement that was reached, and unfortunately it was not a technical tax that could have ensured significantly more well thought-out car taxes for the benefit of both the environment and safety. Nevertheless, we take pleasure in the fact that the agreement actually reached was significantly better than the crooked proposal originally presented by the government. The specific legislative proposal contains a number of minor initiatives which form part of the agreement. It provides that the requirement for actual sleeping places for motorhomes to be reduced from four to two, a change in the taxable value of veteran vehicles, a rule that the use of test signs and test marks should be changed and that the rules on foreign exchange rental vehicles should be moved from regulation to law level. A public servant who is required to check or remove a vehicle as part of his profession shall be able to drive an unregistered vehicle. In future, the defence must be able to be authorised to register and unsubscribe its own vehicles from the Vehicle Register. And then there is the adjustment of tax rates on taxable gas. The Social Democratic Party has no comment on the specific elements of this bill and is sensitive to the purpose of the bill, which is: the draft law is generally intended to ensure that the rules in the motor sector are up-to-date. The draft law therefore contains a number of minor initiatives, all of which are in common, namely the removal of inappropriateities and barriers or simplification of rules. There is nothing of it in which we can see any problems, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190451	Thank you. There's no questioners. So we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And this is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190500	Thank you. As mentioned by the previous rapporteur, this is a bit of a collective law, which means that it contains a lot of different things and a lot of adjustments. And I think that can actually be quite good sometimes, so we do not have to sit and deal with five or seven different legislative proposals on the small things. However, I would just like to mention a few points of impact which I think are positive in the draft law. And that's one of them. the part about motorhomes, which there are not so many in Denmark, relaxing the requirements for the number of sleeping places, which are lowered from four to two. We think that makes sense. Another measure I would like to mention, which I really think is quite positive, is that of veteran vehicles, where the taxable value is set at the commercial price of the vehicle, however, max. 40% of the new price. It is, of course, to ensure a solution to the problem that exists today, where you can actually see that for a vintage car, which is 35 years old, you can pay something more in tax than for a similar car, which is a year younger and which is not a veteran car. It is quite illogical, and we think it is quite reasonable that Danes, who can have a good hobby in having an old veteran vehicle to drive a Sunday trip in or else, should not be ribbed with a very high tax which is not linked to the charge that you would have to pay if the car was just a few years younger and thus not a veteran car. So that is a quite fine change in the opinion of the Danish People's Party. Then there is another small thing which is actually quite reasonable. It is that the Minister is empowered to say that private operators can issue test marks, which is a good relief for the Danes. I am, for example. even from Herning, and if I'm gonna have a sample mark, I'm gonna have to drive to Aarhus after that. You can also order them online, but then it takes a few days, and I really think there are many Danes who will think that it is quite reasonable that you might be able to get it in your view or elsewhere that is closer. But there's also the positive effect in the fact that SKAT doesn't have a lot of expeditions where they don't have to sit and issue these sample marks. So in this way it's also a relief for SKAT, which can then use these resources on something else that could be some other control in this area. We think that is quite reasonable. One final point I would like to mention is that the defence can now register and deregister its own vehicles in the future, which actually makes quite good sense. So we have a single law with a lot of small adjustments that we all seem to be quite reasonable. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190732	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We now turn to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190739	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that this bill has nothing to do with the agreement we have reached on registration fees. Although this is a very good agreement, we will not deal with it until the autumn break. This bill was in consultation even before we started negotiating a new government tax. This bill, as the previous rapporteur has just said, is about relaxing the requirements for motorhomes so that they do not need four sleeping places, but only two. This happens in a way because there are many times four sleeping places, and the two people do not need them. They only have them for tax reasons, and it seems to be an inefficient use of resources. In addition, it is a matter of relaxing the rules in relation to the taxation of vintage cars in the hope that it can become a little more flexible. And then there are some rules for sample marks, which you try to standardise and simplify. So it is really about making things a little simpler and avoiding a waste of value that is not needed. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190845	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012190857	After all, this bill works as a draft law, which is technical and solves some things, so that they are done in a smarter and more sensible way. This may be in relation to camping cars, which have been mentioned in the debate, and perhaps also in relation to veteran vehicles, although we are going to ask some questions during the committee's proceedings about the reduced revenue there, because it is, as far as we can see, a reduction in taxes. There is one particular point that we will be looking at during the committee procedure, and that that the rate of taxable gas used or intended to be used as a motro fuel is adjusted so that in future the rate is adjusted to the rate of diesel fuel measured according to energy content. In any case, this is something we would like to look at in committee, for example. whether it is problematic from the point of view of environmental considerations. Then there is another thing that I might also think deserves a few words along the way, and that is that there are a number of areas in this which relate to section 43 of the Constitution, and it reads: "No tax can be imposed, changed or abolished without law; nor can any crew be printed or any state loan be admitted without law. When you read in the notes to the bill that we have to make some of these changes for the sake of the Constitution, the logical conclusion is that the Constitution has been violated for years. At least there are some things that it would be nice to clarify in this. How much money has been clawed in from the citizens, apparently contrary to Article 43 of the Constitution? At least there are some things there. When something has to do with the Constitution and there are some things we have to change because the Constitution requires it, I think it just takes a little more thorough consideration of the Folketing both in order to find out the extent of it, how many times it has happened, and also in relation to how many taxes and other things may have been collected on a seemingly wrong legal basis, as we can see when we read the comments. There seem to be a number of technical adjustments, and some changes are being made to ensure compliance with the Constitution. So there is a lot to be said for it to be voted for here, but we also have some questions in committee, and our final position on this bill will depend on what comes out in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191150	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191158	Thank you. The fact that registration fees give rise to a lot of problems, crazy rules, a lot of bureaucracy, etc. is well known and therefore it should be abolished, not least because it would be good for the Danes and for the economy. So now we are here with L 18, where we are trying to correct some of the problems caused by registration tax, but we are noticing some of the small problems, but problems which can mean a great deal to individual people, concrete people, in society. It acts among other things. on the fact that we will now change the conditions to benefit from the relatively lower taxation of motorhomes by reducing the condition of sleeping places in the RV from four to two. At the same time, SKAT will now also have the opportunity to give Karens in relation to people who do not comply with the conditions for test signs and test marks, and then with this bill we will ensure that for veteran cars you don't have to pay more in tax than for a commonly used car. The purpose of the special calculation of the tax base for vintage cars is precisely to ensure a particularly low tax, which is why it is of course not meaningful that in some cases it has proved to be higher. So the registration fee gives us a lot of problems, and some of them we try to address here, but of course we will never quite reach the goal until we have abolished the absurdly high registration fee in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191359	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191406	Thank you. The other times during the day that I have been up here in connection with package proposals, I have asked for technical reviews. However, I think this is within the limits of fairness, so I do not think I need it. The subject area is also the same. We are actually quite positive in the alternative to this proposal. This seems reasonable, and it is pragmatic solutions that are being proposed. In relation to the adjustment of the gas tax, we would like to look really deep into the Ecological Council's proposal, which would like to set out to exempt biogas, because it can go in and replace the use of diesel by heavy vehicles. There seem to be some challenges in relation to doing so. But the Ecological Council thinks so well. I myself am not keen enough on whether we can convince a ministry that this can be done because there seems to be a different conviction right now. But that is what we will try to look at in committee and possibly propose an amendment to the effect that we follow the recommendations of the Ecological Council and thus hopefully in the future can replace some of the heavy transport use of diesel with biogas. However, we are positive about the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191512	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we go further. The rapporteur on the Radical Left is not seen to be here. So we go further in the rapporteur's line and that is the SF's rapporteur, and that is Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012191540	Before going into my speech, I should like to say that I have been asked to greet the Radicals who support this proposal. But that doesn't bind the SF, I'd like to say. But now to my speech on behalf of the SF: we can easily see some advantages in this proposal, because that is not the way it should be. It is an advantage that gas as a propellant becomes cheaper than today. That is quite clear. Then it will be set up to correspond to the diesel. It's a truth with modifications, and I'll just come back to that. However, we would like the gas tax to be designed socially and socio-economically optimally so that we also support the transition to heavy-duty gas vehicles when we look forward to a future in which gas can be produced as renewable energy, unlike natural gas, and we will address that in committee. The latest Eurostat survey shows that the Danish transport sector is below the EU average measured on the RE share, and this actually gives a very good picture of how far we are still lagging behind in this area and how much challenges there are in transport. This summer, the Climate Council published a report on how Denmark is the easiest, cheapest and fastest to achieve the 2030 climate targets, i.e. the climate targets that we have in the area. It is not someone we have been charged with, but some we, as a Parliament, have actively said we would have. One of the key recommendations is to start the green transition in heavy transport, that is, where it does not yet make sense to be on electricity, but where it makes the best sense to stay on gas. Here the Climate Council concludes that it is socio-economically cheaper to switch diesel-powered trucks to gas-powered trucks than not to switch at all, and that point has been underlined by Ea Energy Analyses, which has estimated that the socio-economic gain by replacing a diesel-powered truck with a biogas truck will be approx. 40,000 kroner. annual. Before it becomes too boring with too many figures, I would just like to emphasise that the socio-economic aspect is not about the need to equate or even. However, it is, of course, a question of converting gas into heavy vehicles as soon as possible. The aim of this bill is, after all, to align the rates of diesel fuel and pure biogas for transport purposes. That is the purpose of this draft law and it aims to create a level playing field and to contribute to the conversion of heavy transport. Unfortunately, it happened this summer when we voted for L 210 and we are all accomplices to that, because we have all voted in favour of changing the fuel consumption base for gas-powered vehicles, which meant that the starting point for CO2 emissions was to be taken as a starting point, since gas vehicles need 10-15 per cent. More energy to drive 1 km than a diesel-powered vehicle, this change meant that gas vehicles were practically placed at a disadvantage than in the past, and even with this bill today it does not compensate for the distortion. The Climate Council has also highlighted in their recent report that there is a socio-economic gain of approx. 70 øre per. mileage for a truck that is switched from the diesel to the gas drive. The calculations thus show that the tax minister must listen because it is important for him that there is a positive government revenue effect of 37 cents per year. mileage. It is also a kind of money for such a shift. In short, we would like to challenge from the SF that there is real equality with this bill. We fully support the fact that this is a clear improvement, but we would like to go a little further in committee on the calculation methods. For it turns out that there is still a distortion, and especially when we look not only at the green gains, but the socio-economic gains, it is much cheaper that we get the heavy transport to gas more quickly. So it is both a good economic business, and we are also a little busy if we are to achieve the 2030 targets. So we will examine this a little further in committee. Either way, this is progress. We just do not think that this is as much progress as the draft law describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192059	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192108	The aim of the bill is to update a number of rules in the motor sector to ensure that the rules become more appropriate and are experienced more reasonably and flexibly by the citizen. A good example of such an appropriate update is, of course, the fact that the number of sleeping places in a motorhome is adjusted from four to two, thus giving citizens better opportunities to buy a motorhome if they, for example, do so. only need two sleeping places, against today, when the requirement is four. This will be seen by the citizen as a good and debureaucratic update of the legislation. In addition, the draft law proposes that the taxable value of a veterinary vehicle be set at the commercial price, subject to a maximum limit. 40% of the registration fee. This makes it so easier to calculate the tax on the vehicle. At the same time, it is also ensured that it does not exceed the maximum. We must be priced at a commercial level and therefore not be higher than conventional cars, which are not vintage cars, which is also the intention. So it is also a very good proposal. In addition, there are a number of minor initiatives, including: on test marks and tax exemptions for certain vehicles, etc. I will not go into that in detail, but just say that we naturally support the Conservative People's Party's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192233	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192238	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for agreeing to the bill from a large number of parliamentary parties. As several rapporteurs have said, it is, of course, a series of necessary updates in the field of motor vehicles to ensure that the rules are appropriate and fair, hopefully for the benefit of citizens, businesses and the public sector as such. The draft law contains a number of perhaps minor initiatives, but it does have in common that they can have a major impact on the individual. And I think it is important and, to that extent, also necessary that we not only devote our energies to the major fiscal issues, but also have our rules reviewed from time to time to see whether they continue to work properly or whether they can be adjusted for the benefit of all. That is why I am very pleased that the legislative proposal reduces the requirement for sleeping places in motorhomes from four to two, so that we have more standardised rules. Today it is the case that most motorhomes sold in Denmark are equipped with four sleeping places instead of the two with which they are supplied from the factory, and we should be wary of making such special demands. So such a change is for the benefit of the citizen who only needs two sleeping places but who would otherwise have had to buy a motorhome with four sleeping places for tax purposes. I am also pleased that with the bill we are adapting the rules on test signs and test marks and that we are adjusting the taxable value of a veteran car so that as a citizen we do not risk paying registration fees for a higher tax base than the general rules on used cars. In particular, the test signs and test marks have been the subject of a lot of debate, which is why we are responding to those who have wanted a more lenient practice. I also think it has to be said that there has been a slightly uneven practice in relation to a part of this area, which is, moreover, an area which has not always been the subject of the SKAT area, but has previously been the subject of the police. There you have seen a number of areas and I think you can also see the outlines of here that it can vary slightly from department to department, from police circle to police circle, how you understand the rules. But SKAT has then taken over the task, and now we also have a solid legislative basis to stand on and a uniform practice, but let us not forget that there is room for those who need test signs and test marks to have access to them on a reasonable basis. In short, I am satisfied with the legislative proposal that we have tabled otherwise we would not have tabled it either. And I'll be happy to answer any questions that may be asked. I should just like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Rune Lund, who may give the impression that this was a major violation of the Constitution or a major breach of the Constitution. Sir. Rune Lund has been in the bill on page 7 and read about it, and that is fine, but the fact that something is now being moved from regulation to legislation is not necessarily the same as the fact that the rules are contrary to the constitution. This is only an expression of the need to exercise the utmost vigilance when it comes to the constitution. So it's to wear a belt and braces, if you like. The draft law on page 7 of Section 3.3.2 also states that this constitutional position concerns the use of test marks and test marks, and what has been proposed here does not, I believe, concern the fact that some people have paid too much, but more the practice of handing out test marks and test signs to some people who then do not pay registration fees in whole or in part. When you give people such an opportunity to drive around a car under specially limited conditions without paying a tax, this is a discrimination against others, and you can argue for such discrimination if you have to wear a life strap and seat belts. And that's what we're gonna do this way. I don't think so, but we would like to reply to that in committee that this is a major breach of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192659	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192706	Thank you. The Minister of Taxation acknowledges the recommendations and calculations that have come from among others. The Climate Council, on the socio-economic gains by switching from diesel to gas? That is one question. The second question is: Does the Minister acknowledge that this is not a charge, because we have all been involved in deciding that the picture is distorted by whether you measure in relation to CO2 emissions? If so, you get a different picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192745	I acknowledge that last one. On the first point, I must be honest and say that I am not aware of the conditions underlying the recommendations of the Climate Council. I am, of course, following what the Climate Council recommends and the agenda they are pursuing, but I think that the questioner should put the question in writing, so we should be happy to answer it. That is also why I am not dealing with it in my ministerial response to the draft law here. I would like to reply in writing to that, but yes, I recognise that there is a difference between CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192820	Thank you. The second question was whether the Minister recognizes that, no, that is what I asked from the platform, sorry, it is a little late, whether the Minister has indeed replied indirectly to it, namely that it is a different picture, depending on how to calculate it, and that in this way one can also say that when writing in the bill, that one now wants to equate or even gas and diesel, it is a picture of modifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192903	As part of a question to the draft law, I would like to examine what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned in her rapporteur's speech, in other words whether this is a proper equality of treatment, and what calculations and assumptions have been made. Then we can take the political debate in the Parliamentary Chamber during the second or third reading or in the Committee on Taxation. After all, some assumptions and calculations are being made, and that is where we believe that the Ministry of Taxation has a solid basis to stand on, but it is, of course, fair to challenge it, and I would like to share this in the committee's examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192935	Then it's mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012192939	As I have said, we are generally in favour of the bill, but I would like to hear from the tax minister whether something new has come up in relation to the difference that seems to be between, that the Treasury does not consider that it is possible to exempt biogas because it is simply not possible to measure the amount in the network and that the Danish Energy Agency's background report actually indicates that there should be no problem in that. It may be, it is a question that must also be put in writing, but it is the basis of an amendment that we are proposing that we want to exempt biogas from tax in order to follow up the good direction that is in this. Of course, it requires that it is possible, but does the tax minister know if anything new has been put on the track in the Treasury Department, so you think it is possible, just as the Danish Energy Agency believes it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193019	Well, I can say to Mr. Knox. René Gade that the government also has a desire to support other fossil fuels and support renewable energy and biogas and biofuels. I can declare a political agenda which is the same as that of the alternative some way along the way, but I cannot respond to what is specifically being asked. But I would like to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193048	That will just be a comment, because we are often critical of the use of biogas, because we do not think it is necessarily the right way to switch to it. However, in relation to heavy transport, I have learned that this is actually quite sensible. So that is why we are asking the question and the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193103	We can all learn. This can be done in particular as a tax minister, and I look forward to learning from the committee's examination of the proposal, which I hope will lead to a broad majority in the Folketing voting for it at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193115	Thank you, then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171012193129	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 13 October 2017 kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
