ParlaMint-DK_20170119100014	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100026	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100051	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 23 of Karina Adsbøl (DF), Troels Ravn (S), Carl Holst (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Orla Østerby (KF). It is possible to vote, and it has really helped to be quiet. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 23 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 24 of Pernille Skipper (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100247	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100306	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I don't know if the microphones work, but we can pretend they don't, because then nobody makes so much noise, so it's nice. But it's possible to vote. It's a vote. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100336	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100357	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100424	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100439	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100508	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to comment on the amendments? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100538	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of a minority (DF and EL), joined by a minority (ALT), as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100555	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119100609	As you know, the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten have tabled amendments to the original proposal to stop accession negotiations with Turkey, so that the proposal we are now considering is in line with the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 24 November 2016. On that occasion, the European Parliament decided to call on the Commission and the Member States to take steps to temporarily suspend the current accession negotiations with Turkey. In the same resolution, the European Parliament strongly condemns the disproportionate repressive measures taken by Turkey since the failed military coup in July 2016. The European Parliament also undertakes to review its position once the disproportionate measures in the state of emergency in Turkey have been lifted and will, as stated in the adoption, base its review on whether the rule of law and human rights are again respected throughout the country. I must stress that in the European Parliament, with the exception of Jens Rohde, who was not present at the vote, all Danish Members voted in favour of the decision to call on the Commission and the Member States to suspend the accession negotiations temporarily. The Left's European Parliamentarian Morten Løkkegaard, former colleague here in the Danish Parliament, said in a comment on the vote on Politiken: "We must speak clearly now in a language Erdogan understands. You have to be careful not to show weakness. I fully agree with Morten Løkkegaard on this. A clear signal should be sent to Turkey that a prospect of becoming a member of the European Union cannot be maintained if freedom is not respected and respected. That's where we are. We have seen how NATO generals have applied for asylum in Belgium because they are afraid of Erdogan. We have found that since 20 July 2016, there have been over 45,000 military personnel, police officers, judges, governors and civil servants who have either been suspended or arrested. 163 generals and admirals corresponding to 45%. the Turkish military has been detained as a whole. Turkey has had to empty its prisons in order to accommodate the many detainees. We have seen how a political party, HDP, has had MEPs arrested and really can no longer work democratically. We have seen how actors, social media players, have been detained. It is hardly possible to describe the conditions in the wake of the attempted coup as anything other than a manifestation of paranoia or a carefully orchestrated attempt to put an end to any political opposition. As I said, Morten Løkkegaard said that we must speak in a language that the Turks can understand. Turkey, however, did not understand the message from Parliament, because the Turkish President Erdogan knows that this resolution has no real impact on Turkey's accession negotiations, because this is a matter for the Member States. That is why Erdogan also said in the usual provocative style prior to the vote, and I quote again: regardless of the outcome, this vote has no value in our eyes. We have made it clear over and over again that we take better care of European values than many EU countries do. However, Morten Løkkegaard was by no means the only MEP who wholeheartedly advocated calling on the Commission and the Member States, including Denmark, to stop the accession negotiations. Christel Schaldemose of the Social Democratic Party said to the Ritzau Bureau before the vote: the development in Turkey is worrying. In many ways, basic human rights are challenged. By freezing the negotiations, we are getting a signal. Against this background, I can understand that neither the Social Democrats nor the Liberals intend to vote in favour of the exact same vote in the Danish Parliament, which both the Social Democrats and the Liberals supported in the European Parliament. As you know, the European Parliament decided, with the support of all Danish parties, to call on the Member States to stop the accession negotiations. Now we stand here in Parliament and have the opportunity to follow that call, and then the Left turns on a plate. Social democracy turns on a plate, Radical Left turns on a plate, Conservatives turns on a plate, and Socialist People's Party also turns on a plate, we do not know, but we will probably find out soon. If one wonders at the origin of the politician in this honourable House, one might well look at a matter such as this one. How can one think of one in the European Parliament and the exact opposite here in the Folketing? I am certainly not the right person to give an answer, but I wonder if the answer is that the vote in the European Parliament was a signal policy, to stay in Christel Schaldemos's jargon. I think that a number of the parties that are turning on a plate today are criticising other parties, including the parties behind the amendment, for precisely signal policy. The fact is that the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 24 November, as Mr Erdogan rightly points out, is meaningless if it is not followed by action by the parties that the European Parliament calls for to act, namely the Member States and the Commission. Nor do I need to remind the honourable Members of this high point of what was said after the attempted coup in Turkey. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, on behalf of the Left, was recommending a definite end to the accession negotiations. He was then later corridated by the then Foreign Minister, but no one corrided Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance for in a ritzautelegram on 21 July 2016 under the heading "LA' will stop Turkey's accession to the EU" to say: "It is completely unheard of that one starts firing judges. Turkey has made it completely impossible to continue the accession negotiations with the European Union.• What has changed for the Liberal Alliance since the statement by Mrs Mette Bock? Or for the Conservatives, where Mr. Nas Khade on 14 August disagreed smokingly with the government's unwillingness to criticise Turkey and in Jyllands-Posten called for negotiations to be stopped: it is the whole package that makes Turkey no longer fit to be a country to negotiate with EU membership. The country is not worthy of this. I agree with Mr. Nase Khader in. But why is Mr. Does Khade no longer agree with himself? Should the Turkish President Erdogan really be right in saying that the vote which the European Parliament held on 24 November has no value, simply because the same parties as the European Parliament, with words and deeds, supported the European Parliament's call for the Member States and the Commission to temporarily stop the accession negotiations, not here in the Folketing will vote to temporarily halt the accession negotiations? There are indications, but I have to say that this again shows that sometimes there is more talk than action among politicians. When we can adopt a resolution in the Mickey Mouse Parliament in Strasbourg which is legally irrelevant if it is not followed by decisions at national level, and if the very same parties who voted for this resolution in the European Parliament vote against the same resolution in the Folketing, where we can actually equip the Minister with a mandate on how to act, it can hardly be anything other than hypocrisy and opportunism. We take the cheap points home in the European Parliament and then we reveal ourselves in the Folketing. In the European Parliament, the Social Democracy, the Left, the Radicals, the Conservatives and the SF voted to call on the Member States to take steps to temporarily suspend accession negotiations with Turkey. In the Folketing, the very same parties vote against following their own request. This does not increase respect for politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119101508	Thank you. And there are several rapporteurs. It's first, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119101523	The situation in Turkey is currently completely unacceptable. Tens of thousands of judges, journalists, professionals, teachers, academics, elected mayors and parliamentarians are in prison. The leaders of the leading opposition party, HDP, are in prison. Both the male and the female president are in prison. Together, they stand at 225 years in prison. Their only crime is to have used their freedom of expression to encourage peace and democracy. One of the charges against the male president of the HDP, Selahattin Demirtaş, is so absurd that it says that his crime is to have called for solidarity in the fight against IS in Syria. It is evident that standing together in the fight against the IS in Syria is a criminal offence in Turkey today, which provokes President Erdogan. Similarly, the Armenian parliamentarian Garo Paylan from HDP is in prison because last week he mentioned the Armenian genocide in the Turkish Parliament. That's why he's going to jail now. Against this background, frankly, I think it is absolutely absurd to continue the accession negotiations with Erdogan on EU membership. That is why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support a suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed. In the Enhedslisten, we will not stop the accession negotiations permanently or forever. That is why we tabled the amendment which has just been adopted. Like a majority in the European Parliament, we will suspend accession negotiations until democratic rights are restored. To be honest, it does not make sense to negotiate membership with a country in which democracy is short-circuited. The Austrian Parliament has taken a similar decision. I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party and the Alternative support this proposal, and I have to say that I wonder if the rest of the Danish Parliament too can support it. Can you really support the continuation of negotiations on accession to the current situation? In particular, I would like to call on the SF, which I know will speak in a moment, to take the floor and say what they think. They have stated in the past that they were open to supporting this proposal. I hope they will put action behind the words. But I would also like to call on Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen to come to the floor, because at first reading I was very much surprised that it sounded from the Socialists as if it were open to supporting this proposal for a temporary suspension. I thought that was a real position, it was a positive one. Now I understand that the Social Democrats will vote against the amendment. I hope that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will come to the platform to explain why you are no longer open to a suspension. As I know, since first reading, the situation in Turkey has only got worse. It may be that I have overlooked something that has happened in Turkey, because then I would very much like to hear about it. But when we find ourselves in a situation where the Armenian genocide last week was mentioned by an Armenian-Turkish parliamentarian and he is now in prison, I see it as nothing more than a deterioration. When the leaders of the largest opposition party have come to 225 years in prison since first reading, solely on the basis of having used their freedom of expression, then I find it very, very difficult to see the improvement. But I hope that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen can come to the platform and make me wiser in this matter. Honestly, I have to say that this is crucially important. There are a great many international cases where we in the Folketing do not have much influence, but exactly in relation to Turkey we actually have an influence. Because if we in Denmark follow suit with the Austrian Parliament, if other parliaments do the same, then we can suspend accession negotiations with Erdogan because of his repression and until this repression ends, and thus put pressure on Erdogan, we can put our foot down against the repression that is taking place. I would urge the Folketing to take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102029	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. And then, sir... René Gade asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102052	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of my colleague Rasmus Nordqvist, who has been in the debate so far in this area. For us, it is essential to say that when we choose to back it is precisely because it is a suspension of the negotiations. We will by no means stop negotiations with Turkey. We think it is very, very important that we maintain dialogue and constructive contact with Turkey, despite the absurdities which, among other things, have arisen. The Enhedslisten sketched out just before. It also means that we must not press for what is too hard for human rights to be broken and on a daily basis things are happening that we simply cannot accept, even in the European Parliament. We are following the European Parliament's proposals and want to freeze the negotiations, but they must be so ready to resume. And then you can further comment on whether we have put ourselves in the right situation by giving Erdogan such a strong role as we have given him in relation to the refugee issue, where much has been placed our authority in his hands. We think that this should be reconsidered, but it is a different debate. So we support the proposal for a freeze, but by no means an end to the dialogue with Turkey. It will be an important player in the future, and geopolitically it is simply too unstable to have such a large country that we cannot talk to. So that's our attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102239	It appears from the report that we will explain our position here at second reading, and I hereby do so. We do not agree with the Danish People's Party in their attitude towards Turkey and the European Union. The Danish People's Party is in principle opposed to Turkey becoming a member of the EU, primarily because it is a Muslim country, and the Danish People's Party does not want any more Muslims to join Europe. This is basically what the Danish People's Party is about. In fact, we believe that it would be a good thing and could be important if a democratic Turkey, which meets all the requirements that must be met in order to become a member of the European Union, were to become a member. So that is our basic attitude towards Turkey and the European Union. But it is also the case that there have been very violent democratic steps backwards in Turkey, especially after the attempted coup d'état which we saw last summer. We need to respond to this too by Europe. It is not because it is an easy situation for Europe, but we have to respond to it. It would be wrong to suspend the negotiations altogether. That is what was in the original proposal of the Danish People's Party, and we could not have supported it. But with the amendments that have been tabled, it is something else that we are talking about now: it is a temporary suspension of negotiations until democracy in Turkey is restored. That is a way of saying to Erdogan: listen, we are still willing to talk more, but that presupposes that you in Turkey meet the requirements that must be met in order to become a member of the European Union. I think it is important to have that pressure on Erdogan on the part of the European Union, and that is what is being proposed through this new proposal after the amendments have been adopted. That is also in line with the European Parliament's position on it, and that is why I think it would be natural for us here in Parliament to support that position. So I can say that the SF supports the proposal after the amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102447	Thanks to the SF. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102451	In fact, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's party, for it is the only party besides my own, the Danish People's Party, where there is a match between what has been voted in the European Parliament and what is voted in this Parliament. I think that is welcome, and I think that is good. It's nice that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and Margrete Auken are on a better wavelength than the other parliamentary politicians are with their MEPs. What I just wanted to ask, sir. Holger K. Nielsen to, in fact, was what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen began by saying, namely, that the Danish People's Party is opposed to the accession of Turkey because Turkey is a Muslim country. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen is certainly aware that the EU rejected a request for membership from Morocco some years ago. Turkey is, of course, mostly not a European country because it is not on the European continent, but I would really like to hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's position on the question of where Europe's borders are. So what kind of countries do you think Mr. Mr Nielsen. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Where's the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102557	Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102559	First of all, to the question of consistency between the European Parliament and the Danish Parliament: I think that the Danish People's Party will have greatly denied that what you do should be in accordance with all that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has done down there; I must say so. I think it is very pleased that there is not always agreement between what is happening down there and what is happening here in the Folketing. However, with regard to Morocco and Turkey, I can say that Turkey is a European country. Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and Turkey, even here in Europe, is seen as part of the European Community. It is true that there is a limit, there is some of what is perceived geographically, and others do not. But Turkey is perceived as a European country, and that is also why there have been these negotiations between Turkey and the European Union over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102648	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102649	Now I don't know from where, sir. Holger K. Nielsen believes that he has the view that Turkey is a European country. I am well aware that Turkey has once been part of the Melodi Grand Prix, and that Turkey is also part of the UEFA and so on, but if that is the basis, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen uses to assess whether the countries are European or not, Israel is also a European country. And then I'm gonna have to ask sir. Holger K. Nielsen: Is Israel welcome into the EU after Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's perception?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102721	I do not believe that Israel is a member of the Council of Europe, at least not as far as I know. They're in the UEFA and in the Melodi Grand Prix, that's right, and I'm not gonna know why they're in there. But Israel is not a European country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102737	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102752	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 67 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102838	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119102901	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 35 (S and RV). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? The proposal is adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103012	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103046	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. There is a rapporteur on the platform now. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103120	Thank you. L 110 creates the legal basis for Denmark to accede to the International Hong Kong Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships. Up to 70%. of the world's ship recycling takes place in third world countries, so global rules in this area are absolutely essential to ensure that ship recycling takes place in a sound manner. Unfortunately, this is far from being the case today, when beaching, that is to say scrapping directly on the beaches of workers wearing bathing sandals, in India or Bangladesh or Pakistan, for example, each year costs hundreds of poor workers their lives and causes massive pollution of both the beaches and the marine environment. Ships are scrapped to recycle materials, among others. the valuable steel and, unfortunately, the dynamic is that the less consideration is given to the health and environment of the scrapping yards, the cheaper they can scrap the ships and the higher the price they can offer to the ship-owners for the steel. That is why global rules are needed, which set a lower limit on how miserable conditions scrapping yards can offer employees. The Hong Kong Convention requires ships to have on board a list of hazardous materials designed to identify a number of hazardous materials forming part of the ship's construction, in the ship's equipment, their location and then an indication of the approximate quantities in which the hazardous substances are present. The inventory provides an overview of the hazardous materials in the particular ship, so that the materials can be properly treated in connection with scrapping. The Convention also lays down requirements for scrapping yards for the management of hazardous waste and for the use of safety equipment for the workers who do the scrapping. The entry into force of the Convention requires, inter alia, the accession of at least 15 countries whose combined merchant fleet represents at least 40%. of the gross tonnage of the global merchant fleet. This will take place at the earliest in 2020 and probably significantly later. So far, only five countries, namely Norway, France, Congo, Belgium and Panama, have acceded to the Convention. The social democracy supports Denmark's accession to the Hong Kong Convention, and we generally call on the government in the EU to work to ensure that the EU contributes to raising standards in scrapping yards worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103400	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103412	Thank you. I think that we have a small problem with the fact that this regulation will not apply until 2020 at the earliest, that it will only apply, just as it will only apply if there are a number of countries joining it. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is no way that we can discuss through the committee procedure whether we can help to make some toughenings at EU level, which will enable us to ensure that more Danish ships are thus scrapped in the European Union in an environmentally sound manner, and that could be a road which could, as such, be complementary to this Hong Kong Convention. Well, I think that would be worth going for. Is the rapporteur positive that we are discussing whether this is an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103455	I think this is a very relevant question and I very much agree with the questioner. We would like to discuss whether initiatives can be taken in the EU or Denmark, which means that we contribute to the dismantling of Danish ships and European ships under sound conditions. I would very much like to discuss this when we get to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103515	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103517	I am looking forward to that committee's consideration so that we can arrive at the working conditions surrounding ship recycling that it does not take place in bathing sandals on the beach in some country in Asia. I think it really is incredible that we cannot come up with anything where the scrapping is done in a controlled way in a dry dock in Europe somewhere and use smart technology as much as possible, instead of people in bathing sandals who have to put their lives at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103541	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103543	I might add that, as the questioner probably knows, there have been a number of articles in Politiken which have revealed these horrible conditions on the beaches of Asia, so I share the rapporteur's view that we need to do something about this area. There are both regulations on hazardous waste, which are now partially regulated, and there is currently a discussion on the EU white list of shipyards that European shipowners may use. So there is ample opportunity to continue this discussion in the European Union, in parallel with the Hong Kong Convention, hopefully, being implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103624	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119103632	Thank you. The legislative proposal is about giving the authority to say yes to the Hong Kong Convention and also to have it implemented. This is an environmental and sound scrapping of ships. The aim is to prevent, reduce, minimise and, if possible, eliminate accidents, damage and other adverse effects on human health and the environment. When I read it, I thought, yes, we're covered, because that's all the words you use here. What is good about the Convention itself and also one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party supports it is that it is a convention that I hope very many countries will support, so that it becomes a global agreement. Of course, we need to have a global agreement when it comes to an industry that is also global and where things can take place around the world, and then it is important to make an agreement that can also bring as many people along as possible. In addition to that, there is this ship recycling regulation in the European Union, which is also under way, and a list of the places you can use when you need ships to be scrapped, so that it is done in an environmentally sound manner. That is probably what I think is the main thrust of this, namely that we have made places where we can scrap the ships, so that it is done in an environmentally sound way, also in relation to the working environment, because it is at least as important, I think. I say this in connection with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's, earlier comments. I also think that what is in the Convention, namely that ships should have a list of what might be of dangerous materials, so that, of course, measures can be taken when ships are to be scrapped, are important. There must be certificates which the Danish authorities must now accept if there are foreign certificates. So far, that's fine, too. The Minister for the Environment is then authorised to tell ships that they may either not move on or that they may not call at Danish ports. Personally, I am not in favour of authorizing ministers to do much, but I think this makes sense and I do not think we should have it down to the Parliamentary Chamber every time a ship arrives, if there are any problems, that must be the responsibility of the Minister. So it also makes quite sense. It can be said that when we now accede to such a convention, it makes quite good sense. What may surprise me a little is that, as I see it, there are in fact some more far-reaching rules in the Convention in relation to the ship recycling regulation. I can see that the Minister is nodding, so that is also rightly understood. One might wonder whether the ship recycling regulation is not more restrictive, but one can then work on it. In any case, it can be said that when the regulation is there, it is the rules that are directly applicable, but in order for there to be no doubt, then I think it should be in the best way possible in terms of ship recycling and in terms of the environment, both in terms of work and the environment. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104013	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104026	Thank you. The draft law here, L 110, amending the Law on the Protection of the Marine Environment, the Law on Protection and the Law on Safe Seas, will, of course, also vote in favour. The proposal must, as has already been said, ensure the implementation of the Hong Kong Convention, which must ensure that the people who work with the scrapping of ships and the environment are properly dealt with. As has also been said, up to 70% are going on. of the world's ship recycling in so-called third world countries, and therefore it is absolutely essential to have global rules in this area if we are to ensure that ship recycling takes place properly. It is almost sad to see the situation in the shipyards in Asia, as we have seen, how many ships are being scrapped. A small part of the ships operating in Denmark are scrapped at home, but most of them are also sent to shipyards in different countries in those areas, among others. So India, China, Turkey. On average, it is approx. 10 Danish ships that are scrapped each year. In the Left, we believe it is important for Denmark to accede to the Convention, thereby helping to ensure that ships that are lost do not lie and pollute on the beaches of third world countries. We have a responsibility for that. At the same time, we believe that with this bill we are helping to send a strong signal also to other countries about the importance of protecting both the marine environment and the people who work with it. Unfortunately, ship dismantling can be a dangerous affair, and with this bill we express our wish that the working conditions of the people employed in the industry should be improved. Ships must be safely removed and we must minimise the risk of accidents and damage to human beings and the environment in connection with ship recycling. With these words, of course, the Left supports the proposal and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104230	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104235	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that the Hong Kong Convention should be adopted. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there is no possibility of us trying at EU level to work further to ensure that there can be some ship recycling that is taking place in the European Union and is taking place under controlled environmental conditions. I'm one of them. Knowing that people in Grenaa are quite skilled at separating smaller ships, and why should we not be able to conclude that large ships can also be separated responsibly in a Danish dry dock and thus create jobs in Denmark? I would like to know whether the rapporteur sees any possibility that we will continue to work on making improvements at EU level before the Hong Kong Convention can enter into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104316	As the rapporteur's speech and the background material show, it is important that this should be a global, international agreement. However, if there could be, if I may say so, influences in order to get more countries to join more quickly, that would only be a good thing. Well, that's kind of what's in it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104349	The Unity List supports Denmark ratifying the Hong Kong Convention. This is an important step towards achieving a more responsible scrapping of ships for both people and the environment. The current situation, in which ships, including Danish-operating ships, are being scrapped in shipyards and beaches in India, China and elsewhere in Asia under questionable conditions, needs to be changed so that it is stopped. After all, the Convention will, globally, improve the safety and environmental conditions of ship recycling facilities around the world. However, Enhedslisten would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the level of regulation of scrapping facilities globally must continue to be lifted very significantly in order to be reasonably close to a Danish understanding of environmental and working conditions. We therefore also believe that the government should press for environmental impacts to be reduced and the working environment to be improved globally by means of tools other than the Hong Kong Convention. An obvious tool for this political pressure is to implement the EU ship recycling regulation more strongly in Danish legislation. The fact that the EU ship recycling regulation is a more potent tool in this context is due to the fact that the Regulation's list of authorised scrapping facilities is based on higher environmental standards than the Hong Kong Convention and that the Commission actually has to inspect scrapping facilities to ensure that they continue to comply with the conditions for being on the list. It is therefore very likely that the open scrapping on beaches, for example. India could come close to appearing on this European list. However, although Danish-operating ships are covered by the regulation, the sacred grave is not well-preserved, because the vessel owner can flag out and thus have ships scrapped in indefensible conditions and handling. In October, it came out that, for example, Færsk had several of their ships scrapped on an open beach in India and Bangladesh, a clear example that, despite the EU regulation, we are not lifting our responsibilities. The Enhedslisten would like to work for an amendment to the bill which ensures that Danish shipping companies and Danish-owned ships are obliged to use facilities on the annexes of the regulation, and therefore not only Danish-flagged ships. The Enhedslisten supports the bill, but we would very much like it to be improved by an amendment to ensure that Danish companies are prohibited from dumping waste ships in countries that do not comply with environmental and safety standards for ship recycling, which we are obliged to do through the EU regulation. I think it would be interesting to have clear answers as to whether this legislative provision, which has been proposed here, means that Danish ships can no longer be scrapped on beaches in Asia. I would also like answers to the question as to whether Danish legislation could ensure that Danish ships could be scrapped in dry dock in Europe, or whether shipowners always have the opportunity to flag out ships and to circumvent the intentions of Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104700	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104708	It is a long way from Hong Kong to Copenhagen, and the convention on which the draft law is concerned may also be said to have been long at sea, in fact since 2009. With a port call en route in Brussels and an EU regulation in 2013, the Convention has now entered Danish port, and we in the Parliamentary Chamber today can first deal with the bill, which is intended to ensure the full implementation of the Convention in Danish law. Since ship recycling is today a global and competitive industry, it also requires international regulation, and the Liberal Alliance therefore supports Denmark's accession to those parts of the Hong Kong Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships that are not already covered by the EU ship recycling regulation. Not many other countries have been safe in the Hong Kong Convention at this time, and it is therefore my hope and the hope of the Liberal Alliance that other countries, like Denmark, will soon take the necessary legal steps to implement the Convention, since it must ensure the impact and proper entry into force of the Convention, rather than the current situation in which only a handful of countries have made the necessary legislative changes. Therefore, it is also important for the Liberal Alliance that, at the time of the final entry into force, a convention is implemented that does not impose additional requirements or administrative burdens on Danish companies beyond what is already applicable under the EU ship recycling regulation or what is directly required under the text of the Convention. In addition, it is also my hope and the hope of the Liberal Alliance that after the adoption of the bill here, L 110, the Minister will brag a little to his colleagues, first and foremost in the European Union, but also in the rest of the world, when the Minister is on some of his travels, so that we can get the field of countries behind the convention as far as possible. So the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104936	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119104944	In a globalised world there is not far from Hong Kong to Copenhagen, and we support in the alternative that we have implemented the Hong Kong Convention. It is a natural thing to do, especially for a great maritime nation, as Denmark is and has been for many, many years. It is important for us to be much better at dealing with the scrapping of ships, especially when we have the role of a great maritime nation, and a modern, well-functioning society such as ours should really be able to take the lead in the world at this point. That is why the case we had recently and where Mærsk did something else was also worrying and shameful. We, like the Enhedslisten, think that there is a problem with the Convention being able to flag out ships and in this way, like circumventing what is intended to do with them. That is why we also support the Enhedslisten's intention to table an amendment. We would very much like to take a closer look at this in the committee work. However, as a starting point, we support the proposal to implement the Hong Kong Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105106	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105113	The usual rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Ida Auken, is abroad, so I shall read out the Radical Left's position on the bill here. The Hong Kong Convention is an important convention which means that ship recycling takes place under proper conditions globally, both environmentally and in relation to the working environment. According to the Danish Shipowners' Association, around 1,000 ships are scrapped each year, and therefore this is an important discussion. With L 110, we are implementing parts of the Hong Kong Convention. This is an important step which the Radical Left supports, so that we avoid unfair competition from shipping companies that do not want to pay to have their ships scrapped under proper conditions. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105206	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105217	SF supports Danish ratification of the Hong Kong Convention. I do not think it is surprising that all the parties are going to do so, because the Convention offers a number of improvements and also sets a minimum level for regulating ship recycling globally, and that is certainly what is needed. However, if the level is to be raised further, the environmental impact must be reduced and the working environment improved globally, so it is with our glasses that the EU regulation is the key tool and not the Hong Kong Convention. We have already had consultations on this subject and consultations have been called again because there was not enough time for the reply to the first consultation. It would be good if there were clarification in the conciliation and also in the committee's examination of the legislative proposal, which would then also be reflected in the legislation ratifying Denmark's accession to the Hong Kong Convention. It can be said very briefly why SF believes that the EU ship recycling regulation is the key global driving force behind efforts to improve environmental and working conditions. Firstly, the Regulation's list of approved scrapping facilities is based on higher environmental standards than the Hong Kong Convention. Secondly, the European Commission must inspect the facilities to ensure that they continue to comply with the conditions for being on the list of checks is always good. Thirdly, it is therefore highly unlikely that the open scrapping, as we see on beaches, for example. in India and Bangladesh, the so-called beaching, could come close to appearing on a European list. That is why the three elements contribute to making the EU ship recycling regulation of course preferable. The Commission is also obliged to propose an economic mechanism to make it attractive to scrap ships on a facility on the European List. Ships with an EU Member State as a flag State are directly covered by the regulation, but the shipowner can choose to flag out and thus dump the ship on the market for environmentally and occupationally indefensible handling, and that is the very big problem. Færsk has previously had the policy that open scrapping of vessels in tidal zone cannot be applied to Mærsk's deserving vessels. Mærsk no longer believes so, and the Danish Shipowners' Association is currently following Mærsk. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister during this discussion of the draft law whether he will be prepared to table an amendment to the draft law, so that Danish shipping companies and Danish-owned ships are obliged to use facilities listed in the annex to the regulation, and not only Danish-flagged ships. This would be in line with Denmark's previous role in the Basel Convention when it comes to waste tourism, and since the Danish Parliament adopted earlier in the 1990s Lex Soyakagen, which prevents exports from Denmark of contaminated waste production plants. In all other areas we have no exceptions for Danish companies. They must all follow EU standards and standards. Perhaps Cheminova, which produces pesticides that cannot be used in the EU, is the only exception. In SF's view, the Folketing should prohibit Danish companies from dumping waste ships in countries that do not meet the environmental and labour standards set by the EU. That is why I expect the Minister to respond to this at the end of the examination of the bill, and I also expect that we can continue the discussion in the committee work, but the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105556	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105559	It is just a matter of understanding, I think, because, as I see the rapporteur, does the rapporteur think that it is better for us to have the EU ship recycling regulation a very long and difficult word rather than the Convention? What I really want to hear about is that when it is the European Union, it is typically EU countries and not the world, and in my optics it is here with shipping and also where the ships are being scrapped, the reasonable globally, one can say. There are many merchant ships, even outside the EU. I understand that there are tougher environmental requirements and so on, but what makes the rapporteur think that the regulation is better than the Convention? I hope the rapporteur understands me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105649	I understand Mrs Pia Adelsteen, and so I agree that the advantages of the Hong Kong Convention are that it applies to everyone. It is a global convention if everyone chooses to ratify it then we must also see if everyone chooses to do so. I support the ratification of this, and there should be no doubt about it. However, this must not mean that Denmark is falling to a level or that the EU is falling to a level, because the EU ship recycling regulation has higher standards, among other things. in relation to the environment and in relation to checking that the requirements are actually complied with. I have to say that this is one of the greatest challenges I see at all in the field of the environment, namely to ensure that not only are the rules made, but that they are also followed up. And that is what is really the advantage of the EU ship recycling regulation, namely that it delivers it. So it can be said that the Hong Kong Convention is up here and is good for everyone, but this must not mean that we are starting to lower standards within the European Union. In fact, I also believe that the European Union must work to spread this regime to the rest of the world, because at some point it will also mean that we may be able to do ship recycling in Denmark and not only on beaches in India and Bangladesh and that would create jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105752	I think that's all. Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119105805	Thank you. As the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Carsten Bach, said, is far from Copenhagen to Hong Kong, yet there is a little bit of Hong Kong in Denmark in Nyhavn, I know I have never visited it myself, but it exists. I think that many good things have been said in the previous rapporteur's speeches, among others. that a global industry requires a global agreement, and it must be said that this is the case here. We also support the Conservatives in ratifying the Hong Kong Convention. We need to keep a very watchful eye on this scrapping of ships at all times. As was also said by the Social Democrat rapporteur, there are examples of this happening directly on the beach in bathing sandals around southern Asia in particular, and this has both major human consequences, but also major environmental consequences, when it is not done properly. With the Hong Kong Convention, we are laying the foundations for both safe and environmentally sound scrapping of these ships. It's been carefully examined what else is in this convention itself. I also think that the fact that, as a ship, you should have a list of what you are carrying from dangerous material is a good thing. That seems to us to be the logic of battery hens, which is that if the accident is out, you must of course have access to see what kind of chemicals and other things are at risk for the environment and people. We are very pleased that we have this debate in this Chamber today. We are also well aware that few countries have reached where Denmark is, so work still needs to be done to get this convention safely into port, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also put it. But we are backing it from the conservative side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110003	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110010	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the various rapporteurs for their comments. And it is true, as several people have also stressed, that we need global rules that regulate this area. I am also pleased that we can now have this first reading which will pave the way for Denmark's accession to the Hong Kong Convention, which is intended precisely to ensure both a more environmentally correct and safe scrapping of ships globally by imposing requirements on both scrapping facilities and ships. Since the Convention was finalised in 2009, it has been the wish of successive governments to accede to the Convention. It has taken a few years for us, among other things. Pending the adoption of the EU regulation on ship recycling, which has also been referred to several times today, there have been complex legal rules requiring clarification in order to make the right legislative proposal. But now we are almost there and EU countries agreed on common rules in this area when the EU regulation on ship recycling was adopted in 2013. However, the EU ship recycling regulation does not adequately implement the Hong Kong Convention and there is therefore a need to supplement national rules before the Convention can be ratified. The overall purpose of the draft law is therefore to provide the legal basis for Denmark to accede to the Convention. Those parts of the Convention which have not been sufficiently implemented by the EU ship recycling regulation and which are necessary for Denmark to be able to comply with the Convention's requirements from the date of its entry into force will be ensured by this bill. Shipping and ship recycling are an international problem which requires international solutions. The Hong Kong Convention introduces a global regulatory framework which will increase the standards of ship recycling in the countries that accede to the Convention and, when the Hong Kong Convention enters into force, it will introduce completely new rules as to when a ship can legally be sent to scrapping in another country. One of the requirements would be for the ship to be scrapped at a scrapping plant approved under and complying with the requirements of the Hong Kong Convention. The Convention does not contain any prohibition on the reflagging of ships to a non-Contracting Party immediately before scrapping. The possibility of re-flagging a non-Contracting Party and of scrapping which does not comply with the Hong Kong Convention will, of course, be reduced, the more countries that accede to the Convention. It stressed the importance of as many countries as possible acceding to the Convention as soon as possible. EU countries should take the lead and thus inspire other countries to accede to the Hong Kong Convention, and by joining it we are helping to ensure a common global standard for ship recycling, not only in the EU, but throughout the world. Norway, France, Congo, Belgium and Panama have so far acceded to the Hong Kong Convention, and I hope that Parliament will agree that Denmark should be the sixth country to do so. In relation to what was raised by Mrs Pia Adelsteen about the balance in the level of protection between the two, i.e. the EU ship recycling regulation and the Hong Kong Convention, there are parts of the EU ship recycling regulation that are tighter, and we have a little more than that in relation to what the SF's rapporteur referred to, certainly not a desire for that level of protection to be reduced. It is a wish for Denmark to have as high standards as possible, but also global standards. And that, of course, is also why there will be pressure in the circle of EU countries, in terms of how we proceed with this, and some of it is the responsibility of the Commission in what they have of tasks, and some of it, of course, is the responsibility of the general debate. And there is Denmark's voice quite clear, and that is also what I have explained to you in consultation, and I will do so again when we meet at the next conciliation meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110419	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110426	I think that on top of the debate that has been going on so far about also Danish ships, which Mærsk has chosen to have scrapped in Asia, there is a good reason to continue working on whether we in the European Union could not take more responsibility for the ships that have sailed, among other things. under the Danish flag, will be scrapped in Europe and preferably in Denmark. There is, of course, a potential for building ships to be able to specialise in separating ships again in an environmentally responsible way. We have some players in Denmark who specialize in smaller ships, but there are some jobs in it if you could move on and come to the conclusion that you had an expertise in breaking down and scrapping large ships. Does the Minister not see any possibility that, in parallel with the ratification of the Hong Kong Convention, we could do something at EU level that could improve things?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110520	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. As I am told, there are today two Danish scrapping installations where ships can already be scrapped. I would like to pass this on in writing to the Danish Parliament, but as far as I remember right here on the platform, there are already two Danish ship recycling facilities. I do not see a need for special rules to be made which force Danish ships to be scrapped in a particular place other than the places now approved for it. That, of course, is why we are concerned about the implementation of the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110554	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110556	It is a good thing that this Hong Kong Convention is coming, but as the debate here has also shown, there are some possibilities that we could have tougher requirements in the European Union and that we could continue to work on the fact that practice was that more ships are being scrapped in an environmentally sound way in terms of working conditions and in terms of the rest of the environment than if this happens in countries where we have rather less control over things. Does the Minister not see any possibility that we could prioritise that EU track?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110623	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110625	Thank you. In fact, I think it is touching to feel the EU enthusiasm that Enhedslisten's rapporteur bases on his question. I very much agree that the European Union is a fantastic lever in some of these matters, and that is also why, with the ship recycling regulation in the European Union, we have some areas where there are stricter rules. There is also our whole list and the approval for which the Commission is responsible. But I see it running in the EU track in the way we are doing it today in the European Union, and then I see it in terms of having the Hong Kong Convention implemented. And what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also said, I should like to boast a little on behalf of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110700	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110706	Thank you, President. The Left rapporteur said in his speech that the Left is opposed to Western ships being scrapped on beaches. I just want to ask whether the Minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110724	I believe that what the rapporteur of the Left made very clear in his speech was that on the beaches where ships are being scrapped there must be proper conditions, and that is also the whole discussion we have had in the conciliation, that is to say on the basis of what is to be done. So I think it is very clear that the rapporteur from the Left thinks the same as the minister for the area does. So, yes to scrapping under proper conditions, no thanks to scrapping on beaches where there is no rules on scrapping.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110751	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110753	Well, Denmark has, of course, agreed to the EU ship recycling rules, and in them it is very clear that, as it is now, there is no scrapping on beaches, since the facilities are not on the EU's list. I would therefore just like the Minister to confirm that a Danish minister is not working to include beaches on the EU list.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110816	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110818	As I think I also said to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in the consultation, I am working to ensure that ship recycling takes place in accordance with the rules that exist and that there must be proper support for scrapping. This is the line which continues to be followed since our consultation, and I would like to repeat that when we meet in consultation later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110840	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110845	The Minister pointed out, I think, very precisely and correctly that this is a global industry and that it is therefore essential that global rules be made. These are the ones we are trying to ratify here with the Hong Kong Convention, which I hope will be ratified and accepted by several in the foreseeable future. That is also why we are working on the scrapping issue under the auspices of the European Union. It is not global, but it is under a regime that ensures that many countries' shipyards and many countries' fleets are included. After all, the Minister also pointed out the challenge posed by both the Hong Kong Convention and the rules of the European Union: the fact that shipping companies can choose to flag out ships just before they have to be scrapped, and flag them out to countries which are not covered by EU rules, or to non-Contracting Parties, on the day that the Hong Kong Convention has been ratified by so many that it applies. Can the Minister mobilise a political attitude towards companies that are flagging out just before ship recycling and thus circumventing the rules for which the Minister speaks so warmly here from Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119110954	I believe that we basically have an international set of rules to which shipowners must relate. There have been some specific cases which have also been mentioned in the above-mentioned consultation, and I think it is good style to think very carefully when it comes to flagging out ships. But there is an international set of rules for this. As far as the whole issue of flagging is concerned, we have some European experience that we are discussing with each other when, for example, we are discussing with each other. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111039	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111044	I think the Minister may be able to come a little closer if the Minister is making an effort. What is the Minister's view that companies are flagging out ships just before scrapping and thus circumventing the rules for which the Minister speaks warmly from the Parliament's platform, whose shipping companies are circumventing the Hong Kong Convention or whose shipping companies, by flagging out, are circumventing European rules in this area? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111113	At the request of the rapporteur, I shall try to tighten up and make it clear once again that the rules that exist must be complied with: there is nothing more or less moral responsibility but compliance with the rules. But it is clear that if you see examples of what is being done contrary to the intention, that is something that calls for attention, and we have seen that in several cases too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111136	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111140	It's just a simple question. For now we have both an EU regulation and there is, what can be said, a global convention. What then applies to ships with a Danish flag? So, when I ask, it is certainly not to make fun of it, but when you have both an EU rule and a global rule, what is immediately applicable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111200	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111203	Thank you. That is a more difficult question to answer than that, and I would like to reply in writing to that in order not to misplace Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Because it depends a little on where a ship is located, etc. etc., and that was also some of what we talked about in the conciliation. There are various complex problems in relation to where a ship is, in relation to scrapping, in relation to intention, in relation to what can be said about the given situation, and that is also what has drawn attention to the national case. So I would very much like to send a written answer to that, so that Mrs Pia Adelsteen gets it in the right context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111241	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111246	Thank you. There was a bit of a funny discussion just before, which made me press my question list, and it was about beaches. It is the case that many ships are being scrapped on beaches today, and in my view it can never be safe and environmentally sound to do so. But the Minister was told something like that if there is a solid base or a secure base, it is safe. And I've just tried to break up on Wikipedia not because it's always true what it says, but it says that a beach is the outermost part of the coast adjacent to the sea and partly covered by this. And that's how I see a beach. After all, a beach is a place where the water flushes in and out and is often undergoing major changes. I do not imagine that on a beach you can get such a secure base that you can say that this is now a place where ships can be safely scrapped.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111344	Thank you for that question. I can only call on the rapporteur to go in and revisit the quite excellent consultation that we have had and which was convened by, among others. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, where we had a very, very careful examination of how a beach, possibly with facilities, can be seen both as a beach but also as a scrapping site. And it acts among other things. the base of the facilities that are then scrapped in relation to any beach installation. However, I think it is true that the rapporteur understands that if you just think that it is a beach with a fine sandy shore, which flushes water, as we know it from many of our beaches, then it is not appropriate or advisable to scrape ships there, in other words on a quite ordinary bar beach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111426	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111431	Okay, so that means that if it is a plant, that is, a technical plant that is just close to the coast, then the minister thinks it could be on the list of such installations, but not on a sloping beach, where you just try to help a little on the coast dynamics using some sort of barriers. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111458	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111501	There are some very clear definitions, also in line with the work of the European Union, of what can be classified as an installation. This is the whole discussion about beaching, and it is a very, very complex issue where there are very clear guidelines on how to do it here. So the rapporteur can confidently expect that it is not as one imagines, that is, a bountystrand, where a ship is pulled up and then scrapped, and then everything is good. That is precisely what we want to get away from, because we want to be sure that when ships are scrapped on beach areas, it is done on facilities that provide both environmental protection and also protection for the workers who are doing these things. There have been several documentary and newspaper articles that have revealed that conditions have been far from adequate. That is also why, globally, this is important to solve together so that we do not deposit a problem on beaches without any kind of plant, so that we ensure that there are similar rules and that we ensure that as many ships as possible are scrapped properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111604	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111627	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119111639	With this bill, the sub-agreement on Danish aquaculture is being implemented in growth, which is part of the agreement on the food and agriculture package that the then government entered into together with the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. The draft law provides for the legal basis of the Environmental Protection Act to lay down rules for the approval of marine farms in areas where there is insufficient environmental room for manoeuvre, by establishing compensatory marine instruments as well. The draft law thus creates the possibility of increased nutrient emissions, provided that somewhere else in the relevant water area is compensated by measures such as mussel farming or seaweed cultivation. In this way, the government believes that they can increase marine production and compensate, in whole or in part as it stands, for the additional emissions of, among others. nitrogen and phosphorus. First of all, I think there is reason to say that there are so many environmental concerns in the government's concrete proposals, and I will come back to them. But let me make it clear that the Social Democrats want to create growth in aquaculture. Danish fish are known to be of high quality both in Denmark and in the rest of the world, and therefore there are also good opportunities for the sector to grow and create jobs. This was also why the social democracy in government itself led an ambitious strategy for the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector, where resource efficiency and better framework conditions were key words pointing to more growth in that production. Unfortunately, it is a rather gloomy backdrop on which we are dealing with this proposal. Indeed, it is not our view in the Social Democratic Party that the government currently has control over nitrogen emissions in Denmark. New figures have shown that more nitrogen is lost to the aquatic environment. This is a worrying development. At the same time, I think it is clear to everyone that the government also has no control over the impact of the agricultural package on total nitrogen emissions. Similarly, we are also concerned about whether the compensatory nitrogen agents such as mussel farming and seaweed cultivation are really able to collect the nutrients fully The Government writes in the draft law's comments: "Compensating marine instruments will, in isolation, have positive environmental consequences, but these will only partially neutralise the negative environmental consequences resulting from increased marine production. We would like to see aquaculture in the Social Democratic Party, but we are only interested to stamp out the nitrogen-laden enlargement of the sea when and if the government can prove that they have controlled nitrogen development, including in the appropriate waters concerned. Forestry and Danish aquaculture generally represent a great potential for growth and jobs in Denmark. The Social Democrats would like to invest in that. We are therefore positively exploratory and will enter into dialogue with the government in committee as to whether adequate environmental safety and room for manoeuvre can be ensured so that the potentials of aquaculture at sea can be realised. It looks difficult, but we would like to look seriously at the possibilities, so that the environment is also protected. Against this background, we look forward to the work of the committee and wait with our final position on the third reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112032	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112036	Thank you. The rapporteur started by saying that we want to support the growth potential of aquaculture, and I think that is a good thing. But then the rapporteur also made a number of reservations and reservations and ifs and concerns. That is not enough time to allow me to go into it, but if we now imagine what I could do, that the rapporteur will put a written question to the Minister and clarify the concerns that the rapporteur is now listing, then the way should be paved for the Social Democrats to be able to vote in favour of it too. So that's kind of my question. Let us say that, through a technical issue, it is clarified that it is under control. Because it is not the intention to go out and, so to speak, deliberately place an extra burden on the environment in the sea. On the contrary, this proposal is designed to ensure that we must support the development of aquaculture and, at the same time, ensure that it does not burden the environment. It's in there. So could it be a way forward to find a basis for the Social Democrats to vote for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112134	I would say that I believe that one question is probably not enough. That would probably be too little. But it is clear that when I say that we are seriously going to go into this committee's work, it is of course for the purpose of seeing whether we can include the environmental challenges that I think lie in the legislative proposal when we read about it to the extent that we can be comfortable in voting for it. For example: The draft law says that we have to live up to the Water Framework Directive in Denmark, which means that if there are some waters where you have a challenge, you have to find out, if you want to place a sea farm, to pick up the additional emissions completely. And as I read the marine instruments that have been put up to use, seaweed and mussels, it says that those things will only be able to do so in part. So there are some challenges, but let us try seriously to get into it with each other and see if we can find a way where we can both create growth for Danish aquaculture while maintaining environmental protection. We are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112233	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112236	Thank you. And when clam production is pointed out, it is one of the good things about it that it also has an effect. But does the rapporteur himself have any other things that could then be done alongside him? Because the intention is precisely to be able to support growth potential and, of course, not to burden the environment further, and to comply with the various directives is obvious. I'm quite sure it's screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112306	Yes, I think we should rely on the recognised instruments if we are to start getting closer. And that means that there are media catalogues. I am now a little bit uncertain as to how far the mussels are from being approved as an instrument, but we can try to study this together. The point is that the policy of the Social Democrats in this area of aquaculture is that we are looking for the opportunity to create growth in the aquaculture sector, while at the same time taking care of the environment. It may be a question of the specific location of marine farms, but it may also be a question of the instruments put in place in connection with marine farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112352	Thank you. And many thanks to the Social Democrats' rapporteur for an open-minded approach to this proposal. I am pleased about that, and I look forward to discussing it in committee as well. But Mr. Simon Kollerup may not admit that the nitrogen cycle in Denmark and the Danish waters is a very complex size there are many sources of nitrogen in the Danish waters and that the majority of these sources are actually not Danish and that it is actually only a small part of the nitrogen in the Danish waters that actually originate from Danish sources?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112435	It goes without saying that it is very complicated. After all, we have worked on this in depth in relation to the agricultural package and other agricultural and environmental aspects, so the agreement that it is complicated can easily be reached here, also for rolling cameras in the Parliamentary Chamber. It certainly is. But I also think that we should stick a little bit to the draft law here, because the opening remarks already state that there are many coastal waters and sea areas where there is a need today to reduce nutrient emissions in order to meet the international environmental commitments that Denmark has signed up to. This means that it is necessary to pay attention when placing any marine farms, if you are fully intercepted with any additional emissions. That is one of the things we are examining in the committee's work. So yes, it's complex, yes, there are several sources of it. I do not think we fully agree on how much and how little foreign sources fill. I guess I'm leaning a little bit more on the research world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112533	Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112537	Then there was a limit to this open-minded entrance to it. Perhaps I had hoped that the Social Democratic rapporteur could have included here too, that there are many other sources, and that the majority of the sources and the majority of the nitrogen present in Danish waters actually come from other than Danish sources, and that thus, if you would actually like to see growth and development in the Danish aquaculture sector, you might have looked at how little is involved in extra emissions from these marine farms, which would in fact be neglected, because a large part of the nitrogen is actually just flowing through Danish waters, but we could not get the Social Democratic Party to go so far today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112620	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112624	Thank you. Of course, there is a limit to being open-minded.I do not know what it is called.We shall speak Danish here in the Danish Parliament, but that is the open mind in this matter; it gives itself. I was also trying to outline what environmental protection must be in place, which is why I should like to mention a word which Mr. Carsten Bach said in his comment: to neglect nitrogen emissions from these marine farms. We are not going to do that, but if we can find ways to capture it and have a guarantee that the waters in which it is established here can stand up to it and that there is clear protection of the environment, we can make progress for aquaculture and aquaculture and take care of that environment, and we in the Social Democratic Party are committed to ensuring that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112706	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112712	After all, there is now a strategy for the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector in Denmark from 2014 to 2020, and this was, of course, something that was adopted in the time of the former SR government. There was a somewhat different approach to this, if it were to be the case that there should be an expansion of fish farms at sea. Among other things, it said:: The Parties agree that Danish aquaculture production is being developed in a way that reduces the environmental impact. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it was not a better approach to have if it were to be the case that there is room for more marine farms in Denmark, so that one then has the approach that an expansion of production can only happen if it is the case that the environmental impact is reduced, rather than what the government is proposing here, namely that one can have a little mussels and seaweed in one corner, while at the same time expanding production with a guaranteed increase in environmental impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112816	After all, it follows from the directives we are complying with that progress must be there. What we write on page 13 of our strategy about the then SR government's strategic goal for Danish aquaculture in environmental objectives point. 2, 2 is, of course, that the government's objective is that a production increase in aquaculture should take place within the environmental scope at all times. That's the line we're still on, so nothing's changed in the social democracy's approach to this. That is why we can be positive about the committee's work now, i.e. whether the specific locations or the instruments used can come within the scope of environmental scope. That's kind of just what we're saying. If this bill can be brought within the framework of what the former SR government has put in place, then we are in favour of achieving this growth in the sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112911	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112915	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur attaches importance to ensuring that the Water Framework Directive is respected in the future too. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Since we are going to talk about this with instruments and about what might work, could we not imagine a process in which we were able to test specifically what mussel cultivation and seaweed cultivation have to do with environmental effects, so we got some figures on what such production has of a positive environmental effect before we say yes to the creation of new sea pond farms?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119112945	I think it is a very obvious part of the committee's work to uncover the robust results that clams and seaweed can produce. There is the strategy of the previous government referred to by the rapporteur, and it is, after all, described in the draft law that it is proposed that they be ready for use. In any case, I have a need to know that they are finally approved as a means of action. I remember there was some debate on that. So on a stand, it's not a verdict I can take. But I think it is natural that, as a Parliament, we should, of course, examine the circumstances in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113017	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113026	Thank you. This is the implementation of the agreement on the food and agriculture package and a subsequent agreement from June 2016, • Danish aquaculture in growth. The aim is quite clear that we must create growth in the aquaculture sector. The debate that is clearly taking place is, of course, about the environmental impact, and that is also fine in that respect. As I see the whole agreement, both in the area of food and agriculture, but certainly here also in the field of the aquaculture sector, it is the case that we will provide some opportunities for growth. But this isn't a matter of us just wanting to hog anymore. I think we might as well be speaking out of the bag, I was about to say, and call a shovel a shovel and a spade a spade, because that is what we are constantly being accused of, I think, after the agreement on the food and agriculture package was made. Then it is as if it has become that because we have made an agreement and because we are giving some opportunities in certain professions, we are not green at all and that we actually want the environment to where the pepper grows. I just think I'm going to say that strongly, because it has nothing to do with this. It is my clear view that, with the agreements we have concluded, we actually want to give these professions an opportunity to expand, to have some growth, to help us get better food and so on. But it should not be at the expense of the environment, and it is clear in the agreement between the four parties, in other words the current government and the Danish People's Party, that if the environment is further strained, we shall meet again. It's clear in the deal. And it does both in agriculture, but it certainly does in this area too, and I have no doubt about that at all. That's also why when we have these discussions, sometimes I can get a little irritated. I understand you can be worried, but sometimes I think you paint the hell on the wall too, if I, excuse the expression, have to put it that way. 'Cause it's not just a question of messing around anymore. This is a question of trying to exploit the opportunities that exist in the various industries, agriculture, aquaculture, etc., so that they can actually also live off what they do; so that the professions we have in these areas can move on to the next generation; so that we can still get a steak on the table; so that we can still get our rye bread and a fish, etc. Well, that's really what this is all about. And then, of course, we do it in a way that minimises the environmental impact, that goes without saying. There is also constant technological development which we must, of course, implement in some way, so that we do not just mess up. I do not think I will say much more about the proposal. At least the Danish People's Party is in favour of it in every way and thinks it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113331	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113338	I think it seems like this bill is something that has been devised in an office with a lot of on-board computers with some black spreadsheets, where some numbers have been moved around, without focus on the fact that there are some environmental issues for which it has implications. It is as if there has just been a small aquarium in the corner of the office with four blue fish, and that one imagines that one can increase pollution and then take a few mussels and some seaweed, and then everything is solved. Well, there's no need to talk this problem down, because it's 800 tonnes of nitrogen that comes into the Danish environment as a consequence of this bill. It is a fact based on what it says, so I think it is entirely beside the rapporteur, just as the rapporteur speaks, that we are talking about this problem. It is very clear in the consultation note where the Danish Environmental Protection Agency writes that the overall environmental effects of the bill are likely to be negative. It's kind of in the consultation note. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that this bill has a negative impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113440	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113442	Immediately, I'll say no. And when I see that in a moment, because it says that more nitrogen is being emitted, I would say that it is from that angle that we have just said that we need to have some marine instruments. I have a very clear expectation that there are some wise people sitting in some places saying: Listen, if you need permission to expand your aquaculture, if you need permission to make a new sea farm, then we need that they and the means are being created. Then it may be that you say on paper that more is emitted, but I would like you to go out and measure something more to see what our load actually is. This is what has happened to the whole paradigm shift compared to the food and agriculture package, namely that you actually go out and see what the situation is like. And I certainly hope we do the same here. If there are any unintended effects, and if something is not to happen, then we will have to make it right. And that's what we're gonna do, because it's clear in the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113547	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113551	Well, it's very good with these marine instruments. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware of the fact that the marine instruments, which are mussels and seaweed cultivation, which have been suppressed in relation to the fact that the Danish Nature and Environment Complaints Board overruled the sea pond farm in Horsens Fjord. For then there had been a sea pond farm which had reached the point of obtaining a permit that was denied because these instruments were not good enough. Is the rapporteur aware of this example?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113624	No, I'm not. But I think that's clearly why we have some professional staff around here... that it's the professional staff who have to sit and make these assessments. I have no doubt about that at all. What I think is important about this proposal, and what I think is important about the whole food and agriculture package, is that we are now giving some opportunities. And if you're going to have these opportunities and if they have a negative impact on the environment, then we're going to look at how we deal with it and what we do. And we're gonna need some smart people to do that, too. I know that people would very much like to do the opposite and say that we have to have all the means before we give permission, but that is not necessarily the way the world is connected to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113702	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119113711	Thank you. In the Left we have an ambition to also support the development of Danish aquaculture. It is an area that is experiencing growth in large parts of the world. And, of course, we must also have lots and shares in this growth here in Denmark. We have many competences in this area, but in order for us to be able to make serious use of them, it requires that legislation does not place unnecessary obstacles in the way of the industry. For the Left, it is crucial and important that we take care of our common nature and that we constantly pay attention to the sensitive environment in our waters. And the bill we are discussing today, of course, meets these intentions. The draft law allows us to increase the number of aquaculture farms without damaging the environment, and this is done by introducing compensatory measures to the extent that it is needed, particularly when it comes to growing, for example. mussels, but also by the cultivation of seaweed. This is necessary, since the use of ponds leads to greater nutrient emissions, and these nutrients are then absorbed by plankton, on which the mussels, so to speak, feed. And by cultivating mussels it is ensured that the amount of nutrients does not increase even if the number of sea pond farms increases. Especially the cultivation of mussels has great potential, both in terms of ensuring a smaller amount of nutrients in the water and in terms of providing jobs. And there is, in fact, a significant untapped potential, since today approx. 2,000 tonnes of mussels, but according to Danish Aquaculture there is an opportunity to get production more up. Figures are even mentioned about 12,000 tonnes. Cultivation of seaweed is less common, but there is also great potential for this. Sugar cane can be used for food, but also for animal feed or biofuels, and there are development projects which seek to use this seaweed grown in marine farming as raw materials, for example. whether or not for fish feed. It can be said that Danish aquaculture can thus become the first in the world to grow their own feed, while also becoming environmentally neutral. The Left wants a Denmark in balance where there are jobs and opportunities for growth throughout the country, and at the same time we want an environmental policy based on green realism. And with the right solutions, we can secure more jobs in rural areas and at the same time also take good care of our environment. So to speak, it's a win-win situation. That is why, of course, for us in the Left, there is no doubt that we must support, support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114004	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, for a short comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114008	I thought that green realism was something that was buried with the previous government, that is to say that there was now a new government basis. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware of the marine aquaculture farming on land up at Hanstholm, where they use new techniques; where they recirculate salt water in a production which does not have a negative environmental impact; and where they produce some fish in the high price range and can thus dispose of everything they produce. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there is no other way to go than to expand out at sea with the negative environmental consequences that this bill clearly wants. It is very clear that it has negative environmental consequences if there is a majority in favour of this bill. I see some other options, some high-tech options, to get the fish raised on land under controlled conditions. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether this is not the way we should go instead of increasing nitrogen pollution in the Danish seas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114109	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114111	Of course, as I have already indicated in my rapporteur's speech, we also want to make use of the growth potential of marine aquaculture, and this must be done without burdening the environment, as I have clearly indicated in the rapporteur's speech. Of course, we must also make use of it both for jobs and for good fish and food on the table. In Denmark we produce some of the world's best foods, if not the very best foods in the world. We must, of course, continue to do so, and we must also make use of the opportunities that are available. Then a number of projects, development projects, can be well pointed out around the country, which must support the possibility that we are completely advanced in ensuring that we can exploit the potential and at the same time take good care of our environment. I do not see anything wrong in that, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114156	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114158	The rapporteur is now insisting that this should be done without burdening the environment, but it is clear from the draft law that an extra 800 tonnes of nitrogen will be released into Danish waters as a result of this legislation. And then you start talking about how you can grow some seaweed and clams in a corner... somewhere else than where you have the polluting sea pond farms. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is no problem in the fact that there is no evidence that the compensatory measures really work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114229	Well, when dealing with the matter, I think that the questioner is also fully aware of this room for manoeuvre environmentally, as has also been discussed thoroughly along the way. So overall, when we get it all recognised with two lines below, we should finally come to the conclusion that we take good care of our environment after all the middle bills. There are a number of ways to do that, and that is exactly what everything worked out and, if I may say so, the subsequent work, when it is hoped that some of these applications will be dealt with at some point in the future. That is why, of course, you cannot and should not stand here in the Danish Parliament and deal with the individual issues. We just need to make sure that, in the context of the legislation that we are putting into effect, we can put two points below that we also take good care of our environment. I'm quite comfortable with that. And so there is also, at least I know, scientific evidence that this is, for example, the case. works with clams and works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114323	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114336	I think a lot of questions can be asked about these environmental issues. How can the blue block be allowed to allow increased pollution in the large sea if there is compensation for a little farming of mussels and seaweed in a quite different place from where the increased pollution is taking place? Will it be next that more particulate pollution from traffic in Copenhagen will be accepted if electric buses are introduced in Aarhus? For decades, municipalities have spent billions on reducing nitrogen and phosphorus pollution from cities by building and operating wastewater treatment plants effectively. Blue block will increase nitrogen emissions from marine aquaculture by 800 tonnes a year. It is equivalent to nitrogen from toilets from a town of 160,000 inhabitants, if it is led uncleaned into the sea. The Minister's opinion on the consultation note makes it clear that the overall environmental effects of the bill are expected to be negative. It is very noteworthy that the additional impact of the aquaculture growth plan was only included with 423 tonnes of nitrogen in the creative nitrogen accounts of the former Minister and the agricultural package, while the additional load of 800 tonnes of nitrogen from new marine farms is not included. This is alleged to be due to the fact that the new aquaculture farms are to be located outside the areas covered by the river basin management plans. This simply means that they must be placed in marine areas covered by the Marine Strategy Directive and environmental objectives set out in the Regional Maritime Conventions. So there is no target achievement here, and therefore no so-called environmental room for more pollution. Thus, we will no longer be allowed back to November 2015, when the Danish EPA had to suspend four applications for environmental approval of new marine farms in the Bælthaven and the Baltic Sea at Bornholm, because the Danish Nature Agency at that time considered that there was no room for environmental room in these areas for additional nitrogen and phosphorus emissions in relation to the water plans and in relation to the Marine Strategy Directive. This is now being legitimised by so-called compensatory farming, the nutrient-reducing effect of which is just not proven professionally. In the past there have been plans for a new sea pond farm at Endelave in Horsens Fjord. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency had approved it, but fortunately the approval was withdrawn by the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board on 23 December 2014 in December 2014, so it was not very long ago. The reasons for the removal were as follows: Catch culture with mussels and seaweed has been proposed as best available technique. Commercial production of mussels and seaweed remains at the experimental stage, so it is not a proven technique that is sustainable in terms of operation, the environment and economic conditions, and there are unresolved issues about the effect of the culture on nutrient emissions. Therefore, catch cultures are not to be considered as best available techniques. Now the Minister is proposing to adopt a law which makes it legal to increase pollution if a little mussels and seaweed are grown, without there being any professional evidence that it works. The effect of combination farming of mussels and seaweed on nitrogen and phosphorus removal for marine farming is extremely uncertain and at the same time creates a wide range of other problems. Nature and the marine environment become losers in the attempts of liberals to overuse our seas with more fish farming in the seas. It is a polluting technique which belongs to the past and which produces fish with a lower nutritional content than if they are wild fish. There are many good reasons to support growth in the aquaculture industry, but this must be done on a sustainable basis, and that is not to say the creation of new aquaculture in Danish inland waters. On the other hand, I find it exciting to see fish farming on land where environmental conditions can be better controlled. The world's largest land-based pond farms are built at Hirtshals with latest environmental technology. They use, cleanse and recycle seawater in production. That's the future. This bill, on the other hand, is aimed at an outdated form of production at the expense of the environment. It is not only short-term, it is also unambitious in terms of creating better conditions for those companies that rely on sustainable solutions with the development of technology based on land-based recycled plants. Let's get fish farming on land and not gamble with our marine environment. Blue block's overall aquaculture growth plan is part of what is based on very extensive natural and environmental degradation, especially in the field of marine agriculture, where the plan allows for an additional emissions of nitrogen of 843 tonnes, phosphorus of 96 tonnes and a lot of negative side effects with medicines and feed inputs. The Enhedslisten cannot agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114847	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114851	When you listen to the rapporteur's speech in favour of the Enhedslisten, it sounds as if the Enhedslisten is, on principle, just opposed to sea fish farming. Well, maybe that's a position to take, but can't we just get it on the table? Can we confirm that the Enhedslisten of principle is against sea pond farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119114909	No, we're not. We have thus been part of the previous plan adopted by the SR government. We were, in fact, involved in that settlement. After all, it had a completely different approach to what caution should be. There was a clear prerequisite, and the parties agreed that Danish aquaculture production should be developed in a way that reduces the environmental impact. This was the starting point for the previous government and for the agreement that Enhedslisten was included in. I would guess that the Left was also included in that agreement, because it was actually a fairly broad agreement. And I think it is a little unclear whether the things that were included in the previous plan have been completely scrapped because there is a new piece of legislation here. I think that would really be important to clarify during the committee procedure: to what extent does this draft law have a negative impact on some sensible objectives that have previously been included in the agreements that have been broadly based?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115000	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115004	If, in the course of the committee procedure, it is clarified through technical questions and it is otherwise clarified during the legislative procedure that marine aquaculture does not, overall, burden the marine environment, will the Enhedslisten vote in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115022	Sea pond use pollutes. After all, there is a feeding of those fish, and there is pollution associated with such a sea pond farm. If we can then come to the conclusion that there are compensatory measures such as mussel farming and seaweed cultivation, I can imagine that solutions could be found that were acceptable. But this bill suggests that you can have increased pollution somewhere, and then you can have some clam farming elsewhere, but that does not mean that you do not destroy nature in the place where the sea pond farm is. So it's a very difficult balance. I think that in the future, aquaculture should be on land.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115056	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115102	With the present draft law, we will have to consider the possibility of amending the environmental protection law, so that the rules will open up the possibility of creating new marine farms and expanding existing marine farms without any significant impact on the marine environment, because, as a condition for new authorisations, the creation of compensatory marine instruments with proven effects is required. The draft law is yet another follow-up to a very comprehensive agreement on the food and agriculture package, of which the Liberal Alliance was part, even before we formed the Triple Government. The aim is to provide a basis for growth in the Danish aquaculture industry, which has a significant potential for growth and exports. There are already several of our neighbouring countries that have a good grasp of these new market opportunities, and Denmark actually has know-how in this area which we should definitely take advantage of. Aquaculture undertakings shall be treated in the same way as other types of establishment which, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, have the possibility of establishment or extension, provided that any discharges are cleaned at source. And without taking it much further than that, I can say that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115233	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115241	Yes, it is very good that the Liberal Alliance, just as it speaks, should also take care of the environment. But if we now come to the conclusion in this committee that this compensatory instrument of seaweed cultivation and mussel cultivation is something that should be put into effect, several years before a new offshore farm is set up, if it is to be environmentally sound, is it a conclusion that the Liberal Alliance would be open to drawing, rather than being able, as has been proposed here, to set up new aquaculture farms if it is the case that there is a completely different place to set up some seaweed cultivation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115321	The first part of the question is not quite sure that I understood correctly. But it's a little like Mr. Knox's. Søren Egge Rasmussen at home washes the dishes if Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen does it in his hand and he then puts dishwashing detergent in the dishwashing tub that doesn't mean that only a small part of the dishwashing tub can be washed up, but that it can actually be washed up throughout the dishwashing tub. In the same way, there is, of course, a larger coherent nitrogen cycle in the coastal waters concerned. Therefore, just as one cannot look at the nitrogen cycle very narrowly over a short period of time, one can say that one can look very closely at this, i.e. on geographical distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115411	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115414	I think that the rapporteur has been one of the four blue fishes in the aquarium that stood in the corner when this law was written by some officials who had large spreadsheets, moving around on some nitrogen emissions. I think that this is a matter that is very important, because it affects our marine environment in such a way, and we have some major obligations to look after our seas. If, at the same time, we see that there is an increase in emissions from our agriculture, then it just does not work out that because you have a political majority that wants to expand by sea-farming, you end up there no matter what. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there can be, or what to say, new information in this matter about these compensatory measures which do not work, which make it necessary to amend this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115456	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115459	As environmental rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, of course, I am always open to new knowledge and to learn more about this. I know these instruments are documented without having to tell you who has documented it, but it is probably a university environment, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and others in many other cases trust very blindly. Of course, we can always get smarter. I believe that the documentation is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119115527	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll take a break, and we'll start again at 8:00. 13.00. The next rapporteur will be Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130005	We'll resume the meeting. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130028	Thank you. The alternative cannot support the draft law for reasons such as: The following answers are mentioned, the concerns and reflections of which we share. I'll start with the Danish Sports Fishing Association. They write: "The opinion bears very much the hallmark of the fact that the draft alone will ensure the follow-up and implementation of the political decision on a growth plan for Danish Aquaculture. There is a great lack of balance between other interests and professional and objective reasons for the use of compensation farming as a marine instrument. ▪ Another hearing answer from the Danish Canoe and the Kajak Federation and the Danish Association for Rosport writes:... that the proposal largely illustrates how the public areas of the sea can end up being distributed to economic interests without focusing on the overall perspective where other actors using the land are taken into account. Nor does it take into account the strategic discussion on how Denmark's last wilderness will be managed in the future. • Associations believe that this is a short-term and undemocratic way of working with a complex natural resource that belongs to all citizens. They are astonished that the Ministry of the Environment and Food regards the sea as a kind of no-man's-land where everyone can build without landscape-aesthetic and qualitative considerations. In the alternative, we are very much in agreement with that. The Nature Conservation Association also has a comment that we think is extremely relevant. They write: "Enlargement of marine production in Denmark is a bad idea. The future of Danish saltwater farming lies not in producing fish in open mesh cages at sea, but in recycled salt water plants that can cleanse their waste water and deal with diseases much more environmentally friendly. At the same time, it provides the technology development which already represents a larger part of the industry's earnings than the fish production itself. To this I would like to say in more detail that we in the Alternative feel that the whole concept of aquaculture should be looked at in committee. It is the case that cultivating predatory fish, as we are talking about here, typically gives rise to consumption of two and a half times what applies to wild fish, i.e. by cultivating predatory fish, we also contribute to overfishing. And what you might want to go for more strategically was to look at cultivating vegetarian fish such as... multe ashore in these recirculating plants. This would have many advantages, and we would like to continue working on this in committee. But I would like to refer to a little more that comes from the Danish Nature Conservation Association: Danish waters are naturally vulnerable to many nutrients, and still far from meeting their goals of good ecological condition. More nutrients at sea will remove us further from that goal. The idea of full compensation for discharged nutrients is not currently a proven and tested option in fully reliable operation. Partial compensation, to which the draft law refers, naturally means additional emissions and thereby a deterioration in the aquatic environment, which the Water Framework Directive does not allow. ▪ A lot of money has been spent on these compensatory solutions, no later than 15 million. kr. on the GUDP programme, which resulted in a report showing that these ways of compensating actually do not work very well. Then I would say that when I read the legislative proposal itself, which is quite brief, I thought that there might be a mistake, and that is why I would like to table an amendment in committee as well. 'Cause it says no. 3 that in section 41, the following paragraph is inserted after paragraph 3: 1 as new paragraph: 2. Includes a marine farm approved under terms of compensatory marine measures in accordance with rules issued pursuant to § 35 (1). 3, significant pollution or risk of significant pollution, the supervisory authority may issue instructions to reduce nutrient load. And I think that's strange, because pollution can be about many things... one thing is the nutrient load, but for example... there are also, as DN also points out, marine farms which also lose large amounts of oxygen-consuming organic matter, and there are medicines and co-formulants, and they are not included in the compensation at all. So the amendment on my part will be that we change the last of the No. 3 of the draft law on: significant pollution or risk of significant pollution, the supervisory authority may issue orders to reduce the pollution in question. Because if pollution is with medicines, that is, of course, what needs to be reduced if it is with nutrients, that is what needs to be reduced, and if it is with organic matter, that is what needs to be reduced. So there is plenty to be done in committee work, but as a starting point we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130601	We thank the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is actually the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg, as we have just seen in the Chamber. It was very, very lucky that he came now. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130626	Thank you, President. I got the exercise of the day again on the way over here, but that's the way it is in the Folketing. Mrs Ida Auken, who is normally the Radical Left's rapporteur on the environment, is abroad, so I should like to read out the Radical Left's position on the draft law. Aquaculture is an effective way of producing animal products. However, Denmark is still far behind in terms of nitrogen and phosphorus compared to complying with the Water Framework Directive and ensuring clean water in lakes, creeks and watercourses. I'm sorry, but I'm just having trouble with the conditioning and breathing. That's what we're having problems with the watercourses. That problem, or perhaps both, has not diminished with the agricultural package. On the contrary. In this situation, it does not seem appropriate to gamble with a possible additional emissions from marine farming. The compensation for mussel farming seems uncertain, and it is the Minister who is competent to draw up rules for imposing additional measures for more pollution. Moreover, there are other environmental negative consequences of increased production than the nutrient load that mussels and seaweed may be able to compensate for. Musling plants also have independent negative effects on nature, environment and landscape and seize large areas. The farming of saltwater fish should, in principle, be carried out in land-based facilities, and that is certainly the future too. Growth in aquaculture should form part of an overall solution with agriculture, where there is an overall plan of continuous reduction of nutrients to the aquatic environment and a fixed target for achieving good ecological quality. In the current political situation, with a narrow majority behind the agricultural package and the agreement on aquaculture, the Radical Left cannot support the bill, as we find both the environmental impact and the unstable business policy unsustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130844	A brief comment has been made, and it is from Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130850	When one listens to the radical rapporteur's speech in a very brief way, one wonders, because we often hear the Radical Left say in other contexts that they will work for a responsible economy and for growth and employment. In fact, the radical rapporteur says that, in the interests of safety, we are against it. My question is very brief: if it should now be shown that technical clarification of issues in the legislative process will help to clarify what I believe, expect and are quite certain that by establishing these aquaculture farms the environment will not be burdened from a global point of view, it should actually, I would say and guess, escape with the other radical policies. Will the radical rapporteur give an undertaking that, if this is clarified, the Radical Left will still vote in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119130941	Thank you for the question, and also thank you for just having time to both breathe air and water here in a hectic everyday life. Of course, we are always willing to recognise that there can be an opportunity for you to become wiser. However, as we see the agricultural package, there is an overall picture of increasing emissions from agriculture and at the same time doing so from aquaculture, and in the way it is now at least, it seems that we are only increasing emissions overall, and we cannot support that. If we should have allowed more aquaculture, we should not have done what we do for agriculture in the package.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131019	Then I think that there is good reason for the Radical Left to ask the Minister for the Environment and Food some more questions in connection with the legislative process here. One of them could be to ask the Minister for the Environment to state whether it is correct or mistakenly understood by the Radical Left that the food and agriculture package should go in and burden the environment, as the radical rapporteur says now. I do not think that is the case. It has been dealt with thoroughly. We can't do that right now. If we could now help, if I may say so, to clarify the decision-making framework for the Radical Left, then I think it would end up with seeing a good potential for growth here in sea pond farming, which can be realized by the way, without burdening the marine environment as a whole. Will it not really be nice music in radical ears, or has it been getting various new inputs from the SF and elsewhere simply changed its policy so that we can no longer know Radical Left at all? Is that where we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131119	No, when you look at the agricultural package, you see that there is a difference between the short and the long term. In the short term, we are increasing emissions, and we are trying to compensate for this by means of quite expensive measures, in which we think we could have spent the money more sensibly. That is also why we believe that the agricultural package here in the coming years is both poor business policy and poor spending of public funds, and there is also an increase in emissions. Then it is true that you say you have a targeted regulation in, I think it's next year or 2019 • nobody knows it yet and that's what has to create the positive environmental impact when we reach 4-5 years ahead. But we think that is a little too uncertain at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131158	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Perhaps this is where I should provide a service information that there is in fact an excellent gym in this House. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131214	Thank you. I think the radical rapporteur is practicing stair training here at Christiansborg. I would say that the SF is not opposed to the cultivation or production of food, feed or protein at sea, but we do not believe that there is room for fish farming under current conditions. Pollution with nitrogen in particular is too high to permit new sources of pollution. If pollution in Denmark is successfully reduced to the 42,000 tonnes of nitrogen as planned, but not decided, in 2027, within the 42,000 tonnes theoretically, there can be room for the production of fish at sea, if other countries also reduce the burden of nutrients. The government can contribute to this through active action in the EU and the sea conventions. What about the physical space? SF does not want visible sea farms to be in fjords or coastal waters, and certainly not fish farms, which will then derive where the strain from land is greatest. In Djursland, there is a great deal of concern about planned aquaculture, because it does not decorate, but also because it steals the pollution quota that agriculture is already taking full advantage of and more. We are in favour of real land-use planning at sea, among other things. in order to prevent arbitrary permissions for one or the other which may bother interests other than those that have been asked in the process. SF is also in favour of internationally agreed standards for water and nature quality, biodiversity, etc., but the government does not seem to be. I asked a number of questions on 5 December. Question 211 to the Minister on the Danish strategy to prevent the adoption of the binding international targets which emerged in connection with the government's submission of a committee case. In addition, it is clear from the draft law that it will lead to pollution by nitrogen, phosphorus and other substances, even if it is possible to offset the extra pollution by nutrients by means of seaweed or mussels. So the bill recognises that there will be extra pollution regardless of the compensatory mussel, seaweed and algae farms, which, moreover, there is no proper evidence of the effect of. The SF cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131439	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next one. It's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131452	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today translates part of the former Left Government's agricultural package from 22 December 2015 as well as subsequent agreement 30 June 2016 on Danish aquaculture in growth, which among other things. The aim is to create growth in the aquaculture sector. After all, a decree will be issued which lays down rules on the compensatory marine measures that can be used. The Statutory Order shall also contain detailed rules for the operation of marine farms, which shall have conditions for the establishment of the operation of compensatory marine instruments, including how self-control shall ensure that adequate amounts of nutrients are compensated. Initially, mussel farming and seaweed cultivation are expected to be included in the Statutory Order as compensatory marine instruments, but the beginning of the proposed provision allows other instruments to be added in the long term. That means that when you get smarter, you can expand this area. With the current knowledge and experience it is assessed that it is primarily the rearing of mussels that will be practical and economically feasible. The draft law could apply to aquaculture, which will be set up or expanded after the entry into force of the expected regulation, that is to say only thereafter. Musling farming as a compensatory marine agent works by the mussels, and they are mussels, grown in coastal waters or in marine waters affected by nutrient discharges from a sea farm. There is scientific evidence of compensatory effect through projects carried out, inter alia: by Aarhus University and DTU, where we have the opportunity to supervise this effectively. However, the vast majority of nutrients discharged from marine farming are present as dissolved nitrogen and phosphorus. Denmark has great potential and a long tradition of aquaculture production. Globally, aquaculture is a significant growth area, and Denmark has all the prerequisites for joining that part of the market. Demands will be made for amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus to be removed by marine means, and requirements for marine farming must be able to demonstrate that sufficient amounts of nutrients are effectively removed. And this is important. The Conservative People's Party agrees to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119131745	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the rapporteurs for the various comments. The aim of the bill is to create the opportunity for growth in the Danish aquaculture production. Aquaculture is a significant growth area worldwide, and Denmark has all the prerequisites for being part of that market. We have great potential. We have a long tradition of aquaculture production, including marine production, and the main obstacle to growth in Danish marine production is that marine agriculture emits nitrogen and phosphorus into the marine environment. The bill amends the environmental protection law and creates the legal basis for adopting rules that allow for the approval of marine farms which would otherwise not be able to obtain environmental approval because of their relationship with the marine environment. With the new rules, marine agriculture can be environmentally acceptable with conditions for the establishment and operation of compensatory marine instruments. The conditions may be imposed if no additional emissions can be allowed within the existing environmental space. And note this: the terms can be set if there is no need for marine farming to establish compensatory marine instruments that remove nutrients from the water in whole or in part. In this way, marine farming removes nutrients in coastal or marine waters that are affected by discharges from marine farming. Under the applicable environmental protection law, conditions may be laid down for an undertaking to limit or clean the discharge at source. A compensatory marine instrument does not cleanse the marine farm's discharge at source, but removes nutrients in the water area that marine farming affects with its discharge. In order to create the possibility of requiring compensatory marine measures, it is therefore necessary to amend the Environmental Protection Act. The rules adopted pursuant to the draft law will define which marine instruments may be used. Only marine instruments which have a proven effect and which can be controlled by self-control and supervision may be allowed. At present, there are two types of agents tested in Danish waters, and they are the rearing of mussels and the cultivation of seaweed. For these instruments, we have, on the basis of projects carried out by, among others, Aarhus University and DTU have scientific evidence for the compensatory effect, and we have the opportunity to monitor it effectively. It is also a clear answer to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who has frequently questioned whether there is scientific evidence to support it. This has come from both DTU and Aarhus University, and I don't think we need to discuss that part anymore. It is assessed that it is primarily the rearing of mussels that is useful and profitable as a marine instrument. This is due to the fact that the costs of seaweed cultivation are significantly higher than those of mussel farming and, at the same time, significantly more land-intensive. The mustlings remove a quantity of nutrient from the area to which the sea farm directly or indirectly emits. When the mussels are harvested, nutrients from the mussels that they have absorbed are removed from the water area. In this way, the negative environmental effects resulting from marine production will be reduced. The emissions already occurring from existing marine farms are included in nutrient load inventories prepared in the assessment of the status of the river basin plan. It is therefore only in connection with the environmental approval of new marine farms and environmental approval in connection with the expansion of existing marine farms that there will be a need and possibility to demand compensatory marine instruments. The resulting Order will specify the terms and conditions and how compliance with these Terms can be verified. There will be, among other things: be required for the amount of nitrogen and phosphorus to be removed by marine means and requirements for marine farming to be able to demonstrate that a sufficient quantity of nutrients is effectively removed. This ensures that the nutrient load of the marine industry remains within the permitted limits. Fishing from natural stocks of mussels and seaweed will not be included in the nutrient accounts. Only nutrients are removed in connection with the establishment of mussel farming by the aquaculture establishment or a seaweed plant that could be included. The bill expresses a desire for growth in the Danish aquaculture sector in balance with the marine environment. It creates jobs while maintaining the environmental protection we must. Then Enhedslisten's rapporteur also addressed a relationship around Endelave. In the Endelave case, the Board of Appeal annulled the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's environmental approval on the basis of a concrete assessment. In this context, however, the Board of Appeal did not address the compensatory effect of mussel farming and seaweed plants, which the Enhedslisten's rapporteur otherwise dealt with. More recent practice by the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board points out that the Environmental Protection Act does not provide sufficient powers to lay down conditions for compensatory marine measures in the approval of marine farms. But anti-pollution measures are, in the current environmental protection law, understood as measures to clean up at the source itself, as I also said in my speech. Therefore, the draft law lays down the basis for the application of clean-up measures which are not placed directly on the sea farm itself, so that they can be included as a condition for the approval of marine farms. It is also interesting to see that on 9 January 2017 the Danish Environmental Protection Agency announced environmental approval for the very sea farm at Endelave, which the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten spoke about. We are therefore talking about the relocation of an existing marine farm, which is situated in the same water area, and the relocation does not lead to any further pollution. The approval allows production equivalent to one-tenth of the previous Endelave aquaculture and does not include compensation. It is just to emphasise that coherence when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur dealt with it. With those words, I look forward to the further legislative process, and it is clear that it would be gratifying if the Radical Left and the Social Democrats were to accede to the bill when technical clarification has been made, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to a number of points which have been raised by the rapporteur. And by that I refer to the further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132343	We thank the Minister for the Environment and Food. There are three brief comments for the moment, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132351	I think it is essential to focus on whether there can be such instruments that can pull nutrients out of the sea and thus restore some of the balance that we should be working for. Now the Minister is pointing out that there should be some scientific evidence that mussel farming works, so I would like to hear from the Minister whether that evidence is the unfinished experiment in Skive Fjord, which has not yet been fully reported and which the Minister is considering as a basis for scientific evidence that mussel farming could now be an instrument that could be compensatory. Then I think this is a little grotesque, because it is a new principle if it is the case that you will politically accept increased pollution somewhere if you do a good deed somewhere else. It is like accepting increased pollution in Copenhagen if electric buses arrive in Aarhus. I don't think it's a good principle to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132453	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. With regard to Skive Fjord, the study on mussel production in Skive Fjord is the best basis so far for us to know how much costs are involved in the cultivation of mussels as a compensatory marine instrument, and there are some cost calculations here which cannot be transferred directly to other areas because there may be costs elsewhere. But there are also other studies by DTU Aqua, DCE, Aarhus University and the University of Southern Denmark's Biological Institute, just as DTU Vet and Aarhus University's Institute for Bioscience have made projects on nutrient uptake, among others. by the cultivation of seaweed. So there are various attempts that have been looked at. Marine farming in the Horsens Fjord area has also been carried out in large-scale production of mussels and seaweed. So there are different conditions, but I refer to the fact that it is scientifically documented, among other things. by Aarhus University, and since I know that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten emphasizes that scientific evidence from among others. Aarhus University is important, I am pleased that we can rely on it both, and that means that Enhedslisten can safely support this proposal. There is, of course, a dimension to this, which is also important, and which also addresses some of what Mr. Christian Poll speaks of in a general recital. When we are a country that can supply food production with a very, very low environmental impact, we have an obligation to take the lead in the paradigm too, otherwise we see that this kind of fish is produced in all kinds of other places in the world, imported into the Danish market with quite different environmental impacts, medicine consumption and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132628	We can talk a lot, but we do not get around the fact that we have increased pollution by 800 tonnes of nitrogen as a result of this legislation. If you can pick up a few kilos of nitrogen by cultivating a few mussels in some places, that is very possible, but I really think you should turn it around and say: let us now get some more experience of cultivating mussels and seaweed, let us get more measured on it, perhaps over a 5-year period, and then you might then be able to take the next step and say that we are now in a state where it is acceptable that there will be more sea farms. Does the Minister not think it would be reasonable to look after the interests of nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132705	I like it when Enhedslisten's rapporteur talks about growing a few mussels here and there. That is not the case. This is a big-scale experiment that's been conducted. It is a huge clam production that is being undertaken to collect the load that comes. It's not like some bathtub where you have three clams to sit on your side and pee. This is something that is documented, and it is also something that takes up a lot. So, for that reason alone, I would say that we should not wait because Denmark can take the lead in technology development. We have to document the effect of it, and then it may well happen that in 5 or 10 or 15 years we are even smarter and can make even more targeted efforts about it. This creates jobs, and it creates a healthy food product that the Danes can safely eat instead of some of the horrible pangasius fish and other things imported from Asia, which the Danes also eat, because they may not be fully aware of what the production conditions are like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132758	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132801	Thank you. I have two questions. One is in relation to the debate I have just heard here. The Minister mentions that we have an obligation to deliver food to the world, as we can do it in a good way. What I've heard about this industry is that the business in it actually consists primarily of producing eggs for the Japanese market. That's where the value lies. While the fish produced in these sea farms is of little value, because the quality is actually not super high. So that's the roe. And jobs are also questionable because Japanese workers come here and pull out the eggs and take them back with them. That's what I heard. I'm not sure which story is the right one. However, what I really want to ask is what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely that I think there is a strange imbalance in the proposal, because it says that if there is a significant pollution or risk of this, the supervisory authority can issue instructions to reduce nutrient load. But it may well be that that is not the problem, right here in this individual seafarm that we now have. What if it is medicine or co-formulants that create an extra pollution? Is it still the nutrient load that needs to be compensated for? And could we make an amendment that takes that into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119132925	I am not on the stand here on the platform knowing whether it is Japanese employees who come up and work on the Danish marine farms on a large scale. I've never heard of that. It is possible that there are some examples of this, but I think that when the Danish aquaculture industry has accepted this proposal as well, it is because it creates both growth and employment in Denmark. That is the experience I have of it, and that is also what has emerged from the work we have done. The rapporteur is, of course, welcome to table amendments, but I would just like to say that both medicine residues and nitrogen and phosphorus loads and the like have been taken into account when doing these things here. It is clear that there must be self-control and that there must be the possibility of supervision. So it's not a concern I share. But it is clear that we are of course looking with an open mind at what comes from the Alternative, because I think this is an incredibly good example of where the good words of the Alternative on a better world could actually be put into practice, because we are getting healthier food production, which is happening elsewhere in sometimes terrible circumstances. Here the generosity of the alternative to the world could actually be put into practice, and it would be gratifying, for once, to see it put into practice, including here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133037	Yes, but there I actually had a point about the fact that it is predatory fish that we are growing today, but that it might be better if we went for vegetarian fish, that is to say fish that have a vegetarian food basis, because then we do not have to contribute to overfishing. After all, fish are used as food for breeding predators, and what I have heard is that you use 21⁄2 kg of fish caught as feed to make 1 kg of farmed fish. If you now go the other way, using vegetarian fish and making installations on land, then you could really get a much more sustainable food production here. In my view, it would really move.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133127	I would recommend to the rapporteur of the Alternative before we have to have the second and third readings to go out to visit one of these aquaculture farms and see what practice actually is, because I think that could change the rapporteur's view of this situation. I would be delighted if I could manage to get a bill through the Danish Parliament, where the alternative also helped to create both growth and employment, while at the same time creating healthy food production with a low environmental impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133152	The next question is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133155	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would also like to thank you for a legislative proposal with the right intentions. As I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech, we are going to do so with an open mind, but we would like to clarify some uncertainties that might exist about the balance between whether we can significantly expand marine production and at the same time ensure that we comply with the rules that we need in the field of environmental protection and take care of our environment. The bill then says that compensatory marine measures can be put into effect, which is compensated in whole or in part. That is the point of the fact that it is entirely or partly what I am a little looking for, because later it says as well as I read out in my rapporteur's speech in the comments: 'Compensating marine instruments will, in isolation, have positive environmental consequences, but these will only partially neutralise the negative environmental consequences resulting from increased marine production. ▪ My question is just: how do we ever get there, that we can make demands that completely compensate for the negative environmental impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133259	So, there is no doubt that the more capable we become of measuring in terms of the conditions, the safer we can stay with regard to the emissions that are. Then I think we should also see it in the light of whether it is set up in areas where there is a deficit or a surplus in the nitrogen account. It is also one of the things that happens when you assess where you can place it. But, of course, we would like to try to clarify that point in relation to the further legislative procedure. I believe that there is no ambiguity in this and that there is a very, very good framework explanation for it. However, if this gives rise to questions, as I have been able to hear here in the debate prior to my own speech, then it is clear that we are interested in clarifying this to the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133342	That sounds good, and we just have to take it slow in committee. There is another element that may come in a little from the side line that I would like to ask. When we turn agricultural production into a more targeted regulation, it takes the lead in the sub-water catchment areas where agriculture is located, at least that is what the government is proposing. Are we sure that any additional emissions from sea-farming will not affect farm production on land?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133418	So, I would like to give a clear answer, yes, because this is an important work we have been looking at, both in relation to our river basin plans and to how that burden will be in the individual coastal water catchments and also in the sub-water catchments. So the simple answer is yes, but there is always greater complexity when it comes to our river basin planning efforts. That is why we can try to get closer to it in committee, but basically the simple answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133448	Then we thank the Minister for the Environment and Food. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133504	We are opening the negotiations, and the first is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119133545	I was just wondering if the President was reading the entire bill. But it's a long and comprehensive title, so it takes a little time to get through. It is also a hugely comprehensive legislative proposal with a huge impact on both the agricultural industry and the environment, which we are about to discuss. Unfortunately, I have to start by saying that we see time and time again that the government has set in motion a very hasty process of a complicated legislative proposal which deals with agriculture. That's not good enough, and it's not good enough at all, given that this bill is so comprehensive. I think that on the last page is page 211, so that's a lot of complex pages you have to go through. That is why I also have a rewarding hope that we can agree on a more realistic timetable for dealing with the legislative proposal than the one proposed at the present time. This is something we have to discuss in the parliamentary committee immediately after this legal procedure. Specifically, the draft law is five parts. Firstly, it is proposed that the regulation of housing and manure application on field areas should be separated so that in future the decisions of the municipal council will only cover the facilities, while the regulation of application areas will be done through general rules without prior authorisation or approval. Secondly, the rules on levels of protection in the current environmental authorisation scheme are being transformed into new general requirements for application areas. Through the new general rules, the government wants to limit the environmental impact of nitrogen, phosphorus, ammonia and zinc. Thirdly, the harmonic limit for application of manure from certain animal species is raised to correspond to the upper limit of 170 kg nitrogen per nitrate directive. acres. Fourthly, it is proposed that the production framework should be established on the basis of the number of square metres of production area rather than on the basis of the number of animals, as this is a better expression of actual agricultural emissions. As a last and fifth thing, the government's lease model from the food and agriculture package is being rolled out in the form of a voluntary post-crop scheme, which is probably more voluntary in name than for benefit, in which the government has introduced a guarantee of environmental impact by making it possible to reduce the amount of nitrogen that agriculture has to produce in cases where farmers do not supply the post-crop crops that have been registered. In the Social Democratic Party, we are concerned to ensure that agriculture is regulated more specifically and smarter. At the same time, we want the regulation of Danish Agriculture to be broadly anchored in the Folketing, so that there is tranquillity about the agricultural framework conditions. As this proposal is a step towards a more targeted and smarter regulation of Danish Agriculture, as we proposed in our wake-up plan for food, we generally agree with the basic ideas behind the new regulatory model contained in the bill. We want to separate field and barn areas and we want to simplify approval processes. That is why we would like to reach an agreement with the government as a starting point. The agricultural industry needs a broader and more stable majority behind their framework conditions. Of course, this also leads me to our main concerns. In order for us to reach an agreement, we need to know the consequences of this bill. This applies, of course, both to the economic consequences, but in particular to the consequences for the protection of our nature and the environment. As I have said, we would like to bring about peace in the framework of Danish agriculture. That calm can be achieved by ensuring an agreement in balance, where we are also sure that the European Union does not come up with new requirements, as we saw with the catch crops. Against this background, the Social Democrats want us to be able, through a very thorough committee procedure which, as I said, I hope the government will support us to have the necessary time and, on the basis of a very real wish, to clarify the points I have just raised. We are sorry that the government has so far rushed through agricultural policy in the Folketing. Let us now do it properly this time, so that we can have a proper process and hopefully reach the broad consensus that can calm the future regulation of Danish Agriculture. Against this background, we look forward to the committee reading and I hope that we in the Folketing can agree on a proper process in which we can clarify the consequences of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134032	Thank you. I am glad that the Socialist rapporteur can sort out checkpoints and say OK. to the principles of this bill on targeted environmental regulation, etc. I think that is a good thing, and it is also very much in line with the work of the former Socialist-led government, and then it is fair that there are a lot of things that need to be clarified in the committee procedure that will come up. Then it is also the case that it would be a good idea to get into place, that with this bill we can say that the level of environmental protection in this change is neutral. I would just like to say that, in the context of the forthcoming committee procedure, we will have a check sign attached to it via the various questions that will probably be put to us, and then the track should have been chalked up, and it should have been opened up for the Socialist side to vote in favour of this bill at the third reading too. So what we need now is not just to get through good committee handling and get a check sign that it is also a neutral level of environmental protection that is being maintained with this bill and then the matter is ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134141	I should like to acknowledge the government for taking up good ideas from previous governments about separating fields and stables. The thinking set is right and it is the right way to go in relation to the regulation of agriculture. You could say that's the framework for everything. Then comes the question of where the concrete ceilings for phosphorus and the specific limits for the various things are laid down, and that is where we have already seen that in the consultation answers that have been received, among other things. from the National Association of Municipalities, which I remember it is not known as such a very biased consultation party in this area has raised some questions. We have some of the same. It is clear that, if you can get within the wheel in relation to environmental protection, you have made a sensible model, and that is what we will try to get the drill out of the committee procedure. We go, as I say, very constructively into this and with an open mind, as Mr. Carsten Bach got translated "openminded" to a little earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134241	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134243	Thank you. I think that's fine. It is just as it should be, in other words, that you have to ask some questions and clear things off, and the rapporteur then mentions one point of attention. This could also give rise to the possibility of getting rid of whether it is the case that the Social Democrats, so to speak, are looking for the hair in the soup, and if one can find a single hair in the soup, then it will give rise to a vote no. Or is it the case that, in the end, we will take the overall assessment of it and say that it has now been reimbursed, I am counting on it and that at the end of this committee we can check that the level of environmental protection as a whole is neutral? Is it the hair in the soup that you are looking for, if I may say so, to find a way not to be able to vote for it, or do you really want to get into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134331	We're not looking for any hair in the soup. We are looking for a runway for this bill, so that we can have a broad and good stability behind the agricultural framework. That is what I have heard about agriculture, even last night and this morning, and that is what we are looking for in this. However, in connection with this bill, it cannot be ignored that there are already players who, of course, have very strong scientific and environmental insights that have raised some questions. There are also more neutral observers in this, which I consider, among other things. KL as being, there have raised some attention points. Whether it's hair in the soup or whatever it is, I don't know, but it's certainly something that means that there are some issues in the legislative proposal that need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134419	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur and move forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134426	Thank you. As the Socialist rapporteur said, this is a legislative proposal on a great many sides. You get a little tired of reading at some point, I think. At least it's a big bill. However, it is not as large as the Public Service Act, I would hurry to say, as I did at the time. What I think is important about this bill is, in fact, that when we implement this agreement that the Danish People's Party has with the current government, we are going to have this shift that I think we all agree on, and we are going to end this by saying that there is not necessarily a connection between how many animals you have and how big a field you have. We have some environmental requirements to comply with, and we have some air requirements that we have to comply with; there are smells that must not be there and I do not know what. There's a lot of things. I think it's a good thing you make this separation. I think this is a bureaucratic relief for agriculture. I believe that there is an easier approach to achieving growth in agriculture. And, as in the previous case, namely the one on aquaculture, I think it is actually very relevant. It is a political choice that we have made. We want growth in this sector. We would like there to be growth in aquaculture. It's a political choice. I recognise that from the bottom of my heart. But I also think that we have always had a goal ahead of us and said that it must not affect the environment. I don't think this does either. It is possible that there are some things that need to be resolved. I hope that the Social Democratic Party will also be able to join this agreement. I think it would be very good to have a large, broad agreement. I also think that the Socialist rapporteur opens the door to this. I do not know whether it is to drag things out or to make a real wish, but I certainly hope the latter. I can see that the rapporteur is nodding. In fact, I think it is important for the industry that it is important for all of us to have an agreement that is also long-lasting. I think that we have been discussing the food and agriculture package for a very long time, and I am well aware that when we get the legislative procedure, there will always be some issues, but I really hope that we can clarify this so that it can also be supported by parties other than the parties to the agreement. That is my sincere wish, because it will be good for the industry. I mean, basically, this whole paradigm shift is for the benefit of all of us. I think it will also make it easier. It is also my very clear view that the environment is not harmed. And the last thing I want to say is that if, if we are wrong on that point, there is, and I am just mentioning it again, a clear agreement between the parties to the agreement that we will meet, because then we will have to do something about it, because our intention is not that there should be any more pork. With those words, I think it is clear to everyone that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134742	Thank you. Thus, there is a question from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Simon Kollerup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134748	It is there, and it is just to reaffirm the good intentions of wanting to get to the bottom of this. However, I also need to flag the criticism with which I started my rapporteur's speech, and this is about the timetable for this bill. As I remember from our agenda to the meeting that will start here soon, in our committee, we will have to be ready by 8 February, and I therefore see some challenges in that. I therefore ask the rapporteur, in his capacity as rapporteur, but also in his capacity as chairman of the committee, whether the Danish People's Party does not also see any challenges in the timetable on which we have to work here. In other words, if there is a real desire to try to find a runway for a broad settlement, would there not be anything wrong with us being able to use the time required? There is a very complex paradigm change as regards the way to separate stables and fields. As I read the papers, this has been under preparation for several years. That we should then legalize it in 14 days or 3 weeks, I think maybe it's a trick too fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134852	I am not going to stand here and comment on the timetable. That is something we should decide on later, I think. But I would like to make my comments on that. If the Social Democratic Party sincerely believes that, and I think this is clear, you want to clarify some questions, get answers to the uncertainties you have, etc., then I have no doubt that then the Minister and the Ministry will also be very, very helpful. We have had a technical examination of the matter because it is complex, but I am also sure that the Ministry will be very helpful if there is something extraordinary if there is something that is said to be simply not understood. Precisely because it is as complex as it is, one will also be helpful. I have no doubt about that at all. Whether the timetable should be in one way or another, I think we should take it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134942	There are no more questions, so we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119134954	Thank you. The amendment to the livestock law, which we will then have to deal with first here today, has been under discussion for a very long time, in fact for several years, and therefore it is also very positive that we now have a proposal for new rules for our livestock farmers, a proposal for new rules which can help to ensure simplification, both for the farmer and for the municipalities. The draft law then removes a number of bureaucratic obstacles, and it is positive for both farmers and for our common environment and nature that something is now being done about this. In addition to simplification, flexibility within a given framework and speedy processing are the cornerstone of the new livestock legislation, which will ensure that livestock production can develop smoothly in the future. The law provides for the separation of the rules for application of manure from the rules governing the discharge from the barn. That is to say, as has also been said, we have a separate field and stable in regulation, as it were. It is important for me to point out that it is not the intention to change the protection of nature or the environment with this proposal; it aims only to make it easier for the farmer to adapt to the needs of the market and to use the possibilities of introducing new technology. The proposal is, as it were, environmentally neutral, in terms of protection. The spread of manure on land must be regulated in the future in general rules, and this actually means that in the future all manure will be subject to general regulation and not, as in the past, just the manure coming from environmentally approved plants. It will also be possible to spread 170 kg N per year. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the And in this context, as something new, phosphorus requirements are being introduced, as it is called "recipient ceilings', which also help to ensure the level of environmental protection. In addition, if there is an increase in livestock pressure in an area, the aquatic environment will be dealt with, for example. extra livestock catch crops, i.e. precisely an expression of the new targeted environmental regulation. The stalls are regulated in the future, compared to how much they emit, rather than how many pigs or chickens or cows go into the barn. In other words, you look at the barn facilities in the same way as you look at commercial buildings in the other context. It makes better sense in relation to the environment. Nature is not affected by the number of pigs in a barn, but by the discharge that may come from them. Therefore, the focus is the better and more right and targeted. The transition from a limit on the number of animals produced in the barn to the emissions from the barn also means that as long as they comply with animal welfare rules and emission limits, there is an opportunity for farmers to be more flexible than they are today, both to convert production and to manage it over a season or over a few years, for example, than we know it today, when we have been bound up with too much bureaucracy so far. We will have a regulation that is also more in line with EU rules and that is similar to the one we know from other professions and from industry, which I have also mentioned in the past. It will also provide incentives to invest in environmental technology when adapting and expanding its production. This is a legislative amendment which, as I said, has been in the pipeline for a long time, and I have also noted that back in 2011, the livestock regulation committee made recommendations that are in line with the proposal that we are now dealing with. In the livestock regulation committee, green organisations, KL, special experts and the industry sat around the table and recommended a separation of land and facilities, as we have already mentioned. The Nature and Agriculture Commission made the same recommendation, as did the then Socialist-led government in their food growth plan. Now is the time to put action behind words and get these things realized. I therefore hope, of course, that we will be able to have a good committee at a later stage and thus have a broad support for the proposal. On that basis, of course, the Left supports the bill and will vote for it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119135428	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119135436	In the Enhedslisten, we are basically positive about the intention of the bill to provide a regulation that is simpler and more flexible and predictable for the farmer and that makes it easier and simpler for the farmer to understand the production potential. But the purpose of this is going in the wrong direction. After all, it is a question of cementing an industrial agriculture. All this about the fact that one could have an agriculture with some harmony, a holistic agriculture where there was a connection between livestock and field farming, and perhaps there were some cooperative relations in the area which enabled one to have a farming that was in harmony, is not what is driving this change of law. When we can see at the same time that there is an uplifting of the harmony requirement from 140 kg N to 170 kg N, and then you start immediately trying to write yourself out that it causes some problems with phosphorus, and you have to try to figure something out, then you have a problem. The draft law contains a great many concerns and a lack of description of its consequences for nature, the environment and health and the economy. I'm gonna take a few. The proposal would probably run counter to the EU Water Framework Directive, as it could reduce the state of many Danish lakes by increasing phosphorus emissions. This contrasts sharply with the administration of the authorities, according to the Order on action programmes for river basin districts. The proposal provides for the introduction of ceilings for phosphorus which are considerably higher than the amount that the crop can absorb. In areas with high phosphorus and low bottom soils, therefore, a significant risk of leaching of phosphorus from these fields will arise. In addition, the proposal states that it is only after 2022 that a decision can be taken on how best to protect ourselves against the decline in sensitive aquatic environments caused by phosphorus, so that the necessary regulation of phosphorus for its protection will only be implemented at a later stage. It does not add up if we want to take our nature and environmental protection seriously. The proposal removes the targeted protection of groundwater and allows for additional emissions. The protection status to date is only partially and possibly ensured through some catch crops. The aim of the proposal is to ensure groundwater through action plans, but action plans must only protect the general drinking water interests and the approx. 50,000 non-almene water supplies in rural areas are not protected. The proposal does not mention this. The proposal does not deal with the health aspects of increased pollution of non-always water supplies in rural areas, and the proposal does not address groundwater bodies outside areas with particular drinking water interests. The proposal does not therefore necessarily guarantee good conditions in drinking water and groundwater bodies. The proposal allows for additional emissions and could therefore impair the status of groundwater bodies. It is therefore uncertain whether the law complies with EU law, for example. the groundwater directive. The proposal will mean that a large number of farms will be allowed to increase pollution, and it will have to be paid by other citizens through water companies and municipalities, and the extent and consequences have not been explained. It is clear from the draft law that there will be an increased impact on environmental impacts and that there will be a geographical shift in the load. However, there is no explanation of where there is a concrete risk of increased stress, including whether valuable natural areas such as: Natura 2000 sites will be threatened. The bill also seems to be in breach of the habitats directive, because it does not have to take into account in future the plants and animal species that we have a special obligation to protect and help. It is clear, therefore, that the draft law is at odds in several places or directly in conflict with several obligations under the directive. In the Enhedslisten we do not understand that the government looks so lightly at this relationship. We certainly do not feel safe in relation to Denmark coming on a collision course with the European Union again. However, there seems undoubtedly to be a common thread in the way we go all the way to the line, and perhaps sometimes over the line, which has been used in connection with the manure law, where the post-play with the European Union is far from over. The Enhedslisten does not understand why the government, with its open eyes, wants to put environmental protection at risk, even while the European Commission remains critical of the contentious agricultural package. It is against this background that the Enhedslisten is currently unable to support the proposal. We are looking with horror at the timetable for dealing with this proposal. It is totally unrealistic to be able to ask all the questions that need to be asked within the time limit for replying. And I wouldn't want to be hired if I had to answer all those questions within the time limit for replying. This is quite unfair handling of a major issue, and I would therefore like to appeal for us not to adopt anything that will take effect from 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119135947	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119135954	Thank you. Just one thing: I noticed that the Enhedslisten rapporteur also said that this legislative package should cement industrial agriculture. Nothing can be more wrong. This is about creating development. So this isn't just about Enhedslisten wanting, so to speak, to remove, disintegrate, eradicate industrial agriculture? Of course, there are export problems and a lot of other problems, but Enhedslisten doesn't usually take care of that much. Isn't it about just wanting to fight the agricultural industry, conventional agriculture, so that in the end, what we can only fully agree on is that we also need just to have niche products and regional specialities and farm products and the things that are aimed at the domestic market? Is this not just about the fact that Enhedslisten will use every opportunity at all costs to combat conventional agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140041	No, but since it's a bill that has to do with raising the harmony requirement up to 170 kg N per year. This is an increase of 30 kg per hectare. This means that there is a significant increase in pollution that has occurred. And what happens when you look down the lyrics? Well, then you can see that you have to relate to the fact that when you bring out more manure, you will also bring out more phosphorus, and there you can see that there will be a problem. So far there are many areas where the soil has been able to accept the increased phosphorus, although the plants that were grown have not been able to absorb it. We come to a saturation point, and then it really is that we get into what can be called deep shit, where there will be massive contamination with phosphorus in our aquatic environment, which has not been taken into account in this bill. You start working with ceilings, but that is not enough at all. The imbalance that can occur in a lake, if there is too much phosphorus, is not corrected in just a few years. That's why we need to prevent and this bill doesn't put up with it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140141	When the level of environmental protection in this bill is overall neutral, then it should be possible to check it, and then Enhedslisten should not have any problems with it either. We are all concerned that we do not go out and strain and destroy our environment. Nobody really wants to do that. Then there may be a number of other environmental challenges to which we must also follow up. The rapporteur mentions the lakes. There may be some challenges there that we need to adjust to. But this is also about getting on with targeted environmental regulation, so that we can do exactly where we need it. So on that basis, the Enhedslisten should actually vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140224	The problem with the whole agricultural package is that you want to give some relief, and then perhaps you will come up with a system that might create some harmony for agriculture, and that is a wrong approach. We had to find the sustainable solutions first, implement them, and then we could measure whether it would mean that some places in the country could have suffered more livestock, and whether on some of the heavy soils it could well be accepted that there were a little more livestock, while at the same time there are other areas with sandy soils where there should certainly be fewer livestock. And that is the development that is not guaranteed by the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140257	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140307	This bill is partly a follow-up to the agreement on the food and agriculture package and also follows recommendations from the Nature and Agriculture Commission. There has long been a great need for simplification of the authorisation system for our livestock production. From the very beginning, there have been quite incalculably long processing times, a huge bureaucracy and administrative hassle about even the smallest changes in the circumstances of each farm. The proposal here will improve those conditions and ensure a more directive-by-law implementation of the rules as well as increase the flexibility and freedom of the agricultural industry. At the same time, we are actually able, overall, to maintain the same high level of environmental protection that we have today and to ensure that we do not shrink from the state of our surface water and groundwater. The proposal separates the field and the barn, thus removing agricultural land completely from the environmental approval, and all talk about the number of animal units per year. Acres can mute. Instead, the land will be regulated more generally in the future with a now raised level of harmony and control through the fertiliser accounts for each farm. In addition, a new so-called roadside model for the regulation of livestock farming has been introduced. Obviously, the Liberal Alliance supports that. There are, however, some points of attention which can be appropriately highlighted here, and that is because I know there is a rather hollow and incomplete knowledge of our phosphorous cycle, and we in the Liberal Alliance would very much like that strengthened in the future. Fortunately, the phosphorus ceilings laid down in the Act can be increased by the use of measurements on each farm, and this is very important. Furthermore, the basis of the draft law is also full use of the newly allocated nitrogen quotas, which does not seem to be happening in reality, and we are therefore entirely on the safe side with regard to nitrogen leaching and, as such, the law is also an expression of a kind of belt and belt approach. In their consultation responses, agricultural organisations focus very much on the many new as well as old post-harvest schemes and the administrative structure of these, which unfortunately is not covered by the present legislation, but it tells me that we, i.e.. the parties behind the law, which can hopefully include more parties than the parties behind the food and agriculture package, must have a great deal of focus on the next step, where the law, which should in fact be two laws, must be implemented out in reality. In this context, it is particularly important that notices and guidelines are put in place as soon as possible and that the rules are transparent and unambiguous. Last but certainly not least, it is a little regrettable to me that, in this context, it has not only been possible to do so through voluntary action, but that there must then appear to be a threat of quota reduction if, for one reason or another, the definition of catch crops is prevented, and I would like to regret that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140708	In doing so, we would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119140718	As a starting point, the alternative is favourable to a new regulation which is simpler, more flexible and provides greater predictability for the farmer. But I'd like to deal with several things here. First of all, I want to address the process. I think it is a bad idea to rush through a huge upheaval in legislation, which this is actually going to be in a very short space of time. It's not the first time we've seen it. I understand that the parties out there have been negotiating this for years and now we have to deal with it in a few weeks here in Parliament. It is a democratic injustice because it makes me, as a member of the Folketing and the few people I have to help me, face very high pressure to understand all the aspects of this legislation and to relate to what it will mean to what matters to us, especially nature and the environment. It can be quite difficult to see through, especially when you're dealing with so many different legal texts, and especially when you're dealing with something where you kind of throw it all up in the air in order to let it fall down in a new way. So I hope this is the last time the government does this. I have not yet received an argument for this to happen so quickly, because, as I have said, the negotiations have taken years to come. Why do we have to rush this through now? With regard to the issue of separating the regulation of the barn from the land, it could be positive. But I immediately note that Ecological Landsforening says that it may not make much sense on organic farming, where you just try to have local cycles for both your nutrients and other materials. That is why Ecological Landsforening is actually proposing an ecological track that does not separate things. And since the alternative is concerned that we convert to one hundred percent organic production in 24 years from now, even it is basically a bad idea. When I read at the same time the hearings of some of those who are deeply involved, I can see that there is a great deal of concern. I would particularly like to highlight some of what the Danish Nature Conservation Association has written. They are concerned that this proposal is contrary to the EIA directive, because there is no need to make a concrete assessment of livestock projects. They mention that the proposal does not provide for adequate protection of groundwater and they also emphasise that there is a significant reduction in the current level of protection of phosphorus surpluses. They also point out that the draft is in fact intended to regulate only on the basis of ammonia emissions, i.e. emissions in terms of noise and odour and transport with fly genes, nuisances for residents, problems in relation to landscape values and natural and outdoor life, etc. etc. there is nothing regulated in this context. So I am concerned, and that is why, as a starting point from the alternative, we cannot support the hasty process of a legislative proposal that is so comprehensive and will change things so much without there seem to be a complete control of the environmental and nature impacts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141116	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141121	Thank you. When I heard the first part of the rapporteur's speech, I was delighted. For the rapporteur said that this is something new, that it is a break-up, and I assume that the rapporteur also thought about moving on to targeted environmental regulation and the separation of fields and stables. After all, there are many things that are completely new, and there I just got to think that it was absolutely right. But then I was interrupted in my mind, because then there came this big but-- and it wasn't just a small but-- It was a big but... And then all the embarrassment that the rapporteur, with both the magnification and the tweezers, had subsequently found came. There was a very good opening line, but when it comes to putting action behind the words, you won't be there. I'm actually wondering. Because it's pretty much clear that the intention and the bottom line of this is that in that change, the level of environmental protection is neutral. There may be some confusion that needs to be clarified, and we have the committee procedure for that. The question then is whether the alternative could vote in favour when it has been clarified, that is to say that it has been established that it is also environmentally neutral in its conversion, and that this is the new break, etc. etc. Could it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141244	There are two aspects to this which make me worried and sceptical. One is that I hear that the environmental impact may not be fully controlled. And it is not just on one point, but on several points. So I would like to say that there is a lot to be done so that I can feel safe just on that point. But then, as I mentioned, there is the consultation answer from the Danish Organic Association, where they say that it may well be that it offers greater flexibility in conventional agriculture. But for organic farming it may not make much sense. After all, organic farming is working to have a local cycle, such as: is about nutrients and soil improvement at all. And if there is a regulation based on spreading things in the East and West, in other words manure, then it will be something quite different from what is needed in organic farming. So there are actually two things that make it look like nothing that for us is the way forward. The positive entry I made is, of course, that we want simpler rules. We can be simpler rules, but we do not like lax rules. We want rules which are simple and easy to understand, but which provide a high level of natural and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141409	Thank you. Well then, the conclusion of the answer is that this isn't so much about looking at it environmentally. This is about how the alternative will have closed down conventional agriculture and then bet a hundred percent on ecology. It is, of course, a political line to take, but then it is just weird that you start drawing forward, that there is uncertainty about the environmental aspect and the details of it. That's not what this is about. It's about some other things... and thank you for that clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141439	We highlight the concerns we have about the environmental impact of this, and we also want to see a change in Danish agriculture over a 24-year period to one hundred percent organic production.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141457	There's one more questioner. This is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141503	Well, that was just one of the things the rapporteur said, which I just overwhelmed. For the rapporteur says and now the rapporteur must correct me if I misunderstood that all this regulation makes little sense for organic farming. But my question must then be, if I have understood it correctly: is organic farming damaging? Well, one thing is that you want more organic farming. That's fair enough. It is an attitude to have, just as some may not. I think it should be up to the farmers themselves, whether they like one or the other, but that we should create a framework for both scenarios. But my question is a little bit: maybe this proposal does not make sense in relation to organic farming, but does it harm organic farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141545	It would, of course, be detrimental in the sense that if we are in the process of converting to organic farming in general in Denmark, it is foolish to make a regulation that does not fit that form of production. So it may not hurt right now or here, but this isn't something you do every day. It is a huge reconstruction of the whole regulation of livestock farming and if it is designed so that it primarily supports conventional farming, then it is actually harmful in relation to the development we would like to see in the alternative and which we can also see happening out there. After all, there is a record this year as regards how many people want conversion and are in the process of converting to organic production.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141633	However, as I understand it, the rapporteur believes that by making this change, there will be fewer organic farmers. That's what I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141646	I'm not gonna be able to say that. What I am referring to is that in the hearing from the Danish Organic Association it says that the way it is arranged here, this roadside model, would be inappropriate in relation to organic farming. I do not know if there will be less of the model, but it will certainly not be targeted organic farming. And it may even become more troublesome for them, and that is the very opposite of what we want. We would like it to be simpler and, above all, easier if you are an ecologist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141719	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Well, then, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, reached the platform with his breath in good order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141728	This time without running there, yeah. As with the two previous legislative proposals, I must inform you that Mrs Ida Auken is abroad. That is why I have to read out the Radical Left's position on the bill. Radical Left has long been working for a more modern regulation of agriculture, less focus on processes and more focus on the livelihood, namely less pollution. We support the regulatory model implemented by the law, namely that plants are now separated from land. So you can now have a livestock farm and then you will be regulated according to the emissions that come from the farm, not according to the number of animal units you have per. acres. It reminds us of the way we regulate other industries and other industries. However, there are a number of problems, as you can see when you look into the details of the legislative proposal, which we want to get drilled into committee reading. Firstly, some of the consultations point to a weakening of the protection of groundwater against nitrate. Secondly, there are primary requirements for ammonia, but it is not clear whether there will still be the same requirements for smell and noise and the location of installations on the grounds of landscape considerations. Thirdly, Ecological Landsforening considers that more extensive agriculture will be affected by this model. This has been partially accepted in the consultation note, but the Radical Left also wants to go deeper into that issue in the committee's proceedings. Fourthly, there is not the same protection of heathens and excesses as of other natures. The government explicitly states that they will examine whether it is necessary to take account of these habitat types. This is unwise, since heats and excesses are very sensitive to ammonia, which the draft law is just about. In other words, the Radical Left is in favour of the regulatory model itself, but right now we have a number of issues that we would like to have clarified before we finally decide whether we are in favour or against the legislative proposal that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141937	Thank you to the rapporteur. One brief comment was made. It's from Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119141944	I just have one question as to whether radicals will be as prepared as the Social Democrats to have a positive approach to it, so they also say: this paradigm shift that is going on is actually good enough, and we have some clearing questions. I fully understand that, because this is a complex work. It's just a follow-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142006	I said that in the speech I read on behalf of Mrs Ida Auken. We think it is excellent that the number of hectares and the number of animals is separated from each other. It doesn't make sense. You can easily have a lot of animals, but you have made a lot of measures, which means that you do not pollute very much. Then you are actually held back as a farmer and should not have so many animals because you do not have enough hectares to spread the manure on. At the same time, nature suffers because it may involve some land for farming for no other reason than that it can then be allowed to have some animals in the barn, so the paradigm shift is excellent. That is very good, so we support it. Then there's the question of which direction you go in this paradigm. We're gonna have to drill it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142050	There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142100	SF would very much like to help the agricultural industry with simplified environmental rules and shorter processing times. However, it is difficult to do so on the basis of a legislative proposal which already has a majority with the votes of the blue blocs and whose basic assumption is that environmental protection should be just the same as today and, by the way, not ensure that Denmark complies with EU legislation. Even assuming that the present draft law maintains the current protection of nature, groundwater and the environment, that is not enough. The current level of protection leads to the impoverishment of nature, health damage, nitrate leaching to groundwater, loss of phosphorus, which is a limited resource, oxygen loss and loss of biodiversity. A precondition for SF is that the level of environmental protection must be raised, so that we, among others, have to: ensure that we achieve the environmental and natural objectives. A concrete example is that the Minister and other ministers before him in the bowl speeches would like to emphasise the need to stop the decline in biodiversity and habitats by 2020. This is also clear from the government base: we will therefore give priority to efforts to halt the decline in biodiversity. When we're back in everyday life, it's business as usual. The present proposal counteracts efforts to improve the conditions of nature and biodiversity. The general regulation of the ammonia load of nature ensures only a small area of ammonia sensitive natural areas, namely those categorized as natural state category I, and certainly not those natural areas that are already suffering and are heavily burdened. The Ministry is in the process of clarifying whether category II, heaths and excesses, which are large areas, should also be protected. Category III falls completely out of priority for various reasons. Among other things: Reference is made to the fact that it is § 3 - protected. I guess IV and V are gone. It is good to give priority to action according to the firefighter principle, but if you choose to differentiate ammonia protection according to the state of nature by allowing increased strain on natural areas in poor and/or poor natural conditions, you will inevitably create a deterioration in the condition of the areas. The bill therefore counteracts the government's basis. General ammonia regulation should at least ensure the protection of all ammonia-sensitive natural areas, and this would be an administrative simplification that benefits biodiversity, including those species that we are directly obliged to provide special protection. It will also reduce the foreseeable conflict between the municipalities' green land map and the desire of agriculture to include nature as a fallout area for the ammonia that evaporates from the agricultural area. After all, agriculture is more important in Denmark than the area owned by farmers. In the committee's work, the SF will go into depth with it and other parts of the impact of the bill on the environment, water, health, nature and biodiversity. We agree that the pathway model is as far as we can get today, but when will we get a regulation that equates livestock production with other production? What we want is for the individual emissions of ammonia, greenhouse gases and so on to be given concrete conditions. With regard to phosphorus, a national phosphorous plan is needed so that we do not erode a limited resource. It is outside the scope of the law, I know, but the law should at least help to minimise phosphorus loss. As far as the socio-economic aspect is concerned, it may be an economic advantage for pig producers who supply piglets for slaughter in Germany, but what about the value of society, for example. when compensating for increased greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector or heating houses? All in all, the SF cannot support the bill as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142510	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142514	Thank you. I was thinking that then I think that virtually all politicians can agree that where there may be an environmental problem, we must take action and do something about it. At least I have not heard anyone say the opposite. This is exactly what the targeted environmental regulation is all about, and so the aim should be to get this put in place, if really be music in the ears of the SF too. That is why I cannot understand why that principle cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142543	But I also said that, in a way, I recognise this with the principle of the firefighter, that is to say that we are putting in where there is real nature and the environment to protect, so it is in the most important part of nature. But not all the other areas are included, and it may be a battle side that they have been left out in environmental regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142607	But moving on to targeted environmental regulation is a principle, you might say, precisely in order to get the approach to what I mentioned before, namely that where there is a problem, you have to do something about it. Could we not encourage the SF to try to get a little constructive into this, including now in committee? I'm sure you'll do that, even with the glasses you wear in the SF. But it is also in order to try to say whether you could not find a stepping stone to perhaps try to consider and then clarify, if I may say so, the basis for this. It is, of course, the level of environmental protection that must be neutral, and then it is the case that on other occasions it has to be said that, where there is a specific problem, we have to solve it, precisely with the new targeted environmental regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142654	There's a little back swim in this. Because that's what you're talking about. You're not gonna regulate until the problem is there. In other words, we are also in favour of protection in the form of preventive environmental and natural regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142707	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142715	Thank you. The draft law implements parts of the Agreement on the Food and Agriculture Package from 22 December 2015 and a number of elements also follow up the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission. The aim of the bill is to create greater flexibility and administrative simplifications for livestock farmers, taking into account nature and the environment, and to ensure shorter processing times for the authorisation and environmental approval of livestock farming, and this is certainly needed. The bill divides the regulation so that in future the municipal council's decisions on the authorisation or approval of livestock farming will only include plants, i.e. houses and containers etc., while the regulation of land will be done through general rules without prior authorisation or approval. The rules on levels of protection in the current environmental authorisation scheme are being changed to new and general requirements for land, so that overall environmental protection is the same as today. The draft law raises the harmonic limit for the spread of manure so that it corresponds to the upper limit of 150 kg nitrogen per nitrate directive. acres. The leaching of nitrate into the aquatic environment is met by post-crops requirements which can be exchanged for existing alternative instruments. From now on, the production framework is determined on the basis of the number of square metres of production area rather than on the basis of the number of animals, because newer knowledge shows that the loss of ammonia from stables is more related to the size of the golden surfaces than to the number of animals. Overall, it is very reasonable that production areas and land should be separated. It provides more measurements, fewer calculations, more measuring stations. The conversion is environmentally neutral while achieving significant administrative improvements and simplifications. The Conservative People's Party agrees to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142924	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119142929	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I would say that I am incredibly pleased that we can now start discussing the legislative proposal to implement ideas and recommendations developed by successive governments in the light of years of experience with the authorisation and environmental approval of livestock farming. This is a major reform, in which we simplify and improve the rules while maintaining environmental protection. A separate livestock regulation was created with the first livestock legislation from 2007. There is now a need for a major change in regulation and the time has come to make it easier for farmers, for example. wishes to take advantage of the fact that there has been room for a little more animals in the stables or if the size of the animals has changed. Especially in relation to the land, it is now becoming easier. Today, large-scale calculations are often required in connection with applications, and farmers must report regularly to the municipalities if they lease new land or lose some leases. In general terms, we have to note that the environmental impact of all these concrete assessments and calculations in the current approvals does not fully measure up to the level of administrative work. This recognition that the rules for the environmental authorisation of livestock farming should be improved was already made clear in the context of the livestock regulation committee's reporting in 2011. Here, a wide range of stakeholders and experts recommended that the area part of the environmental authorisations could be handled with benefit through general rules, so that the environmental approval would cover only housing and storage facilities in the future. It was also recommended that plant regulation should be emission-oriented, i.e.: built up on the emissions of ammonia and odour to the surroundings, i.e. the actual emissions, instead of the number of animals in the barn, thus in the long term providing flexibility for environmentally efficient use of the housing facilities to the full without having to apply to the municipality for an extension. The recommendations were confirmed by the Nature and Agriculture Commission and in the "Agreement on the Growth Plan for Food" from spring 2014, which was concluded between all parties in the then Parliament except the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party. This included implementing a new emission-based regulation where the permit or authorisation no longer limits the number of animals produced and where the regulation should be separated, so that fertiliser use etc. on the land, separately from the regulation of the production plant itself. Finally, the objective of a new livestock regulation is included in the Agreement on the Food and Agriculture Package of 2015. We have been working for a long time on making these wishes concrete, and the government has put turbo on that work, so we are now ready to deal with the bill for which successive governments have agreed on the principles of the past few years. The bill implements the desire to separate the site part and the area part, where the area part is no longer to be dealt with in the individual environmental authorisations, but instead is handled through general rules without concrete assessments. Environmentally, it is necessary to address the impact of manure due to the expansion of livestock farming in relation to EU directives. Therefore, the draft law also includes the necessary requirements for reducing nitrate leaching, phosphorus accumulation, the ammonia impact of nature from fields, and the risk of surface loss of phosphorus via erosion and the use of zinc in livestock farming with piglets. The current level of environmental protection is maintained overall while achieving significant administrative improvements and simplifications. The draft law also introduces an emission-oriented plant regulation which incorporates greater flexibility to exploit the housing facilities, without the municipality necessarily having to be involved in it and spend time on it. A new and simple model has been found where farmers gain flexibility without cumbersome and expensive emission calculations or measurements. The model reflects the best professionalism in the field, indicating that ammonia emissions are more dependent on the barn surface than on the number of animals. By changing the focus from number of animals to barn surfaces, a more environmentally correct regulation is achieved where the use of the barn will automatically become more flexible. The level of protection of odour and ammonia, which are often at the heart of the environmental approval of the housing facilities, is introduced into the new regulatory model. On the construction side, it is also intended that we should maintain the overall level of environmental protection while achieving significant administrative savings and simplifications. I am therefore very much looking forward to having the bill implemented, as it is an important piece in reducing the administrative burden on the agricultural industry and ensuring that the development of the agricultural industry is supported by effective and proper processing. There will always be a transitional period when new rules are incorporated, where citizens, professions and authorities have to acquire knowledge of the new rules and IT systems and incorporate them into practice. It can't be avoided. It is a priority for the government to make the transition to the new rules as smooth as possible, and my expectation is that after a transitional period we will begin to reap the benefits of the new livestock regulation. We have learned from the experience of the 2007 Animal Approval Act and we have been systematically preparing for the roll-out of the new regulation for a long time. The work will be intensified until the new regulation enters into force on 1 August 2017. Not least, we have focused on the IT area, and we are already a long way from developing a modified and substantially developed IT application system. There are two levels in the bill. The first level is that we create a better, more efficient and up-to-date regulatory system. The second level concerns the level of environmental protection. Compared with the second level, there are no fundamental changes in the general level of environmental protection. However, there will be shifts when moving from a system based on individual permits to a system based on general regulation. I hope that the legislative proposal will create a robust and sustainable regulatory system in which the overall structure will have prospects for the long term. Whether there will subsequently be changes in relation to environmental protection levels is not something we decide with this legislation. Under the agreement on the nature package, we started work on the decision-making basis for the rules on ammonia emissions from the stables. In addition, gradual changes can continue to take place in line with technological developments, e.g.: in relation to housing systems and feed, improved knowledge of environmental impact, experience gained from other countries' regulations and changes in EU regulation. The fact that we have created a robust regulatory system serves both our protection of the environment and the interests of the Danish production industries. We look after our environment by having a regulation that is sustainable also in the long term and that meets our directive obligations to the European Union. At the same time, we take into account the fact that the industry has guarantees for their investments in new production facilities, jobs and environmental technologies by means of sustainable regulation, taking into account the protection of our nature and the environment and ensuring neighbours against possible nuisances. This is therefore a legislative proposal which implements the ideas and ideas that have been widely endorsed over several years: a new livestock regulation in which the industry and the authorities have significant administrative benefits and in which we maintain environmental protection. I therefore hope that we will also have a good dialogue in committee so that we can achieve a broad majority in favour of the legislative proposal. When the question arises as to why entry into force is necessary here on 1 March 2017 and whether the timetable cannot be changed in committee, I would like to recommend that it be noted that, when we have set 1 March as the date, it is of course for the farmers to be able to plan their fertiliser use and seedlings from after-crops. Fertilisation planning must be completed on 21 April in accordance with the existing rules of the Fertilisation Act and, in addition, it is a waste of time and of farmers' money if, after 1 March, municipalities are to continue to lay down conditions for application areas when the conditions are abolished and replaced by new general rules on 1 August 2017. But the Ministry will do what it can to facilitate the committee so that even the strict timetable can also contribute to the law coming into force on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119143738	We thank the Minister for the Environment and Food. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119143754	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 January 2017. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group)
ParlaMint-DK_20170119143818	The background to this debate is actually back in 2015. That was where the German Parliament officially recognised the Armenian genocide. At that time, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance got together and called for Denmark to follow suit and join the chorus of some 30 countries, including Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands and France, which have recognised the genocide of about 1.5 million innocent Armenian civilians in the Ottoman Empire. The genocide is not just part of the history of the world. It is also part of the Danish history, for during the genocide two Danish women, Marie Jacobsen and Karen Jeppe, played a heroic role in helping the Armenians. The two women are examples of Danish heroes who deserve far, far more recognition than they get in Denmark today. No historians in their right mind doubt that the genocide took place. The massacres, forced deportations are well documented, but in Turkey it is forbidden to mention genocide. The Turkish Government is pursuing an active policy of denial, which has recently led to the imprisonment of the Turkish-Armen parliamentarian Garo Paylan because he mentioned last week the genocide of the Armenians and the attacks on the Jews, the Greeks, the Yazids and the Assyrians in the Turkish Parliament. That's why he's going to jail now. This underlines the importance and topical importance of this debate. Ten years ago, the Turkish-Armenian editor and human rights defender Hrant Dink was murdered after he had been subjected for a long time to threats of murder, which had been ignored by the authorities because he advocated recognition of the genocide. Instead of protecting him, he was prosecuted by the Turkish authorities who wanted him imprisoned. There is no doubt that this was a genocide and, as we know it with the Holocaust against the Jews, the genocide against the Jews, the genocide against the Jews is unfortunately denied, even when it comes to the Armenians. In Denmark we have a political decision to engage in the fight against the denial of the genocide of the Jews. An official Auschwitz Day has been introduced, which will be held on 27 January, that is to say on Friday next week. This day is politically determined. It is politically determined to have an Auschwitz Day, so there is a tradition of political recognition of genocide in Denmark. It is only a question of whether each party supports such recognition. That is what Enhedslisten is doing, it is the alternative, and that is why we have called for the debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119144143	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119144155	Thank you for that and thank you for the question and the opportunity to discuss a subject which is of great concern and which continues to affect a great many people deeply. In 2015, the world, including Denmark, marked the 100th anniversary of the start of the tragic events that took place from 1915 to 1923 in the eastern part of what is now Turkey, a tragedy in which a very large number of Armenians, perhaps up to 1.5 million, no one knows for sure, perished as a result of forced deportations, massacres and other atrocities. Therefore, in May 2015 there was also a question debate in this Chamber, where, on the basis of a slightly broader and perhaps a little more open issue than is the case today, the matter was discussed. Therefore, some will probably recognize some of what I and others will say today, because the truth is that nothing has really happened since then. What exactly happened in 1915 and in the years after, nobody knows with full certainty, and it remains a historic task to map and interpret events. Few dispute the scale of tragic events, atrocities and enormous sufferings. The government will certainly not dispute or conceal a tragedy which, in any case, had such incredible proportions and consequences that a dispute over the size of the figures may seem pointless. But the government is not and has no desire to be an authority on historical issues. Nor will the government recommend that the Folketing undertake such a task. We can all have our personal, academic or professional perception of how to refer to events, but changing Danish governments have not wanted to officially describe the event as a genocide, and that is also the line of this government. There are two reasons for this: firstly, history should not be politicised. It should be left to history research to map what exactly happened and how best to interpret events. We don't have, and we don't need, a state-approved explanation of the course of history. In some other countries, apart from Armenia and Turkey itself, a different approach has been adopted in this matter. A small minority of European parliaments and even fewer governments have decided that events should be described as genocide. It just doesn't make it a good idea for us to do the same from the Danish side. Secondly, under the 1948 UN Convention on genocide, the term genocide has a specific legal content. This means, inter alia, that a decision as to whether certain events could be described as genocide within the meaning of the Convention must be based on an analysis which would typically be up to the courts. And the government is not such a legal body. The events of 1915 and the years that followed were a tragedy for the then Armenian population and still occupy many Armenians deeply. Events are also a sensitive issue. It is my understanding that Turkey would like to see a broader focus on the violent upheavals that took place during the first world war and the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, which also caused considerable suffering for large numbers of Ottoman Turks, without any comparison. The issue in Turkey is so sensitive and is seen as such an essential element of the foundation of modern Turkey that it is not allowed in Turkey to refer to the events of 1915 as genocide. Such restrictions on freedom of expression are, of course, not reasonable or appropriate in our opinion, including that of the government. During the year up to the 100th anniversary of 2015, a movement was seen in the official Turkish expressions towards greater self-awareness and understanding of Armenian suffering. This included, inter alia: recognition of the inhumane consequences of the deportations of the Armenians, mention of deportations as a crime against humanity and participation in a memorial service in the Armenian patriarchate in Istanbul. We can only welcome such steps towards reconciliation. The Armenians in Turkey are one of the few officially recognised national minorities. My understanding is that Turkey officially recognises only non-Muslim minorities, that is. in practice Jews, Armenians and Greeks, as national minorities. These minorities have treaty rights. Other minorities and religions do not enjoy the same specific legal protection in Turkish law. It is part of the complex background that characterises, for example. the Kurdish question. The government takes the issue of the rights of national minorities and other minorities deeply seriously, including as far as Turkey is concerned, and is working for ongoing improvements in that area. Overall, I believe that what the authors call the Armenian genocide is a complex historical, political and legal issue which is not the responsibility of the Danish Government or, for that matter, of the Danish Parliament. It is primarily a matter for Armenia and Turkey to decide how their relations will develop over the next few years. For our part, we must show compassion and respect for both the victims then and their descendants, as well as for today's Armenians and other inhabitants of the region who are suffering from closed borders and enemy images. The way forward must and must be reconciliation, and that requires dialogue. That is why it is my hope and that of the government that Armenia and Turkey will find each other in the years to come in a meaningful, open and open dialogue which can result in a greater common understanding of both the past and the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119144817	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We shall begin the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119144839	The last time we had the debate on the recognition of the Armenian genocide in this Chamber, the message from the current Minister for Culture, Mrs Mette Bock, was that those parties which do not support recognition of the Armenian genocide lack courage. It was even cowardice that there was no majority. I think that the individual parties, members of parliament and rapporteurs should ask themselves whether anything has changed since the statements made by Mrs Mette Bock, the current Minister for Culture, came back in 2015. The reality is that genocide is widely recognised by all serious historians outside Turkey. The genocide of 1.5 million innocent Armenians is still denied by the Turkish Government and there is a ban on mentioning the genocide in Turkey. If you talk about genocide, you run the risk of being murdered as Hrant Dinck, the Turkish-Armen editor, or the prison, which the Turkish-Armen parliamentarian Garo Paylan is currently facing. The Turkish Government's denial of the genocide is not just a mockery of the victims and their descendants. This denial also leads to repression of the Armenian and Christian populations in Turkey. They are discriminated against. They are mocked, and they are hated. I would like to call on the parties of the Folketing, I would urge the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament parties to consider whether the Armenian Christians should once again be abandoned. I think it would surprise a great many Danes if that really were the position of the majority. The government's basis states that the government will work to protect Christian minorities in the Middle East. Today, the government and parliament have an obvious opportunity to support the Armenian minority in Turkey, to refrain from repression, to speak out against genocide, which is unfortunately highly topical in the Middle East, as we recently saw in the attack by the IS on the Yazids in Northern Iraq. People's killing is a highly topical issue in the Middle East, and unfortunately today too. For the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, our position is quite clear. We want recognition of the Armenian genocide. The historians in Denmark do not disagree at all. They fully acknowledge it. We lack the politicians to do so, just as Denmark, with the establishment of Auschwitz Day, has officially recognised the genocide of the Jews and actively combats the denial of the genocide of the Jews, the Holocaust. It was the then VK government that instituted this day. It was a clear political decision. We want the current government to make a similar political decision. But I understand from the Secretary of State that the government does not. Whether it is a lack of courage, if it is cowardice, I do not know, but I would say that I will go constructively to this debate. We will go constructively to the debate and we will propose that we concentrate on criticising the Turkish denial of genocide. This is a clear violation of freedom of expression, a clear violation of the freedom of research and, therefore, a blocking of the democratisation of Turkey. The Armenians and the democratic forces in Turkey need a helping hand. I would urge the Folketing to lend them a helping hand. That is why the Enhedslisten and the Alternative propose a compromise proposal. We propose a proposal for adoption which criticises the Turkish ban on the name of the genocide but fails to take a position on official Danish recognition. This will ensure that the Folketing supports freedom of expression and goes against the denial. I call on the rest of Parliament's parties to support this compromise proposal. I would urge the rapporteurs to consider whether it is not with this compromise proposal that we can today send out a fine signal to the rest of the world and to Denmark that we are going to stand up to the denial and gather together. On behalf of the Alternative and Enhedslisten, I will make the following proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament confirms its adoption V 54 of 19 May 2015 concerning the massacres and forced deportations that took place on the territory of the Ottoman Empire during the period 1915-1923. The Folketing considers that the best path to reconciliation will be an open dialogue on history and its consequences on the basis of free and uncensored history research, including the release of all official documents from the period. Parliament deplores the fact that Turkish legislation prohibits citizens and media from using the term "people's racism" on events and considers that this constitutes an unreasonable restriction on both the freedom of research and freedom of expression. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20170119145441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119145459	In the shadow of World War I and the downfall of the great Ottoman Empire, among Turkish nationalists distrust of the Armenians grew out with all the accusations and intimidations we have seen so many other times in history when a minority is put to hatred. For the nationalists, the Ottoman Empire could only exist if the Turkish sense of nationalism and community were united and, as a result, the Armenians in particular were seen as internal enemies which had to be removed. In 1915 and onwards, appalling well-documented attacks were carried out against the Armenians. It is forced deportations, massacres, rapes and all the other atrocities that can be imagined. The only thing really discussed today is how many people died. I guess you're sure it's somewhere between 300,000 and a million and a half. It must be said that it is on the high end rather than on the low. In one way or another, the discussion about the figure is also so pointless, for in any case it is true, very many men, women and children who have been subjected to infinite and unimaginable human degradation. Is that a genocide? In 1948 the United Nations adopted a convention on genocide. This gives genocide a certain legal definition. In the Convention, genocide is defined as a series of defined acts committed for the purpose of destroying, in whole or in part, a national, ethnological, racial or religious group as such. In addition to the fact that you have to find out what actually happened, it becomes crucial to find out in some way what kind of intention the perpetrators had. There is no doubt that during the period we are talking about there was considerable Turkish nationalism in which strong Turkish ideologists fought for a large and strong Turkey without non-Turkish minorities. But is that enough to say that there is a intention? A group of experts on the UN Convention on genocide has previously referred to it as genocide, and when you read various sources, you see that there seems to be a broad consensus that it was genocide. Should the Danish Parliament then state that this was a genocide? Various arguments are put forward for opposing different arguments. The arguments for this are typical in other countries. The European Parliament does, as the Pope has done. And with the indescribable suffering that has taken place, should we not take that step and stand on the side of the good? The arguments against are: does it contribute to reconciliation between Turkey and Armenia? Although the way to do so seems to be far, it is true, as the Foreign Minister said at the outset, that after all there are steps that have been taken down that path. I would like to say that, for me and the Social Democrats, it is not really crucial what label you put on, but to recognise what happened, learn from it and stimulate reconciliation. If we do not think that the Folketing should use the concept of genocide, it is because we believe that the parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events should be maintained. In fact, I believe that far, far along the way, we agree on what is going to happen and so on. There are two proposals for adoption. One has support from the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left, and the other has support from the Alternative, Enhedslisten and the SF. The difference between the two is really just the last line and a half. We agree on the whole of the previous proposal for adoption to which it refers. We agree on the whole content, apart from the last one and a half lines of today's proposal for adoption. Now what happens is that instead of getting a united Parliament, which, with the strength it gives, sends a strong signal of reconciliation, of free history writing, of respect for all national, ethnic and religious minorities, we end up in a discussion at the level of: • You need to use the word that I use to • No, I don't want to. And it ends up as a split decision. I don't think that's good enough. I have to say that the parties who have had to come together in this matter, namely those who have been the main negotiators on the one hand, the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, have not grown up. It is also in a matter where what we would like to say is: let us now bring about reconciliation. So it has not succeeded here. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I stand with a proposal for adoption which reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament confirms its adoption no. V 54 of 19 May 2015 concerning the tragic and bloody events taking place in eastern Anatolia during the period 1915-1923. The Folketing considers that the best path to reconciliation will be an open dialogue on history on the basis of a free and uncensored history research, including the release of all official documents from the period. Parliament deplores the fact that Turkish legislation prohibits citizens and media from using the term 'people's raids' on events, and considers that this constitutes an unreasonable restriction on both the freedom of research and freedom of expression, without prejudice to the use of this term. The Folketing thus maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events. • 26).
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150116	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group) and European Democrats, on the situation in South Africa. Nick Hækkerup has just read out, has it in common with the proposal that I read out just now that both proposals criticise the Turkish ban on the name of genocide. I think it is positive that we have all the parties in the Folketing gathered around this criticism. But, frankly, I do not understand the last of the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Nick Hækkerup just finished reading. If it is the case that one cannot deal politically with a genocide in Denmark, is it wrong to have an official Auschwitz Day instituted by the then VK government? After all, it was an active political decision to combat the denial of the genocide against the Jews. Was that wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150212	Yeah, well, here we end up in that problem when sir... Nikolaj Villumsen says he can't understand that I can read it to you, but I can't understand it for you. It's like something that belongs in your court. What I said, and what is the position of the Social Democrats and our position, is that we must maintain the parliamentary tradition that exists so that we do not pass judgments on historical events. We are not going to do that here in Parliament. It's not like you can't have an Auschwitz day. The two things have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150250	It has exactly the same thing to do with each other that it is a political decision in which one has been politically related to the desire to counter a denial. That's why I'm just gonna call on you. Nick Hækkerup, call on the parties behind the proposal for adoption, as Mr. Nick Hækkerup has argued to consider whether it is really wise to claim that there is a tradition for politicians to stay out of it when, frankly, I do not see that tradition at all, on the contrary, and to call for a meeting not just to decide whether it was genocide or not, but to criticise the Turkish ban on mentioning genocide. Frankly, we should be able to meet about this, and I would say that I think that on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we have gone enormously far in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150342	Yes, I would urge the Enhedslisten to find a compromise. But isn't this a Enhedslisten classic that when it comes down to it, you just want to sit with completely clean hands, just want your back free in any case, won't move a centimeter in the direction of getting something real policy done? Now we are going to send a muddy signal because of the Enhedslisten and because of the Alternative, instead of we could have sent a strong signal, and to the delight of whom? At least not to the benefit of the Armenians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150409	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150413	I agree with the vexation that we cannot meet in the Folketing. I think it is a pity that the rapporteur, not least with the last reprimand here, is shooting the Enhedslisten in his shoes that he has not stretched. I got into the process a little late. It is my colleague, Rasmus Nordqvist, who has taken care of the negotiations otherwise, but at least I helped to move from a position in the Alternative and in the Enhedslisten, where we would like to go in and acknowledge the use of words that we then refrain from in this compromise. I would just like to say that we have at least gone a long way to get together, because in both parties we think it is essential that we stand as a united Parliament, because otherwise there are some who are exhibited, and no matter what we choose, it will have consequences for how we look at Denmark. Whether one side looks at us with distrust or the other side is disappointed, we must take care of ourselves. There is my question to the rapporteur just: can we not get into trouble just if people go after us and say that we do not take a political position in here on such events? Is it not our task, in fact, if there is otherwise a historical foundation and some good reasons for doing so, to go in and say that we are manifesting that this is how it has been, and we recognise this, so that the Armenians can also believe that they are being heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150528	After all, it takes two to make a compromise, and it is too late to make it; we all know that when we are in this Chamber today. It should have been made up for. As has been done in other contexts, we could have sent out a much, much stronger signal, so we could have been a unanimous Parliament, which had addressed some of the elements that lie both in the adoption proposal that is being adopted and also the adoption proposal, which is the proposal that Enhedslisten and Alternativet and SF, incidentally, which I forgot, excuse - Holger's range of determinative measures which I did not forget. We could have sent out a much stronger signal, and that is really what annoys me, so we're again having one of these discussions about who can be cleanest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150616	And Holger was sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150626	So it's not a debate that I want this word or you want this word. After all, the whole dispute is whether you, as people, feel recognised and heard by an outside world. In a conflict resolution one must give and take, just as we must, when we come together on a text here, and frankly I think it is very misinterpreted to say that it is just because one single word is held up, because it seems to us that it is now a good thing. No, I think that's actually this word that means a lot to a group of people, i.e. the Armenians, that it gets recognised that this is how it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150702	I think it does, but my point is that the texts that lie are so close to each other that it is too bad that we have not been able to find a compromise. That's kind of what's my main appeal. Then I'm sorry I said Holger, not Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen. I will make every effort never to happen again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150724	This is not the case here, because we have now finished the rapporteur's speech. And we move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119150739	Thank you. Of course, we had a discussion in our parliamentary group today when we had to go through the agenda, and I can announce that all 37 members of the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group are convinced in their soul and mind that it was a genocide that took place. I think it is essential to say so, also in relation to what follows. We are talking about events which, 100 years ago, killed perhaps one and a half million Armenians, where none of the Turkish commanders were held accountable. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen mentions Karen Jeppe as the great hero. She's the reason I've heard from childhood about this tragedy. She actually came to my grandparents' home in Randers, so that was something we were talking about, and the reason I was interested in this right from the start. We were very proud of that, and she certainly has a large place in the Armenians' heart.I have assured you that when I have been there, and also when I had conversations with Armenians in this country. So it is very good that she is mentioned. So I'm convinced in this case, and I am in relation to what I've read and what I've heard. So personally I have never been in doubt about it, and I have not been able to understand the Turks' refusal to open the archives that were there, and I have not understood that to this day. And that means that the two countries are not actually on the floor, they are right next to each other, and they do not actually have diplomatic relations. It seems quite surreal in 2017. Amateur historians who have dealt with this, including professional historians, largely agree with the assessment we have made, each of us in the DF's parliamentary group, i.e. that this was a genocide, and that is our decision. We read and hear about this, and we then decide independently what we trust. It is always the case with history reading that when you open a history book and read it, you make an assessment that may become more nuanced if you read another history book • things are moved by studying and reading. And there I think it is essential to say that what may be voted on in a parliament will not be more right or more wrong by the fact that a Parliament or a parliament decides anything at all. In other words, the truth of history is no longer true by voting 'yes', nor is it any more false by voting 'no'. It is the way it is, and that is why we leave it to historians. The fact that a parliament is to vote on it is absurd. I don't know what it's gonna end up with, 90 to 89 or something. I do not know where it ends, but the fact that a parliament should vote on what is the historical truth makes no sense in my optics. It's absurd. As I said, we are all present here with historical laymen. I do not think there is a single Member here in the Folketing who has a particular knowledge of the relationship between Armenia and Turkey, and if that is the case, then it is certainly not something that qualifies for deciding something for or against. And again, will the minority who then say 'no', if we now adopt it, be some who stood on one side, and will all those who voted 'yes' then be some who stood on the other side? Well, that's the absurd thing, too, as Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup mentioned, that is to say, the division in this situation should be brought in here just because other parliaments have done so. I do not know their background for doing so, but I do not think it is something that belongs in a Danish Parliament to give historical judgments, whatever it is. The Holocaust Day was mentioned, and it would be excellent to have, and I think there has been, by the way. And the days of the Armenian genocide, I think, should continue. But I have the feeling, and also the understanding, that it is really a court decision that means that something is being appointed to this word, which is so terrible in the Turks' optics, which we cannot understand. We ourselves here in the Folketing, individually, must decide what we think, but we must never begin to vote on what is historical truth and what is historically wrong, because then we are on a very ugly route, I think, which is very similar to centralism, and none of us like that, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151244	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151248	Thank you. As Mr. Søren Espersen is well aware that there is a very, very active campaign on the part of the Turkish Government which denies the genocide. It is both concrete in Turkey, where a Turkish-Armenian parliamentarian is now threatened with imprisonment because he mentioned the genocide in the Turkish Parliament. It also takes place outside Turkey, where there is an active pressure on governments and countries around, if they are forced to call it genocide. So there's a very active denial. That is also what we see with other genocides. We can see that with the genocide of the Jews. That's why you set up a holocaust day, an Auschwitz day, at home. Sir. Søren Espersen says that it is neither more false nor more true that you have a political decision in the Folketing. Does that mean that it does not matter that the then VK government instituted an official Auschwitz Day? Does it really matter, or does it actually matter for the fight against denial? Because then you have to take a political position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151359	I don't know how that Auschwitz Day came about, but I think that if I had been here in the Folketing at that time, I wouldn't have liked it. Well, I don't like that kind of thing at all, i.e. that you manifest something like that. But I don't know how it happened. I'd like to say to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that it is clear that there is a huge Turkish lobbying company. We have seen it very much in our midst. It just has nothing to do with the current Turkish Government. For all this, that is, the discussion that we have and that there has been between the Armenians and the Turks, is something that started a long time before Erdogan was born. So it is nothing about the fact that now it is such a special Turkish government. This has always been felt across the whole Turkish Parliament, whether it was right-wing or left-wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151442	Well, now I know as well as Mr. Thompson does. Søren Espersen, that he was in the Folketing back under the government of the VK, so frankly I must say that I do not think that argument really makes sense. If sir... Søren Espersen was so fervently opposed, he probably had said something at the time. On the contrary, at that time the Danish People's Party was active for a more active line from the Danish side in relation to recognition of the Armenian genocide. So I'd like to say to Mr. Søren Espersen, it's not gonna last. But if the Danish People's Party's parliamentary group fully agrees that this was a genocide, why not support the Enhedslisten's and Alternative's motion for a resolution, which does not decide whether there was a genocide, but simply does not say that it will certainly not be recognised as a genocide?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151527	I think that is what I have said in my rapporteur's speech. That is the absurdity of the fact that, with the votes of the judges, we decide something for and something against a historical discussion. That is surreal, and that is why we are not doing it. We all want to stand up for, and we probably also want to see all 37 members of the Danish Parliament meeting up for an Armenian memorial day, at any time, because we very much understand that it is a trauma to the Armenian people. But we will not vote on this, for or against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151604	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151606	I would just like briefly to acknowledge the rapporteur for his speech. Because I think in every way that we recognise, not necessarily the use of words, but at least the wounds it has created and the division that has been created. We can then disagree on what is the right thing to do, but I will say again, as I also said to Mr Beazley. Nick Hækkerup, that if we want reconciliation and if we want countries to talk again, of course we do not have the stones shown in relation to doing so, but what should be the first step? And in the eyes of the alternative, this is one of them, that is to say, one recognizes something that is so intransigent, and maybe pushes, that one party, which is the great one, can also recognise parts of it without losing credit, that they can leave the room in some way in a few years as winners without feeling that it is an defamation. That's where we stand a little bit. So I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151658	I thank you for the comments that have been made on my explanation of why we are acting as we are doing. I also think that each of us can recognise what we want. We are also individuals here who have the full right to stand up and say what we want. Fortunately, it is not a crime in this country to say that it is genocide, as it is in Turkey. If it helps in one way or another, if we did, I don't know. I do not think that the Turkish archives will suddenly be wide open because we are voting in favour of this today. I just don't think that's gonna happen. Of course, there's going to be a historical hemorrhage of this, because it can't go on, but I just don't think that something like this is really gonna make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151745	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151748	Thank you. It's possible that this isn't much of a part of it, but then we'll have to ask what we're gonna do. 'Cause I'm not assuming that mr. Søren Espersen, for example. will deny the German Parliament the right to adopt an opinion on the Armenian genocide, and there we have seen reprisals on the part of Turkey. And we are currently seeing how a Turkish-Armenian parliamentarian is threatened with prison sentences because he has said something about the genocide. Therefore, I would like to hear from Mr. Søren Espersen, also as President of the Foreign Policy Group, if he has any suggestions on how we can express our clear solidarity with the people affected by Turkish repression or harassment, because they are talking about what is a fact: the genocide of the Armenians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151848	I think we can do that in many ways. We do have that myself, and many of my colleagues in the Foreign Policy Group have also mentioned this often, of course, meetings with ambassadors, including from Turkey, etc., and we have the opportunity to express what we want there. The government can do so with the opportunities it has when it meets Turkish representatives, and that should be done all the time. I'm just sorry that it gets into a contemporary context and that it's gonna be something like that that now we have to protest and that it's Erdogan who made this. Anything else, he is not my cup of tea, but this is something that lies in Turkish history and in Turkish tradition, that is, that this is just not what you want. But at some point the pressure can be so great with all the parliaments that have adopted it here that we are now saying no to today. They didn't move anything special. So that's not the way to do it. There are other methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119151944	Yeah, but maybe that's where I think it is, for example. In relation to the honourable Member who is now threatened by prison in Turkey, a little is that Mr. Søren Espersen what do I know once every six months or once a year will talk to the Turkish ambassador. It is not something that the descendants of the victims of the genocide hear about. So I would like to hear: Søren Espersen not some more offensive steps? It could, for example. be a proposal that we should condemn the attack on the Turkish-Armen parliamentarian, or it could be an invitation to the government to take it up in some direct and open discussion with the Turkish Government. It is not because it is the Erdogan government, but because it is now that repression takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152033	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152034	In fact, we had a motion for a resolution this morning by my colleague Kenneth Kristensen Berth, which is about postponing and postponing accession negotiations with Turkey to the European Union. It was not adopted and I think we were quite alone with it. No, I'm sorry, of course we didn't. I can see that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen shakes his head I couldn't hear it, but I could see it. There I would like to say about the way it is done, that among other things. What is happening in the Turkish way in relation to the Armenian genocide is, of course, helping to postpone their ability to enter the good society at all. And that's where we're gonna work, and that's where we're gonna start.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152113	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152118	Thank you. There is no doubt that there is agreement among historians that there was a genocide in the Armenians 100 years ago. It is extremely well documented, and indeed it was also at the time. The two Danish nurses, Maria Jacobsen and Karen Jeppe, documented the atrocities in their diaries, and we, who have had the opportunity to visit the Genocide Museum in Jerevan, have been able to see for ourselves how the two Danish women today are known by all Armenians and are considered heroes. They made a huge effort to save as many people as possible. At the same time, the Berlingske Tidende at that time brought detailed reports from Armenia with a few days late. They are today important sources of research into the Armenian genocide. So the contemporary knew what was going on, and therefore no researcher with intellectual integrity can deny that it was a genocide. The expulsion and killing of up to 1.5 million Armenians more than 100 years ago is still an inflamed question. A hundred years later, the issue of genocide continues to be the focal point and one of the causes of the bad relationship between Turkey and Armenia. For example, the country border between the two countries remains closed. It is essential that the two countries agree on their common history and that the crimes of the past are recognised by the parties involved. Unfortunately, the situation is still deadlocked and the line between Ankara and Jerevan has unfortunately become cold after a few years of improvement in the relationship. We can only call for researchers to be given the opportunity to study the past freely and, above all, to speak freely about their conclusions. Free research based on professionalism and not political attitudes is one of the cornerstones of modern democracy. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Turkey, where mentioning genocide itself can be extremely problematic. It is, of course, totally unacceptable that this should be the case, particularly because Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and therefore has a duty to guarantee freedom of expression in this respect. The latest example of any talk of genocide being suppressed is the case of the Turkish MEP Garo Paylan, who has been excluded from this House for some time because he referred to the Armenian genocide as a genocide. Unfortunately, this is another example of the fact that Erdogan's regime is rapidly removing the last remnants of democracy and freedoms. It is the clear position of the Left that historical issues must be decided by historians. It is not a political task to interfere in how history should be written. We, as parties and individuals, can therefore have our position on the issue, and here the position of the Left has been clear for many years: it was a genocide. On the other hand, historical issues are not something we should deal with as a parliament. In other countries and in the European Parliament there is another tradition. Here, historical issues will be the subject of debate and resolution adoption. We do not have that tradition in Denmark, and we do not think that we should change that. On the other hand, it is a political task to ensure that the framework for the writing of history is in place. There is a lot to work on here, as I said earlier, when it comes to Turkey. After all, the Turkish state has politicised history by preventing historians from getting to the bottom of the crimes for which the Ottoman Empire was responsible, and at the same time preventing a proper debate on the subject in Turkey. If Turkey is to go through genuine democratic development, it requires that the past can be debated. Just think how Germany has been debating the Nazi past for many years and, above all, trying to reconcile the crimes of the past with respect for its victims. Turkey has neglected this and it also explains why Turkey finds it so difficult to become a fully democratic state with respect for ordinary freedoms. The Left would therefore like to help put pressure on the Turkish authorities to ensure free history writing, which is basically a question of freedom of expression. And, as you know, it is difficult in these times in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152623	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152625	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur makes it so clear that it was a genocide. It can be said that it was also the situation back in the time of the VK government when it was politically chosen to set up an Auschwitz Day to combat the denial of the genocide against the Jews. I must also say that, for this reason, I do not quite understand this argument either, because there is no tradition of political decision-making on genocide in Denmark. People's killing is not just any historical event, it is genocide and therefore extremely terrible. So what I just want to hear, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, on the other hand, is: why can we not meet today to make a proposal for adoption, which makes what is urgently important, namely to condemn the Turkish ban on talking about genocide? Why is the government insisting on a proposal for adoption which we know cannot create a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152735	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for being happy that we are clear in the spit. We were in 2015 when the last discussion was held. There was exactly the same message that came from the then rapporteur for foreign policy in the Left, Mr. Søren Pind, who also said what Left's position was and is. We have also said this in the past when these debates have been there, because we have had them several times. Now I've heard about Auschwitz Day sometimes from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, but Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is wrong, and it just takes a simple google search to make that clear. Auschwitz Day isn't just about the holocaust. Auschwitz Day is about the holocaust and other genocide. I repeat: Auschwitz Day was instituted to commemorate and celebrate the Holocaust and other genocides. If you google a little more, you will google that there is something called genocide.dk, which among other things. DIIS and the Ministry of Education are behind it and where you can go in and read about various genocides. There are several articles on the Armenian genocide and why there is a debate on whether it is genocide or not. So I think we have plenty of information in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152850	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152851	Thank you. I know the day of genocide very well. I myself have been involved in arranging it and making presentations... that was the genocide in Kampuchea. It is true that there is also genocide other than that of the Jews that is being marked on that day, and that is very important. However, this actually underlines the absurdity, because we have already had a politically established day, as the then VK government decided, and even decided to extend the focus to include others. the Armenian genocide. Why, then, is it that today we cannot just agree to say, at least not actively, that we will not take a position on the recognition of genocide, but simply focus on a criticism of the ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152937	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119152938	Well, I actually thought I said that in my speech. Well, I'm not a historian, I'm a politician. That is why I think it is historians who should clearly have this role to be able to go in and assess whether or not something is genocide. I think they have done the same, but I leave them responsible for that, and then, as a politician, I will be responsible for political decisions. And I don't think the story is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153002	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153005	Thank you. I think there were many good points in the rapporteur's speech, and I agreed with much of it, but there was one thing I would like to draw attention to. It is when the rapporteur says that there is no tradition of politicians taking a political stance on historical events. Well, that's not exactly true. We had a prime minister named Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and he actually took a very significant political position on cooperation policy during World War II with the sole aim of justifying his own Iraq war. This is a good example of how wrong things can be when politicians start to play historians, and in this way it confirms what was said by the rapporteur on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153055	At that time, I was only the mayor of Randers Municipality, but as I remember the debate, because we had it where I was, it was the Prime Minister who came out with his assessment in a speech. As far as I can remember, and I am happy to acknowledge that my memory may be wrong, a concrete government decision or a parliamentary decision was never taken on what was thought about cooperation policy, and that is fine in line with what I said in my speech. It is, of course, that parties, individuals and so on. It may well have an attitude towards something that has happened in history. I just don't think the parliament or the government should have it. It must be up to historians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153134	I have to say that Anders Fogh Rasmussen then seemed to have more authority than so many others here in the Danish Parliament had at that time, and it came to play a very, very important role in the debate at the time when he went in and made an assessment of the cooperation policy • an assessment which was very controversial and where he said it was something completely new. After all, he made very, very, very negative remarks about some who had some other views on it. It was used in the political context at the time. He used the story for a political purpose, and that is what can become a problem and which was a problem about Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153217	In relation to cooperation policy, which is a little off the agenda, I would say that I actually agreed with the Prime Minister's assessment then, and I am still a person for that matter. Then historians can discuss whether one is right or not, and it's so nice to have such a thing as the past that one can have personal assessments and historians can have their assessments. It is the historians who are accountable for the way history is written in their books. I don't quite see the comparison, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. I'm sorry, I can't. I do not think that there were any political decisions at the time, and neither do we today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153256	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153257	Now the reason we have the question debate is precisely because we want to see whether we can do something that has a positive effect. We may disagree on that, but perhaps we are down to a my, because it really is not very much in the texts of these proposals for adoption that are different, but there are still some essential elements. Therefore, my question to the rapporteur will be whether he believes... or with faith we are out on such a ball street where it almost doesn't matter, so I would like to ask: is it the case that one can regain one another's trust by recognising faults and shortcomings or how things have happened? Now we heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there was quite a consensus on how things had really happened, but that there could be some problems in that it was the Folketing that had to go in and decide what was up and down on a foundation of history, and there may be something about that. But is it the rapporteur's view that by recognising history and recognising the positions of one party, it can be easier to come closer to reconciliation? This applies in general to conflict resolution and very specifically to this matter. That is why we have taken the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153404	Now, in my speech, I mentioned that I, among other things. had visited the Genocide Museum in Jerevan, and I have also had the pleasure of participating in a delegation from the Folketing some years ago, which visited Ankara, where we were given the opportunity to come in and visit, let us say the Turkish version of it. And I can reveal it was a little different from what the assessment was at the Genocide Museum in Jerevan; on the contrary, it was so with reverse signs with Christian spears and everything else that killed civilians in the Ottoman Empire, etc. So I'm not so naive to think that this is just gonna be solved with a little talk, a little negotiation, etc. I think there have been so deep ditches dug between the two countries' interpretations of this that, to put it bluntly, it does not matter, for example. the Danish Parliament should think about that matter; then there will still be disagreement between the two countries. I therefore believe that it must be the historians who must do their job as well as they can by trying to clarify why they are now standing by what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153511	Now I may be moving a little on rocking ground, but when Germany is one of the countries that, in my view, has helped to take the lead in recognising that there has been genocide, then there is something historic in Germany that makes it particularly interesting. It may be that this is why a decision has been taken which might otherwise not have been taken, and it may be that the rapporteur sees in it an argument that this is something to be avoided, but Germany has a history that makes one feel that one should go in to do so. I'm just thinking that with Germany's history in mind and some of the reports that have come from Germany in recent years, we can see that there may be some who are approaching reconciliation with a story and with Germany, which otherwise would never have reached a reconciliation, even if they were just words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153553	I can easily understand the point. As I understand Germany's action in this matter, it is the German Parliament which has adopted a resolution which does not necessarily bind the German Government. And again, there can be different traditions. In other words, we also know that the European Parliament adopts many resolutions on various matters, and so there is just no tradition of this in the Danish Parliament. And I don't think that should be a tradition, because frankly, I don't think that's our role. But that can be looked at differently, and I recognise that other countries see it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119153638	I am in the same situation as several of the previous rapporteurs. I have no doubt that it is justified to refer to the cruel and monstrous acts of which the Armenians were victims between 1915 and 1923 in the eastern part of the present Turkey as genocide. We have had a situation at our group meeting, similar to that of the Danish People's Party. We are also in the old group room of the Danish People's Party. Our parliamentary group shares my opinion. After all, that puts all of us, in other words everyone who has spoken in this way, in a better situation than parliamentarians and researchers and ordinary citizens in Turkey. If they allow themselves to characterise the events as I have just done, they will be hit hard by Turkish legislation. In fact, as many have already said, it forbids reference to events as genocide. It is not in any way a reasonable position to place Turkish politicians and researchers and citizens in, and I am therefore very pleased that there is broad support for a proposal for adoption which states that this is an unreasonable restriction on both the freedom of research and freedom of expression, which the Turkish Government should remove. Then I would like to address the issue of official recognition. It is seldom made absolutely clear what the concept of official recognition really means in such detail, but there is, of course, a core of importance which I think we can all agree on: that the Danish State or the Danish Parliament takes an official position on how to interpret and describe the events we have heard about that took place in recent years by the Ottoman Empire. I should like to make a few fundamental points here. Generally speaking, the Danish state does not have an official view either of the history of Denmark or of world history. This applies both in cases of uncontroversial events and in cases of controversial events. This is a principle which I fully support. It is the scientific community of historians who should take a position on what we can say is certain historical knowledge, what is controversial historical knowledge and what must be said to be erroneous perceptions. But the characteristic thing for the scientific community is that it uses quite different methods and theories and procedures than we, as a parliament, use. And the methods and theories and procedures used by the scientific community are much better than the methods we use as politicians to guarantee the best possible knowledge of the past. One of the things that is not done in the scientific community is what has been proposed by some, namely to elevate certain descriptions and interpretations of history to official truth. You stick to sound principles, which are that you can discuss everything and that in principle all knowledge can be falsified. These are sound scientific principles which I do not think the Danish state should challenge by establishing an official state truth about the historical past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, of course, that came at the last minute. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154051	Thank you. When we last had the discussion, the current Minister for Culture said that it had to be a lack of courage, that it had to be a cowardice that caused the parties in the Folketing who chose not to back anything up, not to do so. Maybe that's what hit the Liberal Alliance in this case. I don't know. But if that is not the case, why is it that we cannot meet on the compromise proposal that we have put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative? The Turkish ban on the mention of genocide is precisely opposed to that. There is no question of a genocide, but once again, contrary to the government's proposal, without actively saying that it was genocide. I think it should be a compromise which was obvious in order to bring the whole parliament together. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154200	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154201	My predecessor, as rapporteur for foreign policy, is considerably smaller than I am by stature, but is probably something bigger in the battle. So I guess I wouldn't have spoken the same way. After all, the question debate itself cannot escape the question of the concept of official recognition, so one has not solved one's task unless one has dealt with the concept of official recognition, and what is being proposed by the Enhedslisten is, in fact, skating around the issue. So I actually find that a little illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154249	The position of the Enhedslisten is clear. It's always been. We believe that Denmark should officially recognise the genocide, just as it has politically chosen to set up an Auschwitz Day and thus actively combat the denial of the Holocaust, where, by the way, there are other genocides being dealt with on this day, among others. the Armenian genocide. But frankly, I must say that this is not an argument put forward by the rapporteur. In other words, the Enhedslisten, together with the alternative, has gone a long way to accommodate the government, and the question to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is: why not be accommodating about something that we should be able to agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154330	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154333	In other words, as I understand what is being said, and it is not to be snitchy or anything like that, one can say that a task has been put forward in the question debate, which is to take a position on the issue of official recognition, and I do not really think that this question is solved by talking about it. I would therefore rather make the comments that I am not alone in saying about the problem of having a politicisation of history.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154403	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154407	My challenge is to understand the rapporteur's shift, no, it is not the rapporteur's, but the immediate shift of each Liberal Alliance, in terms of whether or not to go in and actually recognise that it was genocide. There are, of course, conjecture on my part, but I think it is actually right and proper if you find out as a party that comes into government that there is a different situation now and that you therefore have to act differently. I find that by no means a shame. Someone has written about that, and I think it was Radicals who said: we want to be wiser. And here it is not necessarily because you have become wiser. You may have been smart all the time, there have just been some other conditions that must be taken into account because you have become part of the government. And I will have all the honour and respect for that, if that is why, because there is not a majority in this House for what we really want. So my question is really just: is it because the situation has changed and you have come into government? And immediately said: I have full respect for that if it is. It is not necessarily a change of attitude; it is just easier to understand for the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154510	I am certainly in favour of becoming wiser, that is also why I have changed the party, so we cannot in any way disagree on that. To put it bluntly, we have changed the rapporteur on foreign policy, so I really have the view that has been expressed, and I have had it all the time, namely that it is not a good idea to have politicised history. And it doesn't matter whether it's supposed to be one way or the other. In other words, one side of the conflict will prohibit the description of things in a way that the other side demands that things be described in a certain way. And neither forbid nor demand, in my view, are sensible principles, these are Illiberal principles, and I would rather that historic society should take these decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154614	I don't have a lot of comments to make. It may be that we are all getting smarter on that front. Perhaps it is precisely an opinion on whether we want to go in and make political decisions on the basis of history, whether we want to go in and make an official statement, and then we can disagree on that. But once again I can understand that it is a change of rapporteur that can change the party's position, perhaps rather sharply set up, but I still think it is a little, yes, there I will believe more likely that it was because one had come into government, which I have full respect for. It would just be easier to understand, as I said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154651	I think that was more a comment than anything that I necessarily need to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119154714	Thank you. We have already gone a long way, and I am standing here on behalf of my colleague, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, who has been involved in the whole process and is also a contributor to the request and the initiator. I think this has been a very good debate. It seems that we cannot really reach agreement and, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur and I discussed only yesterday, the question is how far we should go. Do we have to go all the way to stand together, or what? We have to recognise that it was actually a good idea to go out and take a political position. We thought there was every reason to show the Armenians that this must be acknowledged. This is not because, as politicians, we are all-knowing or have seen the light, or because I have a great historical background to say it, but because those who have a great historical background say it and have said it for many, many years, and because it is perhaps an essential element in the conflict between Armenia and Turkey. Now there are probably some who think that it is a little violent to believe that we can have that influence on the Danish side. But I have quite a lot of faith in both our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our diplomatic opportunities and our Foreign Minister. What if we insisted that Denmark never decide anything foreign policy? But we can go in and put some directions and insist on thinking what we are doing and dare to say it. And it can be both lame and stupid to say what you mean if you have no control over the consequences, but I trust that we in Denmark can say things in a way, on a foundation and with respect in the world, so that we can continue to be in dialogue. Earlier this day, I was advised by one of the experienced people in here from another party who said that when I was in such a speech here, I could actually say that we would like to continue a critical dialogue. This has been done in the past, and I think critical dialogue is very good, so we can still have a critical dialogue. In other words, there is still a dialogue with Turkey in every possible way. We can trade with Turkey and do everything possible with Turkey, as we are doing today. And then it's true that there's gonna be a bump on the road, and some would probably be very offended that we went out and reported this out. It may be easier for a country like Germany, which is a slightly larger player, than Denmark is trade policy. Of course, our interests in relation to Turkey are considerably greater than they are in relation to Armenia, which is not an equally large and important country. However, we are simply calling for the courage to say what you mean in the future, because we actually believe that across the Folketing it is an extremely good attitude that we have in the Danish Parliament and that it is something that many other countries could well learn from. So the reason we're so determined not to agree to this text of adoption is that we think we've gone a long way. We really think that we should go in and politically indicate that there is genocide. For that is what we believe, and that is what historians think, and we think that would be of great importance to the Armenians. And perhaps it could be something that actually made the Armenians think that if there were more who went in that direction, then at some point it would be so stated that it might at some point also be less defamatory for Turkey to acknowledge the premise that it is true that it was genocide, that there was another party as well. The Armenians were not without blame then, but there was just a very different relationship of strength, and therefore it developed in this direction, and after some years the worst thing happened: a genocide. We have no idea if this is going to happen. But what else are we gonna do? I mean, I find it difficult to see Denmark's role in foreign policy and defence policy if it is not to set directions and say what we mean and take the role of diplomats. We have said before that we must be the best country for the world, a humanist great power. Well, how do you do that? Shall we go out and preach one thing and the other in the world? No, to be a humanist great power would, in my view, be to recognise that this was a genocide. And then you would have to stand with your chest out and take the things that are coming and do an enormous amount of diplomatic work with Turkey to make them understand that this does not change our mood with Turkey. We would still like to let them join the European Union and what else might be major political. Right now, we just have a situation where we have to recognise this and we have to say that we have to freeze their negotiations to join the European Union because they are acting in a way that is not in order. It is in the present, and what we recognise here, is that in the past they acted in a way that was by no means in order. But it does not need to give any further shame in the future. We very much believe that in the alternative, and that is why we stand firm in maintaining a little bit of condemnation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155218	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155222	Thank you for those comments, too, for the comments on the impact of what we can do, even though we are a small country. In the opinion of the rapporteur, will the impact of what we adopt in the Folketing be greatest if it is a unanimous Parliament that adopts it or if it is a majority of the Folketing that adopts it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155253	It is so much greater if it is a united Parliament. I was just about to say something else because, among other things, The Foreign Minister and other ministers are in a situation of crisis investigation where consensus and majority voting are a major debate. Not only that, but in general, I believe that a united Parliament is much stronger. That is also why I was quite frank yesterday in saying: then we will have to go simply to get the unanimity that we think is best, because it will create controversy in relation to either the Turks or the Armenians, regardless of whether one or the other is decided. So I fully agree that it would be better to have a united Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155336	That is exactly how I have come to know the rapporteur, who is reflected and not locked in a position that has been taken. Because you've taken a stand, you don't have to camp on top of it. Here we could then agree to say that it is important to respect the rights of minorities, that we call for reconciliation, that we want things to be examined, that there should be free history, etc. It is not, in fact, a question, but just a call to the rapporteur, rather than having to vote next week, to consider whether the value of taking that step and saying that we have to stand together on this is greater than the victory sweetness that will be being voted down and yet have avoided the one-and-a-half line that we have written.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155436	I would hurry to say that there is certainly no victory sweetness in standing alone or that we were told what we meant now so that everyone could hear it and we could gungle out there, but I understand the rapporteur's point very well. We will not change our position in relation to the proposals for adoption that lie ahead of us. We will make it clear to the Armenians and to the Turks that we recognise it as genocide. If there was anything to change that, it would probably be because in the alternative we made a decision that we would not make these political decisions about history, but there we are in a situation right now, where we believe it is actually part of our task. But that would be where we could move if we did not have that attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155512	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155513	Thanks for the post. I find it very difficult to understand that being a humanist superpower should mean that historic events should then be decided by a vote in a parliament. I find that hard to understand. History I think we agree that is a science, and science is evolving. There's no such thing as that now you're done with it. There is always a development going on and constantly new things. I do not think that is necessarily going to come into this situation, because I think that those archives and those things are well elucidated and that you have a sense of what is up and down. But we can take another case, theoretically, where it would then turn out that a new science shows something quite different. Should we then have a new parliamentary decision to reverse the decision we had taken before?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155612	Yeah, I'd say so. In other words, we can, to the best of our knowledge today, recognise the genocide and then find out something else. It's not something we just do like that over our necks and heads. Many people agree that this has probably been a genocide. It's been many years and a lot of people have been working on it. And we have to say that there is an empirical basis that is reasonable and that it is with good thought. So I'm comfortable saying yes to that. If in a few years' time we find out that this is not the case, then in every way I think we have to take a position on it and admit it blankly if, as the alternative and me, we have personally been wrong. We must then go out and acknowledge that, and that is my point. The loss of honour which some people seem to have in politics to become wiser, we must have done away with. That's a big deal to admit. If we do so too often, there can be consequences in large-scale politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155709	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155711	There is what I think it was not better to leave it in a parliamentary context and say: it is an historic event that has taken place and there have been many historians who have worked on it, and hopefully more will work on it, both from the Armenian and Turkish side. That is our hope: the Turks are starting to open those archives. After all, it is ridiculous in 2017 to have completely hermetically sealed archives about something that happened 100 years ago. But shouldn't we let the historians go in and do their job instead of getting ahead of it, even though we all do... I think we have confirmed each other for several times instinctively that this was a genocide and that the Armenian people feel like a great trauma?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155800	It is essential for me to say that it is not instinctive for me, but I do not think it was what the rapporteur meant either, that is to say it is instinctive, scientific and what else we can put on that we think it was a genocide. And yes, you can say that you have to let the historians do so, but that is where we in the Alternative believe that we can actually make a difference by going out and recognising what a people right now has as their own reality and experience that parts of the world will not recognise. I think that is what creates extremism or irrational action, that is, if you experience that the whole world does not understand you, even if you feel that it is almost a truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155839	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. René Gade from the Alternative. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119155853	There will probably be the citizens who are watching behind the screens at home, thinking how it can be that the Danish Parliament here 101 years after the events we are talking about here, will spend 2 hours dealing with what the right term is for what was going on at the time. Let me say that in my quiet mind I may well understand the thoughts of the citizens who may sit and think like that, given what is going on in the world today in Syria, in Ukraine and in all sorts of other places. It is not events that bear comparison in this way. It is always difficult to compare historical events over time, but the latter is something that we may be able to do more about here and now than we can do about the events that took place at the time. Many people have said today, and I would also like to say that in my personal optics there was genocide 101 years ago. The atrocities that took place were of a nature and related to a number of human lives that were eliminated and, in my view, with the use of a system, that it can hardly be described as other. However, I have the view expressed by several of my fellow Members today that it is not a political task to give names and sentences. Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, what I thought was a very good example, another time, when it was not Parliament, I must say, but rather the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who on his own behalf took the liberty of making a number of historical judgments about what took place during the period of occupation in Denmark. In fact, I personally found this rather inappropriate, especially because it was then tried to use it in a contemporary context to legitimise something that I do not think could be compared in any way. In fact, I do not think that it is Parliament's job to pass these final categorical judgments, even though I am not in any doubt on a personal level. I have not had the opportunity to carry out the poll in the radical group, which Mr. Søren Espersen has done in the Group of the Danish People's Party, but it would surprise me if most of the radicals would not have the same view. What is essential and which we can really do something about here and now, and what I think is perhaps the essential message to get out of here, is that if we are to be able to carry out historical research and if we are to be able to reach conclusions, then, of course, we must have access to the archives, that it is not forbidden to name genocide, if that is what we believe to be the proper term as a historian or any other. And I also regret the fact that we cannot send everyone together at once, because we agree on that. I hear no one disagree with it at all, and I think that would be a strong message from the Danish Parliament. Now the Alternative and Enhedslisten have made their own proposal and clearly expressed their own position, and that is fair. There is no doubt that we would have liked to have seen politically and parliamentaryly decide on what to call it here, but if there is no majority in favour of it, then perhaps we could at least agree to send this very clear signal to the Turkish Government, which we would be able to adopt by consensus the proposal for adoption that we have others tabled. Much more I really do not have to add to this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160244	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160250	Thank you. Well, frankly, I'm a little puzzled. That this is an indifferent debate, I wonder why Mr. Martin Lidegaard may think so. We are in a situation where there is an Armenian parliamentarian in Turkey who is in prison because last week he mentioned the genocide in the Turkish Parliament. It is therefore important to have an active Turkish denial which leads to repression and which will, of course, help to short-circuit the possibility of democratization. For it is clear that if you have such an active ban on utterances, you will also have a situation where it is impossible to have a real democratic debate. So, of course it's relevant. There is no uncertainty about the genocide. After all, the historians are in complete agreement at least outside Turkey. And we have seen that the political side of Denmark has decided to hold an Auschwitz Day focusing on the genocide of the Jews, but also other genocides. So the question is reversed to the dear Mr. Martin Lidegaard: Why can we not meet on the compromise tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which precisely criticises the denial, but with the difference that we do not renounce the possibility of calling genocide a genocide?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160412	I actually agree with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in that this is not so far between the two proposals for adoption that lie ahead of us. That is why I also regret the fact that no agreement can be reached. I didn't say it didn't matter. I just said that what is not an important discussion. That is also why I would like us to concentrate on it, rather than whether we, as politicians in here, as Members of Parliament, should issue that judgment or not. I fully agree with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in that it is then the debate that is interesting. My point was exactly that this is what we can do about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160451	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160455	It is no secret that there has been a long debate in this situation. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative have stretched very, very far. We want official Danish recognition, but we say: okay, we cannot agree on that; so let us meet where we can meet, namely a criticism of the denial in Turkey, of the ban on mentioning genocide. The problem is that the government has run further and further away from us in those negotiations. It would actually mean something if a party such as the Radicals were to have a former Foreign Minister such as Mr Tugendhat. Martin Lidegaard said: Come to your senses we should then be able to agree on the compromise presented by the Alternative and Enhedslisten. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard: Would it not be sensible for us to meet there? Would it not actually be strong for the Folketing to be able to stand together on the compromise which clearly brings together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160547	Now, unfortunately, I am in the past. I must be the first to regret that. That is why it is not me who, like me, leads the negotiations on this proposal for adoption or has done so. But it annoys me that I might as well say frankly because I think the important thing here would be to be able to get a clear signal from the Danish Parliament that we do not want to take a stand on this issue, but that we want to take a position on history research, namely that the history research that is going on must be free, open and proper, and that all archives must of course be available. I would not rule out that we could have arrived at that here with a slightly more gelnde negotiation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160626	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160629	When I take the floor, it is because reference is again made to Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the then Prime Minister's speech on 29 August 2003, which was of a completely different nature. It was not voted on in the Folketing. In other words, it was not the case that the Prime Minister invited the Danish Parliament to vote yes or no to whether the cooperation policy was a good thing or a bad thing. It doesn't work that way. We can, of course, individually like the Minister, if we want to do so, and we have not got so much into diplomacy that we are not all afraid to say anything more about genocide. And Anders Fogh Rasmussen did so on cooperation policy. And it, I think, created a crazy exciting debate, a necessary debate, which, after all, ran for several months. I'm glad we got this conversation started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160722	Well, sir has. Søren Espersen is absolutely right. I also think I said myself that it was not comparable because it was not the opinion of the Folketing or of some others, but that it was an expression of his personal views. My point was that I actually usually find it problematic when politicians try to take one historical context, one historical dilemma, one difficult situation and copy over to something 60-70 years later that is in a different context, and say: See, we could learn that from it. But that is my personal opinion, just as it was Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's personal attitude. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160755	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160759	Is it not true that precisely when it comes to historical assessments and analyses, whether in terms of cooperation policy or in relation to the Danish West Indies, and what happened there, Greenland, and what it may be historic, it is also the right and duty of every minister, including the Prime Minister, to say what he or she thinks? I do not think that comes under the responsibility of diplomacy. It will then do so in a situation here, but our own history and our own things are free to discuss, and we should do so, I think, even if you are a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160838	That is certainly not necessarily a problem. I fully agree with that. And by the way, we have freedom of speech, so you have to do what you want. I do not think we are going to get any further in that debate, although it is interesting. I myself felt that comparing what Denmark did during the occupation in the 1940s with Denmark's reasonably active and aggressive war in Iraq in the 00s was such a bit • if I may use an English expression • dad stretched, i.e. a little far out. But we can have different views on this, and a long debate at least came out of it, and it continues until today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160911	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. No, I'm sorry, there's one more questioner. It's sir. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119160920	I would like to know whether the rapporteur sees an opportunity to draw closer. One thing is that in the Alternative and Enhedslisten we are approaching the majority, but is there any possibility that we could approach the other way? Those with whom I have spoken point out that there could be something in the negotiation process that has been a pity and that we should have been able to get closer. I think that the Alternative and Enhedslisten have stretched as much as we can, although we would like to stretch further, but I find it difficult to see that one has stretched from the other side. It may be that you just shouldn't, because you really think it's the right thing not to do, and I have full respect for that. But if you could meet, is it worth spending time meeting again? I just haven't really seen the majority stretching.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161008	I'll leave that to the government to judge. We would like to see a meeting, but, as I said, I am not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs anymore, so I do not think I can do much about that. When I look at the two texts and I haven't, I must honestly admit, and it's probably my fault, been inside all the negotiation processes up to this. I don't see any insurmountable obstacles in thinking together. But whoever has to give, how much, etc., I will safely leave to the person responsible today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161040	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161044	I just want to strike down one thing that I think is different. We all recognise the enormous problem of freedom of expression and freedom of research. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, I can very much disagree with someone on something, but I can argue from here and then, I do not know when, that they should still have the opportunity to express themselves. It's one of the places where we think it's important that we go in and mark ourselves. That is more of a comment than it is a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161113	On this point, I think all the parties in here agree. If I understand the alternative and Enhedslisten right, it is the last sentence that causes the greatest problems. We can live with that, because we agree with it, but it is not strictly necessary for us either, because we can mean it, whether or not it says so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161137	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen. No, we'll try the next one in line, and that's sir. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161156	It is believed that up to a million and a half Armenians were killed. It was a completely catastrophic attack on a people. The events that took place from 1915 to the formation of the Turkish state in 1923 cannot be condemned hard enough, whether it was Ottomans or Turks who were behind it. Having said that, it is not for the Folketing to decide whether there is genocide and therefore today's question is a pseudo-question on a very important issue. It is a pseudo-question because we in the Folketing cannot decide whether it was genocide, ethnic cleansing, crimes against humanity or war crimes. This is not something we can define here. As we all know, genocide has legal and international significance, and it has been so since 1948. It would have to be assessed whether it was the intention of the guilty parties to wipe out the Armenian people in whole or in part. This kind of thing requires analysis and research, and it requires a different legal authority from the MFs or the government. I know that the German Prime Minister has called it genocide, and I also know that the German Parliament has called it genocide, but they have a completely different tradition in that direction. Nor should I conceal the fact that I also often use the concept of genocide, that is also what most people use and as most historians say it was, but here in the Folketing it is a pseudo-question, because we do not have a tradition of defining that kind of thing. In addition, we have neither the legal nor the historical competence to assess it. But today's adoption underlines that we want to improve Turkey's relations with its ethnic, religious and national minorities. That is what we need to work for, and that is what we need. Today, in its adoption, we stress that the path to reconciliation is through free and uncensored historical research. All official documents from the period must be released; clear speech is the way forward towards Turkey. The forms of censorship which the regime exercises in many places against the press, against the opposition, are not worthy of democracy. Turkey is not free individuals as they have been in the past; the minority in Turkey does not have the freedom to be minorities. Personally, I would like our criticism of the Erdogan regime and the undemocratic approach to the free press, free research to be completely free of diplomatic plunder. The prerequisite for the Turks themselves to come up with the definition of whether it was genocide, ethnic cleansing or anything else is that there is free research in Turkey, that the documents are released so that we can research freely. In fact, it is more important that the Turks themselves conclude that the definition was genocide than that we are doing it here today. So in other words, I would really like us to be much clearer in the face of the criticism of the Erdogan regime, harder and tougher, but we are still satisfied with the adoption, because it is a step in the right direction, in the direction that we do not have to treat Turkey with velvet gloves anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161601	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161608	I know it's Mr. Knox. Naser Khader and the Conservatives are very anxious to do something to protect the Christian minorities in the Middle East, and this is where a silver platter is given an opportunity to do so. It is not, of course, a question of a long historical discussion; it is a question of addressing the facts, of the fact that there was genocide, on which historians do not disagree. All historians in their entirety know that there was a genocide, but there is an active Turkish denial which leads to repression of, among others. the Armenians today in Turkey. The difference between the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Naser Khader and the government are putting forward, and the compromise proposed by the Alternative and the Enhedslisten is precisely that our compromise proposal is free of diplomatic plunder. After all, the government's proposals have exactly been sauced into diplomatic plunders, so that criticism is avoided by the Ankara Government. To be honest, the Conservatives could not put their foot down in the government on this matter and insist that there should not actually be the punks that Mr. Naser Khader wants to get rid of?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161726	If I had been allowed to write the proposal for adoption, I probably would not have been so diplomatic, but it is a proposal for adoption that must form a broader consensus. It is extremely important that we here in the Folketing agree on these issues, and the wider the better it is. Then you send a signal to the Turks that they are moving in the wrong direction. In relation to the first part of the question, I simply cannot see what difference it will make in relation to the persecuted minorities in the Middle East, to the Christian persecutions if we decided today that it was genocide. Will it save more Christians in Iran, Syria and elsewhere? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161822	Thank you. It is my clear conviction that when there is an active denial of genocide, whether it be the Holocaust or the Armenian genocide, it is important to oppose that denial. That is why we, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, would very, very much like us to officially recognise the genocide. However, the compromise we are presenting does not officially recognise the genocide. It does not take a position on the genocide. Nor does it say that there will be no opinion on the genocide, as the government's proposal does. It criticises the Turkish ban. The problem with the government's proposal is, of course, that the whole parliament has been actively excluded, that is to say, that it has actively abstained from joining the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and now you can hear that the Radicals actually wanted to agree on the text that our compromise has, and even Mr. Naser Khader of a government party would like to. Then it couldn't be an option that Mr. Is Khader going to vote until the 26th, together with the Radicals, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and other good forces here in the Folketing, the SF, which has also not been involved in the government's proposals, working to ensure that we broadly concentrated on what we can agree on in that criticism of the Turkish ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119161933	However, our proposal for adoption also includes criticism. What I am saying is that I would like us to be even clearer, but it includes an important criticism. We are actually going in and interfering in Turkey's internal affairs, and I think that is important. That is to say that they must give way to free research, free press, and what is important is that Turkish historians, researchers and lawyers are allowed to research freely so that they can come to the conclusion that there was genocide. No one here has stood and denied that this was a terrible attack on the Armenians from 1915 to 1923. The question is what to define it as, and whether it is our role to stand and define it here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162032	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162037	Now I was wrong so that I couldn't comment on Mr. Martin Lidegaard's remark before, but I just thought there was something right in that one might accept that there was something one failed to take along. And that's where we stand a little bit. I do not think that there is anything in the proposal for adoption put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which the majority in this House cannot vouch for. But that is the omission which I see as supporting the fact that the term genocide is not to be considered, which is the miserable one. And that is what I really want to ask, in other words, whether the rapporteur believes that it is important for the Armenians to follow suit here. Now I've switched in instead of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, but I have rarely experienced so much interest in something that I sat on at such short notice • many have approached me to indicate what really happened and what their opinion was. So my question is: does it matter to the Armenians in relation to their perception of the conflict and to their perception of how the outside world views them and their situation, whether we call it genocide or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162151	I do not think that, in this process of Enhedslisten and the Alternative, there has been such a willingness to have a single proposal for adoption. It seems to me that one was so uncompromising with regard to the text. I really would have liked to have done a little more by having one common proposal for adoption. Of course it means something to the Armenians that it is called genocide. And many of us also call it genocide every day. However, in relation to the fact that the Folketing is going to define it as genocide, I would say that it is not Parliament's job, it is the historians and lawyers. So it is not a denial of the fact that this was a genocide I say genocide, and that is what is referred to as, but there are precise definitions of when to call something genocide or ethnic cleansing. This was, in fact, the discussion that took place a few years ago between Congress and the United Nations in relation to what happened in Darfur. Was it genocide or ethnic cleansing? These are legal definitions which I do not think we should vote on politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162315	I would just like to stress briefly once again that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have gone a very long way. We wanted something quite different from what we have today. In fact, I do not know how it works here in the Folketing, i.e. whether we could go back and then choose the original proposal for adoption instead of when we now found out that there was no majority. But I have no intention of doing so, and I do not think the Enhedslisten intends to do so either. Well, we're gonna stand by here because we've been trying to do something together. But again, I just have to say that I do not see where we have been tried to meet. It may be that the rapporteur can help me see where it is that we have come to know, because I do not see it anywhere. The text has hardly been shook by the others, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162352	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I should like to say that the Rules of Procedure state that during the debate, that is to say. Before this meeting and during this meeting, you can negotiate a text. Once we say that the debate is over, there are two texts, and then you can do one thing, you can pull one and vote for the other all. The Rules of Procedure do not allow us to start making a third. So it is absolutely true what Mr. René Gade is doing it if he wants to make a negotiation, so this is where it's going. It's just that we stick to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, miracles can happen, but it hasn't happened yet in the Folketing. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162432	I can tell from the questioner that he's approaching us... you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162443	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more questions. And then we go to our Foreign Minister, who has the floor here at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162456	I would like to thank you for a very good debate, which has the paradox that we have a Parliament which really wants to be united in sending out a signal in this serious matter, the historic tragic event we are talking about, but one cannot really get the ends to come together in the end anyway. It weakens all parties. That's too bad. That is why, of course, I hope that in the Alternative and Enhedslisten, we will be able to get on to the right team in this situation. I would like to try to explain why it is not just a question of removing one and a half lines. If you take as a starting point what is being asked about what the question is called, then you will see that you will have to use the text, which is now a broad majority behind it, because what is being asked about it? First of all, what is the government's position on the denial of the Armenian genocide in 1915-1923? That will then be answered in the first long part of the text of the proposal for adoption, among other things. in that it is established: the Parliament regrets the fact that Turkish legislation prohibits citizens and the media from using the term "people's children" on the events, and considers that this constitutes an unreasonable restriction on both the freedom of research and freedom of expression, without prejudice to the use of that term. In response to the second half of the question, will the government, like the German federal government and the European Parliament, recognise the genocide? You have to answer that part, otherwise the exam is not passed, you might say. It then comes in the last part of the proposal for adoption, where it is said: "The Parliament thus maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events. So, if you compare what I said at the end of the last sentence, that is, without referring to the use of this term, with the fact that Parliament thus maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events, then there is the answer to the question. But that is not the case if we want to maintain the line which, among other things, is in place. The alternative has been set up, and that is why I hope that the alternative will arrive, and we can at least do so by dropping, as the President has said, the one proposal for adoption and voting in favour of what has been proposed by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. I hope that will be the consequence. I fully respect the interpretation of history by individual individuals, the interpretation of history by researchers, the interpretation by historians of what has happened, and then we have a government and a Parliament that declares and acknowledges that we do not issue historical judgments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162829	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162834	There are previous governments who have just decided to actively combat the denial of genocide by setting up an Auschwitz Day, which, of course, focuses on genocide against the Jews, but also on other genocides. So we have a rich tradition of political decision-making on genocide. Everything else is absolutely absurd, and I think that is clear after today's debate. Honestly, sir. Secretary of State, sir. Naser Khader said it clearly: why all these pussies? Why not just bring the Folketing together? Clearly, the Secretary of State can decide that. The Radicals have said that they will help to accept a compromise. Conservatives have said that they could easily live well with a compromise. The Liberal Alliance even used to go far beyond the compromise put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and to support the establishment of official recognition. So why not just bring the whole parliament together, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to do so by concentrating on the compromise proposal that we on the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have presented to the government in recent days, which is clear to the Danish Parliament and the public here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119162950	But the answer is simple: because it is not a compromise proposal. This is not a compromise proposal. It is not a proposal that answers the question. That is exactly what I have explained. The question must be answered, and this is what is being done with the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. There are two elements and both elements will be answered. What you want from the Alternative and the Enhedslisten is to answer only one element.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163022	Honestly, I think it's a little unworthy of a case as important as this one that the Secretary of State is hiding behind word clippings. What is the situation here is that you have an opportunity to bring the Folketing together. This can be done on a clear basis, which criticises the Turkish denial. That's exactly the problem in this case. This is not a discussion about historical facts. The historians are in complete agreement. With Mrs Mette Bock's words, there was just a lack of courage, and there was a problem of cowardice, and we could, of course, get rid of that if we dropped the plunder and then agreed on the compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163105	I do not know if there is such a tradition in the Enhedslisten that if they do not agree with the answers that they get and I am actually trying to answer very seriously then you are told that you are being irresponsible. It can't be like that. It is not a dialogue that leads anywhere. I think I'm answering seriously and properly. I respect the fact that Enhedslisten's rapporteur chooses to have a different view, chooses to want to have only one half of the questions that have been asked today, but that is then a disagreement we have. We have a professional disagreement. We are a place where we fight for and call for freedom of expression in Turkey; that one can address this issue; that one should be allowed to use the word; but we will not pass historical judgments in the Folketing, and the government will not pass historical judgments. Well, we're just arguing about that, but it doesn't have to have anything to do with being untrue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163200	Sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163203	Well, thank you for the debate. I fully agree that it has been good. First of all, if you have not passed the exam, if you do not answer the second part of the question, then I am full of renewed hope in sending ministerial questions and asking questions in general. Because I do not think that it is usually such a condition that the questions that are asked are answered. But I think it's excellent if it's something you're so keen on from now on. But joke aside, even though there was also a glimpse of something very real in it, could one imagine that we were making a proposal for adoption, where we, who have put up the question, are okay with it if we assume that the premise of the Minister of Foreign Affairs is correct and that only one question will be answered? In other words, if that is okay with us, then we are out of this squabble of words where I would like to go so far as to say that I think there are other interests at stake when we want to refrain from going out with such a strong message with Turkey, with a partner in NATO and elsewhere. Could you perhaps meet about being okay with answering only one of the questions if we have asked the query is okay with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163320	Well, maybe now it's gonna be more like a game. Because we have a text that we are dealing with; we have a question debate that we are dealing with. In any case, I do not believe that the Presidency will help us to edit the wording itself. Then somewhere we have to come to an agreement on this in the Chamber, that is, that we are now just answering something other than what is being asked about-like. So, there I think it might be a little easier if the alternative rapporteur would say: okay, let us get the answer to that question. What is the problem on the part of the Alternative, in that the Parliament notes that a parliamentary tradition is maintained in order not to pass judgments on historical events? Why is that a problem? We would then have a unanimous Parliament at least if we could also include the Enhedslisten in the idea and, indeed, the Alternative's rapporteur acknowledged that this would be a much stronger signal. Is it really so high a price that you don't want to pay the price of the Alternative? So basically just sober to see that this is not a tradition we have in the Folketing and that it is not something we want to break with? What is the problem with the alternative of doing so? Is it perhaps more the alternative that has a problem on the outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163435	The Minister looked at the President-in-Office of the Council, so before we continue, I would like to say that it is not for the President-in-Office to communicate compromises; it is only for the process to be carried out. And I mentioned before that it can run until I say at some point that the debate is closed. Then it will be concluded, and then there are two proposals for adoption, and I have the task of ensuring that they are put to the vote as soon as possible. That's my job, just so we know how the assignments are distributed. You will have to deal with the political situation and I will deal with the agenda and the formal nature of the Rules of Procedure. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163511	I would like to put two heavy points on the fact that I seem to owe it to the Armenians, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to say that we are by no means on the way to reconciliation in this debate. We, together with the Enhedslisten, have stretched as far as we could possibly. On the other hand, we are asking that we try now, as I have been told from the Chair, to negotiate, as we stand here. I am listening to the fact that we really want to answer our question, and then I come without having Enhedslisten's acceptance of it with the proposal to confine myself to getting answers to one question. I can say from the point of view of the alternative: yes, that would be okay with us. And that's why you could go along with this. The Foreign Minister sees it as his first task to answer both questions despite that. In other words, if we are all looking for the best possible effect on the conflict between Armenia and Turkey and recognise the Armenians, I think it would be better to deal with that rather than assessing whether we have now answered both questions in a question where it seems okay for those who have asked it not to get the answer that the Foreign Minister insists on giving.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163618	There is a very broad majority behind the proposal for adoption that lies now, and the only thing that the Alternative and Enhedslisten have to do with themselves now is whether you want a divided Parliament or a united Parliament. That is actually it, and it is on the shoulders of the Alternative, and it is on the shoulders of Enhedslisten. It is not on the shoulders of others that decision must be made by the two parties. I hope that they will choose to get us all in a situation where there is unanimity, where a clear signal is sent out that we want freedom of expression; that we want the right to use the word genocide. I think I'd dress this Parliament anymore, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163701	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163705	I appreciate what the Secretary of State has to say. I think it is an essential sentence that he makes. We must, of course, welcome the fact that we can deny and defend exactly what we want. Germany is sometimes referred to here. In Germany, denying the Holocaust is actually a criminal offence. This is a situation we could not even imagine here. I have had a hard time convincing my Israeli son-in-law that this is a good idea. They can't understand it, but I've been trying to explain it. That is the very essence of having a parliament which does not interfere with what people say. People can be held accountable for what they say in the courts, but otherwise they can deny or defend historical things. It's a luxury, and we have to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163754	Yeah, I totally agree. I think it would be a strong signal if the whole parliament could stand together on this text, which includes Parliament regretting that Turkish legislation forbids citizens and the media to use the term genocide. It would be fantastic if we could stand together and then at the same time establish that we have neither a tradition nor a tradition of passing historical judgments. These are the two elements we are talking about. I think these are two sensible elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163826	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119163843	I would like to make it clear that we hear it both in Denmark, behind television screens, in the media, in embassies, and in whom else there might be an interest in Turkey, in Armenia and throughout the world, that I recognise that in the proposal for adoption tabled by the majority there is criticism of the Turkish ban on mentioning genocide. It is a criticism which the government, which I myself, like the Enhedslisten, and which, I am quite convinced, clearly supports. We ourselves have also proposed this in our proposal for adoption. It's clear. I would like to make that clear. In this way, there is a clear criticism in both proposals for adoption. But then, frankly, it is starting to become nonsense, and I think it is tragic. We must not in any way subject ourselves to the same censorship as we criticise. Well, let's just drop the punks, like Mr. Knox. Naser Khader came with us. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that not a single concession has been granted in these negotiations. Frankly, it's pretty grotesque. This debate was originally created on the initiative of the Liberal Alliance, because the Liberal Alliance, like the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, wanted official recognition. Then we come to the debate and not a single concession is made. We even have the former Minister of Foreign Affairs standing as Minister of Foreign Affairs back in May 2015 who says he could live with our compromise. That means that we could have got this compromise through when the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslist and the Alternative called for this debate, but we cannot get the compromise through when it is the Liberal Alliance that has the position of Foreign Minister. If there's any crumbling toes around, I'd say it's for good reason. Frankly, I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the rapporteurs should ask themselves whether what they are doing is sensible. In other words, the situation is that we have the opportunity to withdraw the proposal put forward by the government, and I would recommend that we do so. It's nonsense when you say you don't relate to history. We're always dealing with history, aren't we? If you want to spend just a short time in Parliament, you will notice that, whether it is the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Defence Policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or whoever is discussing, historical references are constantly appearing. In this case, we are even talking about something as violent as genocide, and that is something that we are discussing politically in Denmark. Politically, the VK government has instituted an Auschwitz Day. A position has been taken which has been actively sought to combat the denial of genocide. I have to say that I think you should ask yourselves and your colleagues in your party groups if, frankly, you shouldn't drop these embarrassing punks and stand together, gather the Folketing widely about a criticism. I think there are a lot of Danes out there, for example from Mr. Søren Espersen's party, and wondering why all those embarrassing punks are going with them. Is it because there is a lack of courage in the Danish People's Party? Is it because there's a cowardice? Why submit to the Islamist President Erdogan, whom you know will be a little upset if the plunder is not included? To be honest, the SF has said what the Radicals have said, the Conservatives have said, namely that they would be able to live with the proposal for adoption made by the Alternative and Enhedslisten. So you have the opportunity to gather widely. We have the opportunity to join forces in the parties that have tabled the proposal for adoption, which is, after all, a majority in favour, and I think we should consider whether it would not be wise to bring the Folketing together in this matter. Not least, I would like to appeal once again to the Foreign Minister, who comes from a party which, until a short time ago, thought official recognition was appropriate. To insist on a statement that contradicts the policy of the Liberal Alliance until very recently is perhaps unwise. But the Secretary of State will have to decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164357	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164401	I do not know whether I have succeeded in making more placards than the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But if I am, I think it's pretty well done, because a lot has come from that side of the day. Why does Enhedslisten's rapporteur refer to Germany when using an example of this • a country where it is criminal to deny the holocaust? Is this the kind of situation that Enhedslisten thinks we should have in Denmark as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164428	I don't think I've come up with punks at all, but I'm a little puzzled by the strawman that Mr. Søren Espersen suddenly brings into space. Nobody has suggested that it should be forbidden to deny anything, on the contrary. What we have put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative is precisely a proposal that puts an end to the Turkish ban on mentioning genocide, in other words an active defence of freedom of expression. But I think, sir. Søren Espersen will need the next few days to discuss with his parliamentary group whether to use these diplomatic pussies in such a proposal for adoption, and to talk to the backland of the Danish People's Party members, voters and the constituency in Kalundborg about whether it is really the case that you have to put all your strength in, humiliate yourself and show a lack of courage and possibly even cowardice in order to meet the wishes of the Islamist Turkish President Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164527	Well, maybe I'll call my district president in Kalundborg. By the way, I do that a lot, and nothing happens about it. I would also like to do so in this case, and I will report the result to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur later. Yes, Germany is a good example, for it is an example of a parliament which gives historical judgments and therefore does not accept free research. Germany is an excellent example of what Turkey is doing, so I cannot understand why it should suddenly be called a strawman. This is a fantastic example of a situation that we do not want, because in our Parliament we do not give up historical judgments. We leave it to historical scientists to make their assessment, which may then in 20 years' time will be another, as in 40 years' time will be another. It is the very idea of science, and I cannot understand that Enhedslisten cannot see that connection. Are we going to have German conditions now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164624	Well, sir. Søren Espersen was in the Folketing when the VK government instituted an Auschwitz Day. We have had the debate before today; I have raised the issue many times. I know no one will abolish Auschwitz Day. Of course it may be, sir. Søren Espersen has regretted setting it up. I can't imagine. The situation is that what is happening now is that you end up in a situation where, for the sake of the Turkish President Erdogan, you do not stand firmly against criticism, but use a lot of plunder. I think, sir. Søren Espersen must call the president of the circle in Kalundborg, and I think that members of the Danish People's Party who are following this debate should consider with themselves whether it should really be the policy of the Danish People's Party on 26 January. And the voters of the Danish People's Party should consider the same thing, because I believe that many people disagree with Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164718	Sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164723	I would like to ask the rapporteur to mention three cases in which the Danish Parliament has established what is the historical truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164736	It's always polemic to say, "What are three things?" This is a good trick for any panel debate, but as has been pointed out here, there are plenty of examples in the debate that has taken place, that governments, politicians, have taken a political position on specific historical events, have dealt with the facts. We all do, all the time. There has been Anders Fogh Rasmussen's criticism of cooperation policy. I very much agree with that criticism. There has been the discussion in relation to, for example, the excuse that Denmark extradited Jews to Nazi Germany during World War II. It was Anders Fogh Rasmussen too. There has been the inauguration of Auschwitzdagen, which also happened under Anders Fogh Rasmussen's government. So there are plenty of examples that bourgeois politicians, parties, governments have taken a stand on historical matters have dealt with the facts, and I would like to emphasise that an active part of the denial of any genocide is to question whether it has happened. That is what Turkey is actively doing, but no one but Turkey is doing it. There is no doubt, other than Turkey, that these are facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164851	That is another question. Can the rapporteur confirm that Turkey's Armenia policy has been firmly established since the founding of the Republic in 1923 and its first President Kemal Atatürk?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119164907	That is absolutely correct. It has been totally stuck, and this has also been part of the programme. to keep Turkey away from a fully viable democracy, because it is clear that when we introduce a ban on mentioning something as relevant as the killing of 1.5 million people in the territory that is now Turkey, it makes it very difficult to have a reconciliation, to have democratic development, and that is why this issue is highly topical. That's why we, among other things. I am surprised that it is not the desire of the Liberal Alliance to bring together the Folketing on this criticism instead of insisting on some plunder which, frankly, in this closed room is a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165004	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165009	I'm a little puzzled, 'cause normally I do know Mr. Simpson. Nikolaj Villumsen as a person who can keep up and it was actually meant to praise. But in this debate Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen apparently did not follow at all, for he keeps bringing up this Auschwitz Day, again and again and again and again. It seems like Mr. Knox... Nikolaj Villumsen will not Now I have just gone to www.folkedrab.dk, which is the completely official website for this and there are massive articles about Armenia, where all the articles also say: genocide. So that means you've opened up that the historians who write these articles can put their knowledge forward. And as Mr. Henrik Dahl has made clear to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, there have not previously been political decisions here about one thing or another in relation to resolutions, but what has been done is to open up the knowledge of researchers, historians, and they can do so today at www.folkedrab.dk. So let's not stop with these very high-flying words that we should be weak with Erdogan and others, and then get to the facts, and the fact is that you can already read a lot at www.folkedrab.dk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165139	I know, as I also said earlier, very, very well www.folkedrab.dk. I would recommend that everyone go in and read, among other things. on the Armenian genocide and the denial of the Armenian genocide. I've been active myself in arranging one of these days. It was then about another genocide of the genocide committed by the Red Khmerians of the civilian population in Cambodia. But one can also go in and read exactly about the denial of the Armenian genocide that some of what is happening is that politicians in Western countries, for the sake of the Turkish Government, are not officially recognising it and questioning whether it has happened in the interests of their allies in Turkey. It is a problem in relation to the denial that is taking place, because it is an active weapon in the denial to try to force people to question what has unfortunately also happened on the part of some people here today ■ whether the legal definitions are proper and whether all historical facts are now in place. So you can go in and read about it and I think that will actually be useful to many of the rapporteurs on that particular website.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165255	I have, of course, also, which has repeatedly been made clear. On the front page of Armenia, it says directly: 100 years ago, Armenians were subjected to the genocide...• So, I don't know how exactly you want the researchers to have a free space in order to get out this information. They're already here. So that's it, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is trying to kick in an open door or to change the long tradition we have in the Danish Parliament, so suddenly we should start becoming amateur historians and then sit in this parliament and come out with one resolution after another about history. We've never done that before. So, frankly, I'd like to ask Mr. Simpson. Nikolaj Villumsen, what does Enhedslisten want? We have the free research, we have the opportunity to inform about the genocide. And that is really what Enhedslisten should want when it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165348	My clear wish is that on 26 January we will be able to agree on a hand-out to the Armenians and to the democratic forces in Turkey who are imprisoned and murdered in order to want an open debate on the Armenian genocide. I just think that we all know very well that it was a genocide. It is clear on that website, and there are no historians in their right mind who deny it. In fact, it just makes it even more absurd that we should put a lot of pussy into the proposals for adoption that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165424	Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165432	Thank you. What are some punks in the proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165441	................................................................................ without prejudice to the use of that term. The Folketing thus maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events. It's the plunder. Because, as I have said before, there are plenty of political decisions about historical things that are happening. There is no reason to actively renounce the possibility of calling it a genocide. We would be able to gather widely about it, all parties in the Folketing, if you just put a period before what I just read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165513	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165516	So what used to be plundering isn't plundering, is it? It's a plunder? So the majority has become singular just by this question? It's not a pussy, it's a disagreement. And there is a difference in that. This is a disagreement as to whether or not we should maintain the parliamentary tradition we have. I respect the fact that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative say: we will give up that tradition. I mean, you have a right to do that. But to accuse the rest of us of plundering because we say that we want to maintain that tradition is simply not a fair way of arguing, to the best of my knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165602	Well, actually, I'm glad to hear that speech from Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup. For the past, Mr. Nick Hækkerup asked Mr. René Gade, it was said by the Social Democrats that there was no difference between our two proposals for adoption. Now Mr. Nick Hækkerup, that there's a disagreement here, and that's absolutely right. There is a disagreement about whether to write what I was just reading, because that is what separates us. But if you took it away, if you did not insist by the majority that this should be done, and I can hear that the Conservatives and the Radicals believe, and it is also my clear impression that the SF thinks so, we would all be able to meet. So why insist on writing something that divides us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165647	Thank you both to the rapporteurs and to the Minister. No one else has wanted to speak on this matter. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 26 January 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165715	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119165747	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is, of course, important that electric vans can compete with conventional petrol-powered or diesel-powered vans. That is why the government also considers the proposal to be quite interesting. However, a large number of the Danish driving licence rules have been established on the basis of EU regulations, among others. Third Directive on driving licences. According to the directive, a normal car vehicle must have a maximum mass of up to 3,500 kg without being connected to a trailer, and the Danish rules are formulated in the light of this. For this reason, the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing considers that it would be contrary to the directive to introduce a change in the driving licence order, which means that holders of driving licences for ordinary cars may be allowed to drive with an electric vehicle with a maximum mass of up to 4,250 kg. However, it is possible for the Commission to authorise Member States to exempt specific types of motor vehicles from the requirements applicable to the different categories of driving licences. Such an authorisation was granted to Germany in December 2014, and it is on the basis of this authorisation that the German authorities amended their driving licence rules in 2015. The authorisation is granted for a five-year period and includes, inter alia: subject to the condition that the licence holders have had at least 5 hours of driving instruction in an electric car weighing up to 4,250 kg. The content of driving instruction has been drawn up in cooperation between the German authorities and the Commission. In addition, Germany shall report to the Commission by 31 December 2018 on the impact of the authorisation on, inter alia: road safety and the environment. It will require a similar authorisation from the Commission if the Danish driving licence rules are to be amended. We can, of course, like the Germans, ask for such a permit, but we should remember that a permit with a high probability will be granted for a limited period of time and on the basis of a framework which is more specifically defined by the Commission. And since Germany is already carrying out a similar experiment to be evaluated in 2018, it is the Government's view that we should wait for the German results before we even start an identical system with the Commission's permission. The government is therefore still open to consider whether the driving licence rules for electric cars can be regulated in a more appropriate way, which benefits the environment and does not jeopardise road safety, but, as I said, I believe that we should only look at this once we have obtained the relevant figures from the German evaluation at the end of 2018 and can decide on a more enlightened basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170103	There is a brief comment or question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170108	First of all, thank you for your approach. But should it not be said that we are dealing here with something that relieves industry of the administrative burdens that are in the process of being able to monitor who has which driving licences, while at the same time benefiting the environment? What would the argument be to wait for enough three years before we have had the German experiment completed, the report completed and a conclusion reached? There will be several years from today onwards. Why not start now and make that application?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170145	It is, as in so many other cases, because I believe that the cost of setting up such an experimental scheme in Denmark is too high in relation to the potential gain. There are already only a limited number of electric vehicles out there, and those such as this trial scheme, if we were allowed to carry out one of these in Denmark, would be the few who, on top of buying an electric vehicle, would be able to be trained for 5 driving hours in order to be allowed to drive it with a small driver's license instead of with a large one. So I simply believe that all the work involved in the fact that we must have the Commission's permission to do so, the fact that we have to report to the Commission afterwards, so that we can only have a time-limited period before we would have to abolish the system again if it could not be extended or if the rules were not changed, it is not worth it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170249	The Minister is right that there are few electric vehicles, and there are various reasons for this. They are considerably more expensive than the others, but another reason is that it is very inflexible for the companies to have these electric vehicles because, among other things, they... must train people for a large driving licence if they do not have to hire someone who has it in advance and then then they have the challenge of combining the vehicle with people who have the right driving licence. That is one of the reasons why there are few. So I think that instead of being the government's ambition, we could be doing this, but it's not the only thing that could help to get more electric cars on the street. But what is the cost to which the Minister refers when the Minister says that it would be costly to obtain such a derogation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170331	It is, of course, the resources to be consumed by asking for a Commission authorisation to inform the Commission that the Commission is willing to allow it to set up a system of driving instruction in Denmark so that people would be able to comply with the rules, the obligation to report back to the Commission on how the experiment has gone. All of this will then have to replace just waiting for the German experiment and the evaluation that will come out of the next year, and then looking at whether this is something we should go ahead with or not something we should go ahead with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170412	Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170415	Thank you. I would also like to follow up on what the Minister is talking about with regard to the cost being too high. I have a question: has the Ministry calculated what the cost would be? And another question: I also believe that this is about our role in terms of technological developments for electric cars and in promoting models that we may be able to export and thus also increase our growth and our knowledge externally, so why not join in as a pioneer country, as the rapporteur for the SF also talks about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170454	No, the Ministry hasn't calculated that, but I think it's a very laborious process for a very small result. On the other hand, would I like to ask the alternative if it is allowed: does the alternative have an idea of how many cars it might be that would benefit from this scheme if we applied for permission to do so and got it and did all this work to report to the Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170520	Thank you to the Minister for the question. Yes, well, part of what I am going to talk about in my rapporteur's speech is that this is, in fact, part of other measures that we need to take in order to promote a green transition in the transport sector. And if we now have a look at the registration fee and have a look at the exemption of, for example. The batteries, I think it could push a lot. There is no doubt that there are many self-employed people who might choose to have an electric car if there was more freedom compared to the battery charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170553-2	I have a little more doubts about whether there are many self-employed people who would take advantage of this scheme, either by going to driving school themselves one more time to get the necessary 5 hours or by sending an employee to driving school. There it is just that I have to say that if it is somewhere between zero and five or zero and ten cars, then there is very little learning to get out of it, and then it is just very tedious when one could instead just wait for the German experimental scheme and learn from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170627	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170634	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to make it clear that electric cars are part of an exciting technological development which forces us to think about new transport policy. This is a development that will undoubtedly affect the infrastructure of the future, and that is why we, as politicians, must also seize the opportunities of thinking these new technologies into modes of transport that can solve future challenges in transport. This applies, among other things, to: congestion and traffic pollution. In general, it can be said that if we politicians dwell on the past in fear of the future, we risk losing our grip on the social development that we want to influence. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is aimed at allowing holders of a common category B driving licence to drive a vehicle of up to 4,250 kg, as is also described when the vehicle is powered. The proposal has, among other things, been made. The aim is to ensure that electric vehicles can compete more with conventional vans and thus contribute to the wider circulation of electric cars in the goods transport sector. One of the problems that this motion for a resolution can solve is, of course, one of them. traffic pollution in the major cities. For when a driver with a common category B driving licence can drive a vehicle of up to 4,250 kg, if the vehicle is, as I have said, electrically driven, it provides an incentive to switch from conventional vans to electric cars. It is clear that traffic pollution can be reduced if we secure more small electric freight vehicles in large cities and thus get fewer heavy and dangerous diesel polluting trucks in densely built areas. Opening up for more people with a regular category B licence to drive these electric freight vehicles can be a way to solve the problem. The movement from polluting diesel cars to electric cars is a movement that we in the Social Democratic Party at a general level would like to support. However, it is also important that we do not make hasty decisions that can ultimately turn the everyday life of ordinary people upside down. Nor should we just join a technology because it is new and exciting. We must take well-considered decisions to ensure that the resolution does not have unnecessary and unintended consequences. That is why we in the Socialist Group would like to continue working on the resolution in committee, and in this way we can identify all the areas which have not been touched upon and which have already been mentioned in the motion for a resolution. I certainly believe that the resolution is interesting and worth discussing further. But on the part of the Social Democrats, we think that it also raises a number of issues that we need to discuss further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170939	Sir. Karsten Hønge. No, there were no more questions, and then we say thank you to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen welcomes Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119170950	Thank you for that, President. I'm not sure, sir. Karsten Hønge, that my speech will be as accommodating as the previous rapporteur was. I don't know exactly where this came from. I have been in transport for a very long time, and I have not heard of this before. This is not something I can see is some sort of public demand or some sort of massive demand from the car industry that you now suddenly want to have special rules for these electric vehicles. Generally speaking, I am opposed to making special rules. I believe that electric cars are so far advanced in their development and have been through such a long process that we must gradually adapt, what should we say, the market in terms of being able to compete on equal terms, without ever-increasing measures being taken for electric cars. And why is the limit equal to 4,250 kilos? ? Could it later be 4,800 kg, because that is now what is most appropriate, because you can then drive all the way to Lolland with them and back home? I think this proposal lacks some substance. I would very much like to be wiser during the committee procedure, but as it is right now, I think that we in the Danish People's Party are very far from being able to say yes, that is on the basis of what lies. In fact, I agree slightly with the Minister when it comes to the fact that there is an experiment going on in Germany. Well, let's see what's coming out of it before we start launching a lot of things in Denmark. And if we want to change these borders at European level, we have to look at it again. One last point I would like to mention is that this limit has also been made for road safety reasons, so I think it makes sense that we have the limit we have today. And I guess there's nothing wrong with making an electric car that stays within the limit. It may then have a smaller Europe, but there are certainly no large quantities of goods. If this is to be thought of as a thing that benefits the environment and is primarily something that is about driving something around inside the larger cities, and for my sake no alarm about it, then surely there is no need for the giant battery either. I don't think you should make special rules for these electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171218	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171222	I choose to hear it as a small opening from Mr. Kim Christiansen's page that Dansk Folkeparti will look at it in committee. I can't help but mention it now, sir. Kim Christiansen says that he has never heard of this before, that there is the Copenhagen transport company Citylogistics, which for some years has really tried to explain the challenge for their company not to be able to drive a regular driving licence with their cars in here in Copenhagen. That's one. The second is that I actually believe that Mr. Kim Christiansen participated in Transport Days in Aalborg last year, and in connection with it four researchers published this report that I have before me, which points out that it will help pave the way for more electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171307	I am sorry to say that I did not participate in traffic days in Aalborg last year, unfortunately, because I am happy to do so; I have done so often, for many years, but exactly last year I was not there. I must also admit that this whole debate has at least gone my way, but it may well be that it is because the companies concerned and those who might be interested in this, perhaps know that Mr. Karsten Hønge is more visible compared to electric cars than Dansk Folkeparti is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171340	Well I am quite sure that they know that SF is very forthcoming when it comes to such environmental measures. But I wonder whether it could not also be very tempting for the Danish People's Party to help ease the burden on business. That is also what this is all about, so the company Citylogistics in Copenhagen feels that it is precisely here that it is only the employees who have a large driving licence that can drive their electric cars that are very inflexible, because then they must coordinate it between those who drive ordinary diesel cars and those who drive electric cars. This is an unnecessary burden for a company that even does something in the service of a good cause, because they help to make Copenhagen both less polluting and less noisy compared to traffic. Moreover, their cars are also right-hand-drivers, so that they can also help minimise the risk of right-wing accidents. Kim Christiansen mentioned the road safety aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171426	I hardly know how to put it, but in terms of reducing the burden on business, I would say that, yes, we would very much like to do so. But I just don't think this has so much to do with lightening the burden on business, because if it follows the general pattern of prices in relation to what an electric car costs and what a conventional van costs, then I think it is quite a huge investment to buy such an electric car. I do not know the prices of them, but I am just saying that if it follows the prices of the ordinary electric car market, it is hardly easy to ease the financial burden on companies to allow them to invest in these expensive vans. I do not share the view that you can just drive around with a small driver's license, because it doesn't really matter with these 750 kilos. Yeah, it actually means something. And with regard to right-hand traffic, I would say that it can be very sensible in relation to right-hand traffic accidents, but then I am convinced, since we have right-hand traffic in Denmark, that there are probably some other things that you will miss.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171531	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171541	Thank you for that, President. With motion for a resolution B 30, the SF proposes that the government be required to make the necessary changes to the driving licence notice so that it is possible for holders of category B driving licences, i.e. small driving licences, to drive a vehicle up to 4,250 kg when the vehicle is powered, against the normal 3,500 kg. There is inspiration from the German trial scheme, which I admit is interesting, and I also look forward to 2018 to see the German evaluation. So how'd it go there? The purpose is noble, I have no doubt. SF has a noble purpose in this. We would like to see more distribution of goods in large cities with electric vehicles. However, the proposal also exhibits one of the weaknesses of electric vehicles. The fact that you ask for an extra 750 kg shows the fact that electric cars are heavy. They carry around a huge battery pack, which means that you have to move more mass around the terrain and in the homeland than you have to with conventional cars, and that is precisely one of the weaknesses of electric cars. It takes more energy to move around a considerably heavier mass. So it also exhibits a bit of the backs of electric cars. The Minister has already mentioned that this is contrary to the EU's third driving licence directive, and the Left does not want to take a stand with the European Union on this, but, as I said, we are waiting for the German experience with this, and then we will have to look at it at that time. I would also like to point out that there is some road safety in this. Well, there's a reason there's a weight limit of 3,500 kg. This has to do with road safety. Therefore, one could ask the proposers whether they believe that there is more safety because it is an electric car. It must be the rationale behind it. Apparently, when it comes to an electric car, it's safer. That question could rightly be asked. I am also afraid that such a system could well result in more bureaucracy and administration, at least in the public authorities, because then there will be an extra system that needs to be supervised and administered. It is not the Left's cup of tea to get more bureaucracy. As I said, I would like to acknowledge that SF is making a bid for something greener transport, because we need to focus on that. After all, we need greener transport, as we know, towards 2050, where we hope to be largely fossil-free, so we must therefore move in a green direction. I am very pleased that the vans that are now driving in Copenhagen and other major cities are much greener than those that drove 10 years ago. It's not like some old Hanomag's are bouncing off. They run very far on the liter, they don't emit near the number of particles that were done earlier, so that's good. And, of course, we have to move on. I imagine that, in addition to electricity, which is an interesting propellant, especially if it is produced green, because it is far from all electricity today, interesting propellants can be used as biogas, for which I foresee a future in transport. It has begun to be used in such cities as Skive, and elsewhere is on its way. I also imagine that hydrogen could have a role. We produce hydrogen at night when it blows a lot. Today we send our electricity to Norway and may even have to give money to get rid of it. Then it was perhaps smarter to use some of it to produce hydrogen, which could also be used as one of the future's propellants. So we don't stick to electricity as the only thing possible. There are a range of green solutions in transport that are interesting. Summa summarum I thank you for an interesting proposal, but the Left cannot support it at this stage. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171938	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119171940	But could Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen perhaps elaborate on why to wait? Here we are faced with a process which we can set in motion and which, at the same time, will ease the burden on business, make companies more flexible and make it easier for transport companies to move around with their employees, so that you do not have to have a large schedule of who has which courses and who can drive which cars, and at the same time we achieve an environmental gain. I believe, as the rapporteur also says, that it is true that other types of fuel can be used for cars in the future, but we now have the opportunity to look at electric cars. And we can see how Norway takes this into account, not only in the area of private car, but also to a large extent in the area of vans, and we can see how this market is developing in the Netherlands and in Germany. Why is it that Denmark should not be involved? Why is it that something has to be waited for rather than set in motion a process which, no doubt, no matter how much it is going to fill, will fill a lot, namely with electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172041	I am not sure that the premise that Mr. Karsten Hønge comes with, lightening burdens for any business. I know some electric cars like this are pretty expensive compared to conventional vans, so I don't quite understand that argument. We need cheap and efficient transport in Denmark, otherwise the goods will just become more expensive, and then we will all become poorer. So I do not quite understand that premise, but it may be because we think a little differently in this area. But we're going in a green direction. But I have still not received the answer as to whether it is the case that battery-powered cars or electric cars should be safer in traffic than other cars. It is also a premise for this proposal, since it is willing to raise the limit by 750 kg, with consequently longer brake lengths and all sorts of other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172127	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is quite right in saying that there is a very large price difference and therefore electric vans are also disproportionate. We have a majority here in the Folketing, which has made it so incredibly expensive to buy electric cars at all, and therefore electric goods vehicles are also disproportionately expensive. Where we lighten a burden is in the companies that have bought or are going to buy an electric truck, such as Citylogistics in Copenhagen. For them it will be easier, and it will of course be a relief to them that they do not have to sit and watch who has a large driving licence and who has a small driving licence in order to drive their cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172202	There is again a premise I do not really understand, that is, when Mr. Karsten Hønge says that electric cars have been made incredibly expensive by the Folketing. In fact, we have ensured that electric cars have been exempt until recently, and then a wide-ranging agreement has been reached, and I stress a broad political agreement on a step-by-step introduction of the normal taxes on other cars, precisely to spare electric cars. So I don't quite understand that premise. But thank you again for an interesting proposal, and we look forward, as I said, to seeing the German experience in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172230	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, there are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172245	The Enhedslisten certainly has sympathy for the intention behind this proposal, namely to spread the use of electric vehicles and, in this case, vans. This is very much needed. The green transition is very much needed, including with regard to cars and goods transport. However, we have some road safety concerns. In fact, there is a reason why an upper limit on the weight of vehicles which must be driven by driving licences for ordinary cars, i.e. driving licences B, has been set. We are afraid that, in addition to such a proposal, the weight limit for all goods vehicles, including petrol and diesel vehicles, will be increased to 4,250 kg, in the sacred name of equality, if I may say so, and one can easily hear the argument: why not? Why is it safer with electric cars? In this way, the proposal can easily act as a wallbreaker for a general increase in the weight limit, and we are opposed to that. The problem with the spread of electric cars is, of course, first and foremost that a number of parties, the Left, the Social Democrats, the Radicals, the Danish People's Party, at least initially decided to phase out the tax exemption they were subject to. The Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative warned at that time that it would lead to the almost halting of the sale of electric cars, and we were actually right. The sales of electric cars have almost stopped, at least have slowed down sharply in 2016. This is particularly regrettable because in the years before the electric car sales started after many years of influx in Denmark. So, in relation to that problem, increasing the weight limit for electric cars for driving licences B is a very small corner and so, as we see it, not without problems with regard to road safety, and that is why we are going to propose that the committee work, and I would almost say for once when we talk about a B proposal, is used thoroughly and well to clarify the various aspects of the proposal as there is, and therefore road safety. It should then also be seen as a preparation if we choose to go further along this path. I recognise, as the Minister has also said, that this is indeed a directive that is contrary to the law and something like that. Of course, I could choose to say, yes, up in... with it, because it is the European Union, and they should not decide that, but I would also say pragmatically that they do, and we are a member of the European Union, so that there can be some terrible problems. But you could prepare the same system as you have in Germany. So we think that the work of the committee could be used to call some experts in this area. It could be from the Council for Safe Traffic, from the traffic police or anyone else who has to do with this. This could be quite interesting and we will in fact make our position dependent on the fact that, for once, we will actually have a thorough committee work on this proposal. But, as I said, we have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, but it must be worked through in intensive committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172623	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172627	Thank you for the positive words. I would therefore like to give Enhedslisten such a handshake that I think we should use the work of the committee to find out if there is a way we can get this done so that the concerns can be cleared out - I understand from Mr Seligman's point of view. Henning Hylllested that it is the road safety that most blocks it. Could it not be imagined that we were doing the same thing in Germany with a 5-hour course, which would then be able to correct it, rather than predicting in advance that there is likely to be spiral development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172708	Yes, that could certainly be done, and I would say that if the work of the committee, which I hope we can get started, shows that it is fine and sufficient to compensate for the road safety problems that might be there I could, for example. Imagine that one of the problems is that the heavier a vehicle, the longer the brake length. But it is clear that if it is estimated by traffic experts that it can be done with a 5-hour course, then it is certainly a way to go. And that's exactly what I'm saying that we want to find out in committee work, and that's why I think we should take some time in the committee work to work this through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172753	Would the author like to make a further brief comment? No. Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119172801	The idea of motion for a resolution No. B 30, as several other rapporteurs have already said, is of course sympathetic. It is a limitation in relation to driving in electric vans that the limit for using a small driving licence goes at 3,500 kg. In order to simplify things and not to keep an eye on who has a small driving licence and who has a large driving licence, it is proposed to raise the weight limit by 3⁄4 tonnes. But the proposal also reminds us of the story of the man who invented a complete and one hundred percent effective remedy for mosquitoes, who had only the weakness that it should be applied to mosquitoes. Well, of course there's a big gain here, but there's also a lot of red tape built in. You cannot simply change the rules on driving licences, because then you will be in conflict with the directive on driving licences. Then you can copy a German scheme; however, it requires that you send people on course. The German system expires, and then you just stand there waiting again and say, "Well, what's it gonna bring?" And we need to apply for permits, etc. As several people have also said, it is a special arrangement for electric cars. Everyone who is interested in politics knows that we really need to be careful about special arrangements because they can be very difficult to get rid of. In other policy areas, there are arrangements right back from the time of war, which are still special and which still apply. So the simplification that is being proposed turns out, when you dig into it a little, not to be a simplification, but to be a great, great compliment on a problem which is perhaps not so great in reality, because there is not, in fact, a sympathetic proposal that draws on a lot of bureaucracy and many problems, which is why we cannot support the proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173027	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173029	I know, sir. Henrik Dahl is the Liberal Alliance's anti-bureaucratisation rapporteur, and that is why I am sincerely surprised at how Mr. Henrik Dahl can come to the conclusion that this should make it more bureaucratic. In the conversations I have had on several occasions with the owners of the small distribution company Citylogistic in Copenhagen, it is said so clearly that this will make it less bureaucratic because they do not have to keep an eye on who has a large licence and who has a small licence, so that this will actually make it more operational. One of the points of this is that it lifts a burden. Something has been achieved in Germany, where you have a smaller course, but there is a big difference between it and having a large driving licence. This must clearly ease the burden on businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173120	Yes, it does. I can follow that thought. But that means, as the Minister has also explained, an incredibly complex administration and some incredibly complex cases in the public sector. So we are standing here again, I would have almost said, with this problem, which is sometimes faced with so-called very high transaction costs, i.e. that the price of having the scheme can be very high. So these large transaction costs of schemes are also something that I think we should pay close attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173200	I'd really appreciate it if mr. Henrik Dahl could just specify what it is for some transaction costs that lie in it. This will, of course, make the day-to-day working of companies easier because they do not have to take into account who has which driving licences. So what are the costs that might be at stake here? Well, for the state there will be for a short period of time, that is until we have a derogation, and then it is in place. And I guess it's gonna work, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173226	In fact, that is what I am thinking of, i.e. the costs to the state which will be involved in the introduction of the system, overseeing it and ensuring that it is used properly and not abused etc. etc. In any case, I can have the fear that, before we have looked at it, considerable government costs have increased by having a rather narrow system, which is not being used by many.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173256	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173304	Thank you. B 30 - proposal for a parliamentary decision that holders of a driving licence in category B can drive a vehicle of up to 4,250 kg when it is an electric car we think we have got a good deepening of the framework. I actually agree with both the rapporteur and the other rapporteur that there might be more weight in the resolution, but I also agree that we really have to push for the green transition of our transport sector. And how do we do that in relation to electric cars? I think that one of the things we should stress in the committee's work is the German experience so far; that is, it cannot be so difficult to ask them any questions already. I was going to look at the website of the German freight forwarding and logistics association, DSLV, and it is precisely this load reduction that there is a shortage of drivers with a large driving licence and that the proposal here meets that challenge, while at the same time it is also about service. It is about the fact that we have some operators who would like to ensure that cities are less polluted and have less noise, and therefore it is an additional service that they can offer. But that also requires them to be able to see that legislation is being opened up to it and that there is less burden on it. The motion for a resolution actually goes beyond our debate on registration fees and our debate on electric cars. What do we do? Now not many people are interested in this, we hear several times, but it is also about, as we heard at the conference last year from our electric car manufacturers, that demand is not enough yet. Once again, this can also be an incentive for the industry to increase demand. So, on the whole, the alternative is actually in favour of the proposal, and we would like to stress in the further reading of the committee that we are just getting the German authorities to know how things are going now and that we may then also start talking again about the registration tax. Is this part of a bigger package that we're going to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173536	Thank you, sir. Roger Matthisen. There are no questions. So we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173545	In the Radical Left, we are very positive about the intentions of this proposal. Electric cars have the challenge that they weigh more than other cars because the battery is heavy. If there is an electric vehicle that weighs these couples of hundred kilos more than is allowed to drive on a regular driving licence, then it might well be that you should go in to look at it. On the other hand, I think that the Minister for Transport is very clear about the fact that there are some agreements in the European Union that Denmark has helped to conclude and which mean that the rules on driving licences are the same throughout Europe. Therefore, we cannot just change it in Denmark. I think it is very sensible that we in Europe should have the same rules as to which cars we can drive with a driving licence, because then there will not be a situation where we suddenly drive to Germany, and then suddenly it is illegal to drive in that car in Germany as it was legal to drive in Denmark. So it is logical and a good idea that we have common rules in Europe for which cars you can drive. That is why what the SF is proposing here is that we should either have a derogation or that EU rules should be revised. And I think we can discuss that in committee if we want to get involved in it, but some of what we could also discuss in committee is how big the problem is. So how many of the electric cars on the market are actually affected by this? I have to say, I don't know. I have also read in some newspapers that this battery technology is developing quite intensely, so it may be that in the next few hours it is no problem at all, because batteries simply weigh less, and then electric cars don't get into this challenge. The last thing we need to turn around in committee is road safety in this, because there is a reason why we have set the limit of a certain number of kilos, namely that if a vehicle is heavier, it is more dangerous to drive, and then you have to take a large driving licence. So let us take a look at it in committee and perhaps also go deeper, as to how big the problem is, and see if it might solve itself, or if there could be some objections on the way in the European Union, if it is really the case that all vans on the power can't get out to drive because of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173819	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no questions. We move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119173827	Thank you to the parties for having responded to the SF proposal and, of course, especially to those parties that were positive about it. I think we should take the opportunity to come closer to the solutions in that area and use the committee work for that. SF will give business the driver's license to the future. Yesterday I stood between two vans down here in front of Christiansborg Palace Square. One van drove on diesel and was able to load the contents from eight Europeans, the car pollutes and noises, and these are the kind of vans that fill up well on the roads to nuisance for the inhabitants and other road users, especially cyclists and pedestrians hauling particles well into the lungs. In order to drive that car, a common driver's license is required. The second car was the vehicle of the future, namely a van that drives on electricity. It is quiet as a mouse, a large mouse, but still quiet as a mouse, it does not pollute, and it was even right-handed, so swinging accidents are minimized. It can only load the contents of six Europeans. Nevertheless, the small cargo requires a large driver's license to drive the car. The reason is the heavy battery that drives the car, and due to the weight of the battery, the smaller load still triggers the requirement for a large driver's license. An electric vehicle is no bigger than a conventional diesel vehicle, rather the opposite. It is difficult to see what the road safety problem should be. The requirement for a large driving licence is inflexible for both companies and employees. SF's proposals will make everyday life easier for businesses and support the development towards better environment, both with less emissions and less noise. There is no doubt that significantly increased use of electric vehicles in urban areas will improve health and quality of life. Electric vehicles have a number of environmental and health benefits compared to vans on diesel, not least in urban areas. We need to take all the necessary initiatives to achieve a reduction in CO2 SF's proposal will be a step in the right direction, not a revolution, but just a small touch. SF works for several electric cars for private cars, but we will also promote electric vehicles that run on commercial terms. We must make it easy and simple for companies to use electric vehicles. The proposal here will make it easy and cheaper for companies to use electric vehicles because they no longer need to hire employees who already have a large driving licence, or alternatively pay for driving lessons for large driving licences. They also avoid the need for constant coordination between employees and vans, in relation to which cars are to be driven by which employees. In Germany, the rules were amended in 2005 on the basis of a derogation from the EU, so that it is possible to drive electric vehicles up to 4.25 tonnes with a category B licence. After all, a 5-hour course is much easier to handle than a big driver's license. Other European countries, including: The Netherlands has also taken several initiatives to promote the use of electric vehicles. Deputy Mayor of Rotterdam, Pex Langenberg, says that the ambition for Rotterdam is that they have green transport to the city centre by 2020. That's why the electric vans are welcome. They will help to make the air in the city's central streets cleaner, just as they will reduce noise pollution. I think we should have the same ambition as the Dutch. It makes no sense for Denmark to hold back with some, I think, somewhat formalistic arguments. A study conducted by Danish and German researchers recommends making the change because it can potentially create a market for electric goods vehicles. Linda Christensen from Transport DTU and Ole Kveiborg from COWI, together with the Germans Jens Jens Klaaenberg and Christian Rudolph from DLR, Berlin, wrote about the study in the electronic journal Articles from Traffic Days at Aalborg University: An important barrier to electrification is the weight of the battery, and a limitation of 3.5 tonnes for a regular vehicle limits it. The rules need to be amended for electronic vehicles, as has happened in Germany. This study recommends that EU countries follow the German provision, allowing electric vehicles up to 4.25 tonnes to be driven with a class B licence, in order to potentially create a market for large electric goods vehicles. That was my translation of the English text. And so far as the scientists are concerned. The study shows, among other things, that many vans drive less than 100 km on a daily basis, and therefore, with the current technology, the electric vehicle will be able to meet the needs of many. Electric vehicles will be particularly easy to use in industries with many short trips. The study points out that there are perspectives in using electric vehicles in e.g. construction. In Norway, which is in many ways a leader in electric cars, three researchers at the Transport Economic Institute have pointed to this industry as a place with great potential for development for electric goods vehicles; the result of their work was published on 10 February 2016. Of course, there are many other challenges before electric vehicles can break through on the Danish market, but SF's proposal pushes the cars in the absolutely necessary direction. Just step on the gas!
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174416	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174425	Thank you. What I would like to ask is how many of these vans have been sold? Because it appears almost as if it can save the entire Danish craft industry if we agree to this. So that's one thing. The second thing is, what kind of make is that? For I was thinking: I freely recognise that the rapporteur is much more aware of this than I am of this, because I have not seen these cars at all and do not know who might be negotiating them or what kind of make they are. At any rate, it must be someone who is not familiar with European rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174502	It is clear that there are not yet so many of these electric vans, because there are two barriers. One is that the electric cars are much more expensive. Of the two cars I was sitting yesterday, the diesel-powered car cost DKK 450,000, and the electric van cost 1.2 million. kr. So there is, first and foremost, an economic barrier which I think should be addressed, in other words, in relation to the price of electric cars in this country. But when companies have to fight to keep track of which employees can drive in which cars, it is another trip wire for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174539	Thank you for that information. That is actually what I wanted to see, namely that the price of such an electric car is 1.2 million. kr. I think it's a little bit searched when mr. Karsten Hønge says that we in the Danish Parliament have almost made these cars more expensive. I guess they're the ones who produce those who may not have got the volume in it. That is why we had the tax exemption for a period of time. It was for us to give the companies the opportunity to get volume in this, so the cars came down at the same prices. As a result, these huge million-dollar Tesla cars are driving around in the Copenhagen street picture and not the small electric cars that we really wanted to have on the street to promote the environment. Sir. Karsten Hønge cites Rotterdam as an example. Are there dispensed in the Netherlands for these cars? Or do you just want to do what you do in Germany? I did not quite understand the comparison with Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174638	In Rotterdam, they have a political objective that they want vans to be transferred to electricity. They do not have a derogation in this way, but in various ways they support it politically, because they have a strategy that they want vans to drive on electricity inside the city centre. But it is also clear, as I said sometimes, that this is not a revolution. I said directly that this is a little bit like making it more attractive to drive electric vehicles. And it is the case with everything that the more attractive we do something, the more will produce it, and in time it will also be cheaper. What we can see is that electric vehicles are flowing into the market in Norway, in the Netherlands and in Germany. I just think that we should be on that wave and that we should make it easier for businesses. It is not only about them having to contend with the economic challenge that there is, of course, in that they are more expensive; there are also a number of other things with which they have problems, their scope and so on. But the point is that the future lies in the electric vans, and this can be one of several things that needs to be corrected to make it attractive to the companies. I would say that the small company Citylogistik in Copenhagen has stressed to me several times and now it is not the first time I met with them, it has happened a few times that for them it will be one of the stones they want to see removed on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174745	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. No one else has asked for the floor, but in the interests of safety I should like to ask whether anyone has been overlooked. There isn't. That concludes the negotiations. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170119174807	There is no more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for the work of today's work in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 20 January 2017 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
