ParlaMint-DK_20171123100002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100008	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100034	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and ALT)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100055	Let's get some rest! Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100127	We are several parties in the Folketing who think there are some outstanding questions about what the intention of the bill is actually. The intention is a position of equality or equality, but we simply believe that the basis of assessment is wrong. On behalf of the SF, we have submitted a report and I know that there will also be a late amendment, but because we are not sure whether it is a real political disagreement or whether it is simply a disagreement in the way the calculations are made in the Ministry, we believe that the proposal should come back to the committee for a further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100213	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100218	Thank you. I just want to support SF's announcement. We think that there seems to be a contradiction in the draft law. You want to align biogas with diesel, but when we look into the calculations, it is a very small adjustment that happens. I have received the impression, particularly from the industry and other players who have turned to the proposal that the very small change will not make a difference. That is why, I think, we need to take the matter back in committee and I have been working on an amendment to the effect that the adjustment of the tax can otherwise be added so that it will make a difference and really equate biogas with diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100309	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100314	In fact, here at the eleventh hour last night we have been made aware by some stakeholders in this area that there may be some challenges with the bill. It is difficult for us in the Radical Left to understand what the consequences of this are and whether it is something that really makes a difference. That is why we can support the fact that the proposal comes back in committee so that we, together with the Ministry of Taxation and the Minister for Taxation, can clarify it. We hope that the government will be a part of that too. I am, of course, sorry that this is happening at the eleventh hour, but I think it must also be a good idea for all of us to get to grips with what is up and down in the information we received here yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100401	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100411	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and SF)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100434	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100449	We often have these discussions when we talk about double taxation agreements, DBOs, about what kind of countries we are entering into these agreements with. After all, the whole point is to secure transparent and proper tax agreements that work for both countries that conclude the agreement. In this way, it can be said that if we want to have as many DBOs as possible, we will necessarily also be making them with countries that do not have democratic transparency or which do not have the same level of governance and tax control, etc. as we have in Denmark. So it's not a general objection from the SF on this point. But precisely Azerbaijan is playing a leading role right now in one of the major corruption cases, one of the biggest cases of money laundering and tax evasion, and that is why the timing is almost bizarre now, when we have to make an agreement based on trusting each other's authorities and on exchanging information not only for the benefit of business but also to ensure that double taxation does not occur and that there is no double non-taxation. We have had this discussion with the tax minister, and I really think the tax minister agrees with that. Now it is going on that there may be a tax havens from the European Union on 5 December. At least it sounds like it's on the stairs and that is why I think it makes sense to wait for the ratification of this agreement until we have a tax havens list and know what to do with it and until we know what we ourselves in the Danish Parliament think it should be used for. For example, we are going to have to do something like this. not enter into DBOs with countries that are on the tax havens? So, on this basis, I would actually appeal to us to wait until there is, after all, only a very, very short period of time for the European tax havens to come on board and we will have a discussion in committee again on whether there is a lower limit to what kind of countries we want to make tax agreements with. After all, it is a regime that, directly from the top place, has been deeply involved in money laundering, bribery, corruption and tax evasion. So I think that is different from other countries where you might say that they do not have the same level as in Denmark, but where it still makes the most sense for us to enter into agreements. Then we thank the rapporteur). Hey, and so I would like to thank you, President-in-Office of the Council for calling for it to come back to committee, because I think it is a matter of principle whether we enter into agreements with countries that are so deeply involved in corruption as it seems to be at present in Azerbaijan and what it will mean in principle with a possible tax havens list and whether it should have any impact on which countries we are making DBOs, so I would like to have it back in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100742	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100751	Thank you, President. I think it is good that the proposal comes back to committee. I have the basic point of view, both as a minister and also as a parliamentarian, that if a member of parliament wants a proposal to be sent back between the second and third readings, it must be accepted as a starting point and then, on an enlightened basis, a political discussion can then be held in committee. And as such, this proposal does not have to be rushed. I would just like to say that, in my view, it is misunderstood when the SF's rapporteur argues that because there are challenges with money laundering and corruption and other issues in the country in question, in this case, Azerbaijan is not to make a double taxation agreement, that is, if we do not have a double taxation agreement, we will increase protection. If you do not negotiate a tax regime with these countries, it is easier for them to act as tax havens, money laundering countries or something else. It is also in the DBO that Denmark has increased its ability to actually carry out control and cooperation with the Azerbaijani authorities, so if you do not vote for the double taxation agreement, you risk doing yourself a disservice in relation to what the SF's rapporteur says. So I disagree politically with the purpose of sending the proposal back to committee, but I respect as a minister and a parliamentarian, of course, that it is a request made by the SF, and that is why the government supports it coming back to the committee between the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100931	There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123100934	Thank you. I respect, of course, that this is the Minister's political starting point and, to some extent, I can agree that such agreements can create more binding cooperation. However, is it not true that the Minister, when we have discussed this here, has also said to me and to others that the DBOs are not perfect either, that there are indeed some DBOs which actually open up abuses that open up the possibility of capital being moved around in countries with which we have DBOs? So there is also a battle side in this regard. Well, DBOs are not a guarantee that there is no tax evasion or money laundering.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101022	No, it is not a DBO, but it is significantly easier to be a tax havens or a country where money laundering is carried out if we have no agreement on the exchange of information or any other contractual regime on what is to be paid in tax, both to avoid double taxation, but also to avoid double non-taxation. It is, of course, true that the DBO that lies, which has many years on the back and was originally negotiated many years ago, but which has only recently been signed by Azerbaijani and now has to be ratified here in the Folketing, could well be better. But if we compare it with not having an agreement, I would say that we would therefore be significantly worse off than we are today, and that is why my position with the Folketing is that we should support this DBO.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101109	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101126	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101142	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Administration Act]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101218	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101235	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101254	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101314	Thank you. After all, we are addressing a number of proposals in the municipal area, and that is very topical, because we have just had municipal elections. This proposal is a follow-up to the agreement reached between the government and KL, i.e. the National Association of Municipalities, an agreement that we in the Social Democratic Party support. This element is about the fact that today there are different kinds of municipal communities, i.e. companies formed across municipal boundaries. This often happens, for example. in the area of waste, waste incineration plants and such things, but in fact also in the field of emergency services and in connection with municipal dental care, food production, nature and the operation of natural areas, ports and ferry services, where two or more municipalities come together to solve the task better and cheaper and with more quality for the benefit of the citizen. Today it is the case that when you make such a construction, there is an automatic requirement that you go to the Ankestyrelsen for approval of such a community. The proposal here specifically proposes that, with regard to the smaller companies of this kind, we no longer have to do so, and if we fail to do so, we can cut red tape and we can get more job-solving and more welfare, as it is, for tax money. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101458	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101504	Thank you. As has been said, the draft law we are discussing here today aims to make it simpler and more flexible for municipalities to establish and collaborate in municipal communities and also provides an administrative relief for municipalities and the Ankestyrelsen as supervisory authority. According to the legislation on municipal communities, also known as §60 companies, where the municipalities perform some of their tasks in an independent governing body, these, as the law is today, must be approved by the Ankestyrelsen as the municipal regulatory authority. This bill removes the requirement for the Authority's approval requirements for, as it is described, small enterprises from three criteria: a balance sheet total of 44 million. kr., a net turnover of 89 million. kr. and an average number of full-time employees during the financial year of 50 persons. This has been estimated by the Ankestyrelsen to be about two thirds of the companies established under § 60 companies today There have been a number of concerns in the hearings, among others. from the Danish Industry and Waste and Resource Industry, among others. compared to the fact that it will open up further municipal activities and further unfair competition with private companies, and that is of course something Dansk Folkeparti will ask about in committee. I also have further questions about how such companies can be abolished, as the bill suggests that the Ankestyrelsen is no longer competent to abolish municipal communities, but that it is the participating municipalities that make this decision and that it must be taken in agreement. When we talk about remuneration in these companies, we in the Danish People's Party are happy that it is clear from the bill that, as a result of the fact that the Ankestyrelsen is not required to approve the statutes of small municipal companies, only meeting allowances or lost earnings can be granted to members of the governing body. It is also in the light of the tedious cases that have taken place, about board members in municipal companies, where members have managed the citizens' money in a totally unacceptable way, and that the salaries have gone skyrocketing. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party reject, and it is therefore reassuring with this bill that only diets or lost earnings are paid. We look forward to the further examination of the draft law, but we also have some clarification issues in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101749	Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101755	Thank you for that, President. The Left may support the draft law on the same grounds as those given by the two previous rapporteurs. One addition: the proposal is not about promoting public theft of tasks or the opposite. There may be some ideology in it, and I think we have that in the context of a question debate later today. The draft law is about simplification and debureaucratisation, and this alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101841	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123101852	Thank you very much, President. This is the first meeting of the Folketing after the municipal elections, so I would like to congratulate everyone on the election. The good thing about a municipal election is that, although not everyone is equally satisfied, it is not possible for good reasons, because some people take votes from others, so there are always some bright points in such municipal elections that you can enjoy. So there is no problem, then, in congratulating each other on an election where there was probably also a fairly acceptable turnout. As far as the legislative proposal is concerned, unlike the previous rapporteurs, we are not part of the support for the economic agreement in which the proposal is based, as we believe that it actually leads to a erosion of welfare. But that does not rule out the fact that in such an agreement there can be something sensible, and certainly there is in this respect. It is, of course, extremely sensible that the municipalities should have the opportunity to cooperate across the board and thus have a better use of taxpayers' dollars, simply. And we also support the fact that this cooperation and the possibility of achieving the less bureaucratic is being made possible by the fact that municipalities and communities up to a certain size do not have to send their cooperation in for approval by the Ankestyrelsen. We do not really understand the concerns of Danish Industry and others that this should lead to the municipalities becoming more involved in professional activities. I would say that, if that were the case, this would be a further strong argument in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal. But unfortunately it is not, because it is regulated by quite different legislation. This is all about the procedure when the municipalities enter into such cooperation and their access to professional activities will not change, so we will have to have the second debate later. That is why I do not wish to enter into a debate on the highly ideological term 'theft of tasks': the theft of tasks by the public authorities. But let's get back to it later. I would also like to say to those concerned that there is still supervision. The Ankestyrelsen has to supervise. And there's actually still a handle to go in and say, "Hey, what you're doing there isn't right, because the municipalities still have to live up to this loan notice."I think it's called "and submit their accounts, which the Ankestyrelsen has to look for in the seams. So I don't think there's any reason for all those worries. Like the Danish People's Party, I would like to welcome the fact that it is clear here that in such communities only diets and lost earnings can be paid. At least in this context, we are beyond the discussion we had not long ago about certain legs for certain municipal representatives when they represent the municipality in other contexts. It is perhaps not entirely reassuring that the Ankestyrelsen cannot fully explain which communities exist. I think that is a little messy, so we must work on this in committee, just as I am of course also aware that we need to clarify the issues raised by the Danish People's Party. So, on that basis, Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102225	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102235	Thank you. This is, of course, one of the proposals which it is quite difficult to have any objection to, as the previous rapporteurs have also said. It goes without saying that when you take some municipal tasks that the municipalities have the competence to put into a company, there must be quite clear rules of play on how to handle the tasks under which you do it and in what way you do it. Because it's not an ordinary delegation you can go back to. It's just like the company. That is why there must also be some approvals, and here we have found a model light for these approvals, which I think is quite reasonable. In relation to the concerns that have been with Danish Industry, I do not know if it can be called the theft of tasks. It may be a rather violent word, but if you sit in such a company, which I have had the pleasure of for many years, then you can easily recognize the problem that such self-employed entities want to grow large. There is, like implicit, an exercise in the fact that now you are put in the world, and then you can take care of another task, and then there comes something else that might also be exciting. It's never so dangerous when it's the public who's behind it if it goes wrong. We've seen that in some places, too. That's why I'm comfortable with the fact that you still have to get these things approved. I think there is a need to keep a watchful eye on such organisations. It can then be called so much, but we must not allow the public to deal with more than is strictly necessary if it is to be done well and effectively. That is why we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102422	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102428	Thank you. In the alternative, we like municipal communities, and we like to free municipalities to navigate themselves as much as possible. And as I think the other rapporteurs have explained very well the content of this proposal, I shall not repeat it. I would actually like to be brief and say that we have every confidence that we can take away a little bit of administration so that it will be a little easier for the municipalities to achieve the economies of scale and the cooperative advantages that exist in the municipal communities. We think that's really fine. It would be good just to get the answer to some of the questions that some of the other parties have asked, but all in all we are happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102515	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102534	Radical Left is a decentralized party, and we would like to see municipalities and regions given more tasks and opportunities to make decisions themselves. When decisions are decentralised, they are also closer to the citizens and citizens become more involved and can have more to say. That is why we also support this bill, which makes it easier for municipalities to cooperate. Struer had a debate some years ago about joining up with the municipality of Holstebro. In the Radical Left we think that the municipalities are already large enough and we think it would be bad if a city like Struer could not have a local democracy around their schools, nursing homes etc. However, it may be that Struer must cooperate with other municipalities on some of the tasks that Struer may be too small to solve. Struer is just an example of a place where cooperation with other municipalities is a good idea. And that's why we agree with the intentions of this bill, which makes cooperation a little easier for the municipalities. We support L 78.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102638	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102644	Thank you for that, President. As a starting point, SF has sympathy for all measures that can simplify and facilitate the municipal assignment, which is why we also support the proposal to abolish the approval requirement for small municipal communities, not least when the municipalities can reasonably easily withdraw from the communities again. At the same time, however, it is important for SF that the private members of the municipal council have full control over the municipal assignment, which is why we will also ask whether there are limits to the case-in-law of the council members in relation to the transfer of tasks to a community under Article 9 of the governing law, but as a starting point we are positive about the proposal and intend to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102733	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, and then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102744	In the first place, I welcome the great support for the legislative proposal. As you know, this translates part of the government's agreement with the Municipality of Landsforening on the economy of the municipalities for 2018, and the proposal should ensure a more efficient operation and task solution in the municipalities, so that citizens' tax dollars are used most effectively. The draft law abolishes the requirement that the Ankestyrelsen, in accordance with Article 60 of the Law on the Administrative Board of the municipalities, must approve the statutes of small municipal communities, i.e.: for the municipal communities which meet the statutory criteria for being small enterprises. This would mean administrative relief, because local authorities and local communities should not wait for approval. It will also increase the flexibility of the cooperation when the municipalities' joint assessment of the appropriate conditions for the cooperation is not also to be assessed and possibly neglected by the Ankestyrelsen. So I believe that this is a real, albeit modest, simplification proposal and I hope that the municipalities will be able to exploit the potential. There were a number of questions from the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party which were mentioned that would be drilled deeper into during the committee procedure, and I will of course answer them in this regard. One of the topics mentioned by the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, was the possibility for the Ankestyrelsen to cancel and suspend communities, but I would like to say that there is a misunderstanding in the consultation answer that has come into this area. It is the case that the Ankestyrelsen will have the opportunity to annul and suspend a municipal decision if the participating municipalities have decided to establish a municipal community on an illegal basis. So I was already able to answer that question on a stand-by basis, but the other questions I think we will answer in writing in committee and, of course, I will make myself available to the extent that the committee would like. But thank you for the broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123102950	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103016	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103029	With this bill, we stay in the communal world, and it's about whether or not we have to require the municipalities to have half-yearly accounts from in here. They have done so since 2011, when it was adopted as part of a legislative proposal. At that time, in 2011, we voted against the Social Democrats, and the arguments were then, and now I read out: "Of course, managing the economy is a good thing, and if such half-yearly accounts can help, we can really be positive about it. I wonder, though, whether the municipalities are already doing their best, and I wonder if it would be possible to go a little further with confidence and respect for local self-government? And should we not be careful now that we do not come up with too many new bureaucratic measures here at Slotsholmen, which we are dragging down over the heads of the country's municipalities? ▪ We are far more concerned with providing a realistic framework than with creating even more bureaucracy here at Slotsholmen. And with regard to the steering tools, it has to be said that the half-yearly accounts are questionable. That's what we said in 2011. But it was adopted and some time ago there was a report from the research centre VIVE, which showed what the effect is of these half-yearly accounts and it is non-existent. It turns out that the vast majority of municipalities use the accounts very little in their financial management. At the same time, we can see that compliance with the budgets in the municipalities has been resolved without the use of this tool. That is why I think it is very, very good that we now have a proposal from the government to drop it again. Perhaps it should never have been introduced in the first place. This has probably meant that, overall, we have spent a large amount of employee hours and economy on implementing these half-yearly accounts. I think it makes sense for the money to come out to work and work where it does good in our municipal welfare. So we strongly support this proposal. I think there are both political and research-based arguments that this kind of bureaucracy is not needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103309	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left Sorry, this is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103316	Thank you. This bill abolishes the obligation on municipalities to publish half-yearly accounts. It was precisely a legislation that was introduced in 2011 where the municipalities were required to make half-yearly financial statements. The aim was for the municipalities to be better able to comply with the budgets as a whole, because we saw a number of overruns in the period 2001-2009. When we look back on the municipalities' accounts from 2011 until now, the municipalities have now 6 years in a row complied with the agreed level of service and expenses agreed each year between the government and KL. We therefore now have a different situation and the reason for maintaining the obligation to draw up half-yearly accounts is no longer there. In addition, an analysis by the former KORA and the present VIVE shows that it cannot be shown that the requirement for a municipal half-yearly financial statement has been the reason why the municipalities could comply with the economic agreement. The report shows that approx. 65% of the municipalities do not use the half-yearly accounts in their financial management at all. This bill is also one of the elements of regulatory simplifications, and the abolition of half-yearly accounts for municipalities can release an amount of 1 billion. kr. It is money that we in the Danish People's Party think can do better in the bourgeois welfare, including for the elderly and people with disabilities and for all those who need a little extra. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103506	Thank you for that, President. The Left can also support the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they can do so too, so I remembered it. This is not a proposal which is based on the fact that a mistake has been made when it was adopted at the time, as one might get the impression when one listened to Mr Beazley. Magnus Heunicke's reasons why he supports it. As he said, in relation to the introduction of half-yearly accounts, the Social Democratic Party had stated that managing the economy is obviously a good thing. And this was expected to happen in the municipalities. No, the reason why this proposal is superfluous is that, with a change of government and a social democratic government, the budget law was adopted and adopted. That is why the half-yearly accounts are irrelevant. And then, as Mrs Adsbøl has said, this proposal creates, as with the previous proposal, the framework for fulfilling the economic agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and the government in relation to raising 1 billion. kr. for modernisation, efficiency and debureaucratisation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103651	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123103702	Thank you very much for the floor. The legal rule we are now abolishing here has always been ridiculous, so it can only go too slowly to abolish it. So we are really happy about that in Enhedslisten, and we will, of course, vote for this with great enthusiasm in relation to the effect of the change. Unfortunately, however, I agree with the previous rapporteur, Mr President. Carl Holst, in his analysis of why it has become superfluous, also seen with the eyes of the government which introduced it at the time. That explanation, sir. Carl Holst's coming with us is absolutely right. That's because the SRSF government, by the way, with Mr. Bjarne Corydon led, with great zeal adopted and implemented the budget law introduced by the previous government. So I do not like the rapporteur to go up there and say: it has been shown that the municipalities are observing the budgets, and that is why we do not need them anymore. No, that's not true. The municipalities don't keep their budgets. The municipalities are anxious to be affected by the sanctions laid down in the budget law, where collective punishments are carried out, as in the military. If a single municipality or two or three exceeds the framework imposed by the Ministry of Finance, the annual economic negotiations, then everyone will be punished, and that is why more than 40 billion have been saved in the municipalities today. kr. Up. Now you can't use such strong words about what happens when things just get to lie and then start smelling really ugly. You can't use such ugly words in this Parliament. But that's what happens to that money. At the same time as the municipalities are cutting welfare costs, there is increasing spending of less and less money per employee. older people in this country, there are billions of kroner that the municipalities are not allowed to spend now, because if they spend it, they are in conflict with the very same budget law and with the ceilings set for what the municipalities are allowed to spend on construction and service costs. So it would be nice if the rapporteurs did not stand by and say that the municipalities are now complying with the budgets. I'm afraid they don't. If you finally had to have the tighter management of the municipalities' finances... Enhedslisten doesn't agree... then we should have a reverse budget law that required the municipalities to spend the money for welfare that they actually get measured. It's not Enhedslisten's proposal, it's just to put things in a little relief. But that does not change the fact that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104000	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104002	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I am glad that we agree on the factual point; then we can disagree a little on the political importance of this. I would like to ask the rapporteur something: does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a significant difference between before the budget law is introduced and after, in relation to whether there are budget overruns in the municipalities, why it can be said that the budget balance in the municipalities has been improved by the budget law and creates the security needed to run the public sector in a way that avoids stopping and go, that is to say large savings and large profits, and is now getting more secure operation with the budget law? Then it is true that it has collective punishment as an element. I think the rapporteur referred to Thind or where such collective punishment takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104107	Thank you for the question. No, it was now the military that I referred to, with which, after all, I have some personal experience. You'd rather talk about something you know about. Then I do not recognise the rapporteur's view of the wonderfulness of the budget law. It is quite true that there were overruns, but today we have got into the quite different ditch with the result that welfare suffers in a large number of municipalities, and I think everyone knows that that is the case. We can only relate to the fact that since the tight regulations were introduced by the VK government, the number of municipal employees has fallen by 37,000. It is 37,000 full-time jobs that have disappeared in the municipalities and, by far, the vast majority of them are jobs in the welfare sector. These are the educators, they are the school teachers, they are the social and health workers who should have taken care of our children and our young people and our old people. That is, of course, the consequence of the budget law, but of course it is also compared with the governance that lies in the economic agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104217	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104229	Thank you. Of course we must abolish absurd demands. I think it has been many years since the municipalities' half-yearly accounts had any effect whatsoever on the ability to manage the municipality's finances. We have quite different means for this in today's Denmark, and several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. So it can't be fast enough to get this bill passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104256	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. No, it's not Mrs Marianne Jelved. It's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104309	Thank you, President. There is, of course, a duty to draw up half-yearly accounts which we believe is totally unnecessary. The municipalities can figure out how to do this themselves. So I would like to say quite briefly that we would like to contribute to dropping half-yearly accounts which many of the municipalities do not use anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104333	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104338	The Radical Left can support this bill which abolishes the requirement for half-yearly accounts. We can do this because it saves red tape and thus also saves money and labour in the municipalities. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104354	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104400	Thank you for that, President. I'll try to be brief, too. Of course, in the SF we support the proposal, firstly because time has run completely from the law on compulsory half-yearly accounts. Today, unlike before 2009, the budgeting in the municipalities in the country is very well managed, so much so that many municipalities do not fully fill their service framework. Secondly, the SF always supports sensible regulatory simplifications in both state, regions and municipalities. However, in the SF we also think that the current budgetary situation in the municipalities should give rise to an evaluation of the entire current municipal sanction regime, not so that the municipalities can simply use loose, but the municipalities should have better opportunities for smaller overruns of the budget framework, better transfer of unused funds to next year, possibility of multi-year agreements and such. One fact is, of course, that we have witnessed under-consumption in a number of municipalities in recent years due to the existing sanction regimes, and in SF we actually believe that under-use can be as problematic as over-consumption and to great harm to both growth and, above all, to the detriment of welfare. But for the time being we must recognize that there is not a majority in favour of this Parliament, at least not yet. That is why I should just like to reiterate that the SF supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104527	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104535	The aim of the draft law is to abolish the obligation on municipalities to draw up half-yearly accounts. This obligation was introduced in 2011 because it wanted to ensure that the municipalities complied with the budgets, which had been difficult for the period 2001-2009. However, since 2011, the municipalities have been meeting the agreed level of service costs. The bill is part of the agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and the government on the economy of the municipalities. I should like to thank Parliament's parties for a wall-to-wall backing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104616	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104630	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104646	The proposal here is about the relationship between the members of an urban council, a municipal council, a citizen's representation or a regional council and their mail account and then those who are formally their employers; it may be the mayor, the regional council president or the administration that is there. In some cases it is considered to be employers. So it is today, and that means that today, under the Personal Data Act, a municipality may be entitled to go in and read in the municipal mail account of one or more council members. If, for example, is a concrete suspicion it can be about a number of different things • yes, then the municipality can actually pursue its interests in such an action. This has been used far from everywhere, fortunately, but we have examples that a mayor with this rule has been given the opportunity to go in and read many, many e-mails written by political opponents, and it does not belong anywhere. Unfortunately, it has belonged to the law until now, which is why we have to say that we fully support the proposed amendment of the law by the government, which says that in future there is no right to go in and read in the mail correspondences of council members or members of the regional council. If there is any concrete suspicion of abuse or of criminal activity, it is clear that this is a matter for the police, and then the police must go in and investigate. And just like in all other cases: if it is a matter that is serious enough, then the police can go in and investigate, also by accessing mail accounts and other things. We know that from criminal law and other things. So that part's gonna have to be dealt with by the police. But that is the task of the police. It cannot be that political opponents can read in each other's mailboxes. I have to say that I was personally surprised that this was the case. But thanks to the fact that the Danish Parliament raised this matter and the Minister responded to it, we can now put an end to the possibility of doing so in the future. We support the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123104952	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105003	The purpose of this bill is to protect the communication of a municipal or regional council member in the performance of his duties as a member of a municipal or regional council. The draft law stems from the fact that there have been incidents in which a mayor or a municipal director has entered into the e-mail account of a city council member due to disagreements on city council cases, accusations of leaking documents, etc. It should be borne in mind that a municipal councillor cannot be regarded as an employee, and thus there is no employee-employer relationship which is the reason why it would be correct that mayors or municipal directors should have the right to access a municipal councillor's mail account or text message on the phone. A municipal councillor is elected and therefore neither the municipal director nor the mayor is accountable. Of course, a Council member must be able to have a dialogue with citizens or other politicians on matters or political strategies, and it is important that this information is exchanged in a confidential space. Political strategies and information about future cooperation in particular can of course be misused by a current mayor, and that is totally unacceptable. Based on the consultation responses from the Data Protection Agency and their concerns, it is important to maintain that the members of the municipal council and the members of the regional council are subject to the obligation of professional secrecy under the personal data law and that the municipality is still obliged to provide secure communications services to the members of the municipal council in order to secure data against hacking. A municipal councillor who receives information on a case where it is considered that the citizen wants information to be included in the municipality's handling of the case should pass on the information to the municipality, at the same time as informing the citizen thereof and recommending that a member of the municipal council should not become a case officer. With this bill, three political levels, the Folketing, the Regional Council and the Municipal Council, will be subject to the same framework in terms of treatment as part of their political duties. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105152	Thank you. Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105207	Thank you, President. The Left also supports the proposal, and we do so on the basis of the same reasons as those of the two previous rapporteurs. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal. Having said that, I have a little bit of wondering why it is necessary, but we can of course see from not least one case in the municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern, but also cases from two other municipalities that this is necessary. But I would like to say again that I am surprised that it is necessary to make this clarification of the law, because it should be the case that, of course, it is not politically possible in relation to an administration that people, even if they suspect one thing or the other, can go in and see other people's private e-mails. It is then, and we will have that clarified, and that is why the Left supports the proposal. Then there is something in relation to some of the hearings. In the further work, we need to focus on the fact that the data protection law needs to be synchronised with this work, including in relation to the members of parliament. I am sure you have a look at that in inter-ministerial terms. KL, the National Association of Municipalities, then mentions that there may be problems with the procedure, in relation to whether, if you do not have access, you can do the right journaling of the case from an individual municipal member who gets a citizen's application. This is not a problem that has gravity, because citizens' references to municipal councillors are one thing. Cases are handled in the municipal administration, and all members of the municipal council should know that, and I think they do too, and if they do not know, they will probably be told here in connection with intro courses for new members. Then there's the whole confidentiality part. Yes, that is precisely an argument for making the change, because, of course, in municipal and regional work there is more sensitive and quiet information, but that does not change. Finally, as far as access to documents is concerned, this draft law has nothing to do with this issue and the draft law will not mean that the public, interested parties or those covered by the rules on extended case-by-case access to it will be restricted. As I said, the Left supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105505	Thank you. I would ask you not to use a flash from the gallery and not to get up and photograph. Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105530	Thank you very much. The previous rapporteurs have argued excellently in favour of the proposal. I would just like to add that it is only very reasonable for the members of the Council of Municipal and Regional Councils to be equal to us members of parliament on this issue. So it must be seen as a clear improvement in the legal certainty of Members too, it must be said. And since it does not in any way violate citizens' legal certainty, we can only all be satisfied. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105606	There is a brief comment. No, it is a mistake that the pressure has been exerted, I see, because I do not assume that Mrs Stine Brix will have a brief comment. So I think the rapporteur can go down again. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105624	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here aims to ensure the maximum possible confidentiality of the various communications services of city and regional council members, such as e-mails and telephones. The bill will mean that you will not be able to access these mail accounts or phones that have been made available to them for their work. This is actually possible in municipalities and regions, under certain conditions, for today it must be a little wondering, but that is the way it is. It simply makes no sense in a well-functioning democracy to risk being looked over the shoulders of any political opponent, as elected in a municipality or in a region. We must, of course, ensure that the elected representatives do not do so until the new Personal Data Regulation comes into force this May next year. That is why we support the proposal to protect local politicians from 1 January and to ensure that the elected representatives have a confidential room to communicate on municipal and regional issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105736	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105741	Thank you. In fact, we have discussed this bill a great deal in the Alternative, and I have been looking forward to hearing the debate in order to get some more nuances in it. I think it is a little bit about that personal freedom to have a room to talk about politics and talk about important things in terms of versus transparency. I also think, when I follow the debate in relation to what we have been talking about, that it is extremely important that we have a larger space where, with different motivations, we cannot go in and expose people's e-mail correspondence if there is no reason to do so. And if there is that and what has been mentioned before is very, very serious, then you can report it to the police. I do not yet think that, although I have researched a little myself and listened to the debate, I have found any examples that, if we say yes to this bill, we are reducing transparency. And if I still don't find it, we'll vote for this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105855	There is one point I should like to make, so the rapporteur needs to stay a little on the floor. Sir. Carl Holst, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123105900	I can reassure the rapporteur that there is nothing in the legislative proposal that reduces transparency, transparency, public access, etc. However, this is a matter of the sense of legal certainty, given that, on the basis of the apparatus provided to you in the exercise of an elected office, you also have the opportunity to use it privately, and that these private activities, whether in relation to your wife, children, mistress, or whatever, must continue to be private. So this is about legal certainty and privacy in relation to private activities and not about secrecy in a public office.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110004	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst for the further clarification that I will take into account in our deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110011	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110020	Radical Left believes that this bill is very, very important. Last Tuesday, that is to say yesterday, no, the day before yesterday, as time goes by, a lot of committed people were elected to the city council and regional council, and right now they are in the process of installing themselves at their new jobs. This means that they will have a computer, a phone and much more that they will need for their work over the next four years. I do not think that the many new members know that their new e-mails can be seen through by government officials in the municipality. We saw that, among other things. in Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality, where the mayor decided to put an official to browse the e-mail boxes of selected council members. The Radical Left felt that the way it was doing there was unacceptable and that is why we have raised this problem with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. But we would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation and for bringing forward this bill. This means that local elected e-mails can no longer be reviewed by officials and political opponents. It is important and we think it is quite natural. We can support the bill and once again sign for cooperation with the Minister and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110125	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110134	Thank you. Perhaps today I would like someone in the Region of Southern Denmark to listen very carefully, in other words, to have a smoking disagreement on some points, but to agree entirely with some others. It is not every day that I have the opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of the Liberal Alliance, but nevertheless there must be unreserved praise to the Minister for making this proposal quickly, as it was clear that a municipal councillor, even from the red block, could not be sure of protecting the general secret of correspondence if his municipal e-mail account was used in connection with his council office. But there must also be praise for the strong West Jyde, Councillor Niels Rasmussen, who went all the way through Parliament and courts when it was clear to him that the municipality's management had clicked into his mail. Morality in this matter is that it is both useful to complain when one has been unfairly treated, but that the responsiveness of the rulers, in this case the government, is also a very good thing. SF supports the proposal, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110237	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Carl Holst, a comment? Excuse me, is that a comment? Yes, the rapporteur will have to go back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110248	I would just like to acknowledge to the rapporteur that we have the same view of legal certainty. And then the rapporteur mentioned something with the Region of Southern Denmark, which I did not understand. However, I would like the SF in the Region of Southern Denmark to have the same view of legal certainty as the rapporteur here from the platform expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110309	Wasn't that just a comment? At any rate, I have a great desire that we can also succeed locally in allowing disagreement to be divided and yet unite in getting the best agreements for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110323	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110331	Thank you. I am fully aware that there was a very, very nice greeting from Mr. Carl Holst. And we would like to thank you very much for that. Thank you so much. But now I actually just got the chance to crash into the hall and take this one myself. And, of course, we would like to try to draw attention to the views of the Conservative People's Party in as many cases as possible. So now I just took the chance. But thank you very much for helping a dear colleague. In the Conservative People's Party, we can also support this bill. I really believe that many of us in this Chamber today have thought or assumed that this was the case in advance and that there was no need for the legislative proposal we are debating today. But cases have shown that, unfortunately, this is needed. And that is why I would like to commend the Minister for having acted quickly on this matter and to ensure that we can already deal with this bill today. There must be confidence that we can communicate without being seen over the shoulder. There must be exactly the same opportunities for local and regional elected representatives as we have here in the Folketing. That goes without saying. That is why we, the Conservative People's Party, also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110432	Thank you. And then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110441	On Tuesday the Danes went to elections and elected members of 98 municipal councils and five regional councils. This bill must ensure that the newly elected members of the 103 local and regional assemblies have the opportunity to have their mail correspondence in peace. And it is a very good principle that there is an opportunity to communicate about political things without the risk of political opponents or officials looking over your shoulder. I would like to thank you for the incredibly broad support in the Folketing and for the good cooperation that has been with the parties of the Folketing, and of course also for the nice words that have been from several sides. In relation to the issue raised by the Alternative's rapporteur, it is important to say that the things that are about general transparency are completely unchanged with this proposal, that is to say, understood in the sense that, for example, The Public Service Act is still in force, just to mention it. And then I just want to say that I hope that we will be able to get an entire Parliament to support the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110600	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110615	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 November 2017. There is first a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110644	Thank you. Two days ago several million crosses were set when the Danes went to municipal and regional elections. Now we have had 98 new city councils and five new regional councils elected, and they have to discuss and decide how to improve our welfare and decide on how to run a very large part of the public sector; how to give priority to them. But the government, in the government base of November last year, has announced that it will take power from the elected representatives of municipalities and regions when it comes to how much competition needs to be launched. The government will force municipalities and regions to set a certain percentage of competition by introducing what is termed mandatory targets for competition deferral. So far, however, the government has done nothing in relation to this part of the government base. Does that mean the plans have been dropped? If that is the case, I would like to promise that there will be no criticism of any breach of the promise, but there will be plenty of praise after the Minister's reply. On the other hand, if it continues to be the government's plan to force municipalities and regions to put out competition, then it will face opposition from Enhedslisten. In any case, we think it is important that the many new city councils and regional councils know what the government's plans are, and that is why our request to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior here today is: what can the Minister say about the government's plans for mandatory targets for exposure to competition for municipalities and regions on the basis of the government's basis? I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110834	Thank you. Then it is the minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123110841	I am incredibly pleased with Enhedslisten's preoccupation with targets for competition exposure, because competition exposure is a very good tool for ensuring efficiency and quality while creating innovation in public performance. One could choose to have a very ideological debate on this issue, and then, as a liberal, I would talk about outsourcing alone, and as a socialist one would talk about the public having to carry out all the tasks. The government has chosen to try to take a deideologised view, namely to say that it is not crucial whether the supplier is public or private. What is crucial is that the tax dollars reach as far as possible, so that the money that is now being collected is as much as possible. Let me begin by stating that the Danish economy is doing well: growth is high, and never before have so many been part of the labour market; last year alone, almost 50,000 more came into jobs. The recession is favourable, but that does not mean that we should sit back and cancel the reform work. The Danish economy faces important challenges that we have to deal with, for example. several companies report difficulties in attracting the necessary labour. The reforms of the labour market and the tax system in recent years have produced good results, and we consider that the supply of labour will be approx. 40,000 people higher in 2018, than it was in 2015. It is important that we continue the path of reform. Now the economy is getting up and, with reforms, we can make the recovery last longer and bring more people into the working community. Increased competition is a small part of maintaining a good and healthy public economy, and the government's ambition is to deliver more tasks to competition. It also contributes to the development and future security of the welfare society. It is always good to test the market, so we get the best product for the price. As private individuals, we are making up for offers with the greatest of course when we have to renovate our own house or apartment, in order to ensure common sense, in order to ensure a good price. What is common sense when you make up an offer at home is also common sense when you, as a municipality or region, obtain an offer. It can be said that it is actually a form of competition, because at home you may find the craftsman too expensive and end up doing it yourself, but perhaps you will find a craftsman who thinks: yes, it is a good offer for the price, I will accept that. In the government we do not find it satisfactory that developments in the field of competition exposure appear to have stalled. Yes, there has been a slight increase over the past year of 1⁄2 percentage points, but we still think that is too slow. There is a big difference between the extent to which competition is exposed to each municipality and region, with the best municipality putting out half of the tasks, while the last in the class only barely every fifth task. So there is great potential. It is important to make it clear that competition exposure is also about quality. Private suppliers can of course deliver quality. In fact, there is no evidence to suggest otherwise, and in fact a municipal supplier is not automatically a guarantee that everything is going well. They may not be the key, but quality failures can still be there, and sometimes they may continue because they are not detected. Public service providers may also need to be better able to describe the required level of service and keep track of whether the service provided corresponds to the agreed level of quality. In the government, we believe there is a need for a lever to move forward, and that is why the government, as Enhedslisten has remarked, would like to set targets for increased exposure to competition. Previous experience shows that it works. The agreement on target figures for municipalities in the period 2007-2010 under the then government contributed to a higher trend in competition exposure than in subsequent years without target figures: an average increase of 0,7 percentage points in the period 2007-2010 and for the period 2010-2010, on average, only below half. Target figures I think that is so important that can be designed in different ways. We have not said that it should be done exactly as it happened last time. It is of course important that this should be done in an appropriate and effective way. It is important that we are both ambitious and realistic, and we are preparing a comprehensive government proposal for increased competition. So I have to say to Mrs Stine Brix that unfortunately there will be no breach in the sense that we are not making a proposal. We will seek a broad dialogue on the follow-up, we will have dialogue with the parties of the Folketing, with the municipalities and with the business community. Competition deferral is basically closely linked to a free choice. Freedom of choice is also important because it is the needs and wishes of the citizens that must provide a framework for the aid that is provided; not everyone is the same, we have different wishes and needs, and the government has come up with an initiative to strengthen and extend the free choice in the area of health and the elderly. There is an initiative in relation to recovery patients; if the public authorities cannot offer recovery within 7 days of discharge from a hospital, the patient will have the right to choose recovery from a private supplier and there is an initiative with an experimental scheme in the area of the elderly. We will try out new forms of involvement of private suppliers in the free choice of rehabilitation courses and food for the elderly. In order for citizens to make use of the free choice, it is a prerequisite that they have an overview of suppliers and therefore we want to conclude an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities and professional organisations on better information about the free choice of elderly care. Finally, through a service check on free elections in the wider areas of welfare, we will examine how free elections are actually being used by citizens and where there is an opportunity to strengthen citizens' free elections. The Danes are happy with the free choice. In the area of the elderly, the use of private suppliers ensures that citizens have this choice, but we have also seen a number of examples of bankruptcies among private providers of home help in recent years, and that is a real shame, both for the elderly and for the employees. We will never completely avoid bankruptcy when we are dealing with private companies, just as we will never see that no mistakes are made when there is a municipal supplier. The government has concluded a broad agreement with all parties of the Folketing to prevent bankruptcy in home care, and we are among others. agreed to require bank guarantees, municipal contingency plans, as well as requirements for the continuous post-calculation of transfer prices. We want more competition in the public sector, but the framework for private individuals to be able to perform more tasks must be in order, both for citizens and for private companies to compete on fair terms, both for the benefit of citizens when they are recipients of municipal services, regional services and state services, but also for the sake of citizens when they are taxpayers. Fair terms must also be the password when the public offers tasks via control bids. There has been criticism of the fact that control procurement rules do not work well enough, and that is why we are currently discussing with Parliament's parties whether we can revise the rules for control bids in municipal and regional tenders. The aim is to ensure greater transparency and a stronger follow-up of the controls. I think it is important that we move on to the agenda of increasing and developing public-private cooperation. We should not be stuck to the idea that it is only the public who can carry out the task. Of course, it is the public sector that is responsible, the public sector that is responsible for the task, the public sector that is a competition publisher and is asking for tenders from the private sector, but it must also do so on its own. That is why it is important to set aside prejudices. As I said at the outset, I think that the government has stretched out its arms and set aside the ideological hardcore version, which would simply have been said to be outsourcing, outsourcing but, on the other hand, ensured that competition postponement will become an integral part of the responsibility of the municipalities and regions to a greater extent. Because competition is healthy, it increases quality, it provides incentives to think new when you are not the only one who can deliver it. It is for the benefit of the citizens, it is for the benefit of the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123111835	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123111851	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. At any rate, it is now quite clear to me that it is still the Government's desire and ambition to introduce mandatory targets for competition postponements. I am surprised that the Minister did not mention what I was asking at the outset, namely that we have just had a new election for our many municipalities and regions. And the fact that the many new elected representatives will be deprived of the rule as to when competition is to be put out on the table, and thus amputate local selfgovernment, was not at all part of the Minister's reply. Whatever the majority chosen in the municipalities, regardless of the majority chosen in the regions, regardless of the attitude that exists as to whether it is wise to use a ban on competition, yes, then the government will dictate how much competition needs to be put out of business and how much potentially can be outsourced. We disagree with that approach, and that is also why, back in 2011, together with the SRSF government, we removed the mandatory targets for competition deferrals. And I can also, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, promise the Minister that we will work hard against the government's plans to reinstate that coercion. Perhaps the Minister's approach is a little in line with that I know best approach. I also find this worrying in the wake of an article I have read at Altinget, where the Minister himself spoke on tendering, tendering and competition deferrals. There the Minister said that nothing is sacred, that everything in principle can be exposed to competition, that everything in principle can be put out to tender. I just have to say that I disagree, and I think there are a lot of people out there in the municipalities and regions there too. What about social pedagogic work, which spends a long time building relationships and where it has huge consequences if you run the risk of the task suddenly going to others? What about our kids who go to a school that could risk bankruptcy? Yes, what about the elderly, whom we already know the consequences today? That is why Enhedslisten does not want to see the privatisation of nuclear welfare any more, because we can already see what the negative consequences are. The minister himself said that we have seen a large number of cases of bankruptcy in the care of the elderly, but in the Minister's speech it was a little bit like that: well, that's something you have to take with you. I just want to say that this is not the case in the municipalities where these bankruptcies have occurred. This is certainly not the case among the employees who have experienced their workplace suddenly disappearing from one day to the next, and certainly not among the elderly, who suddenly do not know who should come and provide home help with them. And the consequence of more outsourcing and privatisation will be that the risk of bankruptcy increases. It could then be the social education offer that goes bankrupt. It could be kindergarten, or it could be in school if it were also to be exposed to competition. You have, for example. seen in Sweden, where a very, very extensive bankruptcy took place a few years ago, where 11,000 pupils were relatively short before the exam, and suddenly saw their school group going bankrupt. We also know, both from Denmark, but also from Sweden and Norway, that several of the large private welfare groups that move into welfare use tax havens. It is clear that it undermines our welfare society when money is thus sucked out of welfare and ends up on the Cayman Islands or in one of the other well-known tax havens. Then we also know from extensive Danish research that when outsourcing and privatised, and when private companies go into welfare, then the primary consequence is first and foremost worse pay and working conditions for employees. It is well documented when we look at welfare areas that that is actually what is happening. Cleaners must run significantly stronger and clean larger areas without giving them more time to do so. Social and health workers have to drive around to the elderly with some road maps that are not connected at all and where you have to be in several places at once. This is what happens systematically when private companies move in. This also means, of course, that we as citizens pay the price in terms of less welfare, less time, worse cleaning and so on. That is why we have also seen a large number of examples of municipalities having to take, for example. cleaning or wage management or garbage management or other tasks outsourced back again because it either became more expensive or worse or both. Very important, and in clear contrast to what we often hear from the right, much, very extensive research has actually been done in Denmark in this area which shows that there is no evidence that private companies are better or cheaper when it comes to soft welfare. There's no record of it. And that really makes very good sense, because we know that when private companies go into welfare, yes, they have to make money and make profits, as opposed to the public sector, and in this way it will be very easily more expensive. That is why there is a very good reason to stop outsourcing and privatisation and not push for more of it to come, but let our community continue to take care of the soft welfare. Because there is exactly this obvious contradiction between the interests of society and the interests of private companies. As taxpayers, we want a school to be run with the aim of improving the skills of the pupils, of getting the best school and of running the nursing home so that the elderly have a good everyday life. However, the primary purpose of companies will always be to gain a profit. Is the public sector that perfect? No, by no means, that's clear. But I just have to say at the end: there are many things that need to be done about, but one of the things that is helping to degrade our public sector beyond the savings that are counting down on it is precisely the bureaucracy, the control that comes with when you have to outsource and privatise. That is why one of the ways in which we will have a better public sector, where we can take more account of what is technically correct, that we will have less outsourcing and privatisation. These must be my words here, and I would like to conclude by reading a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and Socialist People's Party, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark has a well-functioning municipal self-government. The Folketing believes that municipalities and regions should be given the freedom to organise the task in the way that is considered to be most appropriate locally. This also applies to cooperation between the public and private sectors. Therefore, cooperation between public and private actors should not be based on the fact that a municipality or a region is forced to carry out certain tasks of competition. With compulsory exposure to competition, municipalities risk additional costs and unnecessary bureaucracy. In the recent municipal elections on 21 November 2017, local representatives were elected to the country's 98 municipal councils and 5 regional councils. The Folketing is confident that the newly elected municipal and regional council members are best placed to assess where it is appropriate to send municipal tasks in tenders. The Danish Parliament therefore calls on the Government not to re-introduce the former VK Government as a statutory provision on the municipal and regional obligation to suspend competition. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 -
ParlaMint-DK_20171123112712	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123112734	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for having called this debate. And thank you to the Minister for the first answer. We are then, we have to note, in the situation that we do not know exactly what a tool it is that the government will use. All we know is what the government's basis says, namely that the government will present a plan for how more tasks can be put out to tender using mandatory target numbers. The minister then said that it is not safe to use the same mechanism as the last time we had these targets. So the debate must, as it were, be based on the political position as to whether this is a good idea, but with the reservation that we do not then know the tool the government intends to bring up. This does not change the fact that we Social Democrats are opposed to the kind of supply constraint in which we in the Danish Parliament believe that we are wiser and know better about the close welfare and how it is to be carried out than our city council and regional council. Well, we have just had a choice here the day before yesterday, and I am absolutely convinced that the people who have come in and have gained the confidence of the electorate must have the opportunity to play the role without string pull from Christiansborg. We Social Democrats think so. But the interesting thing is that if you ask the municipal people of the government parties, it turns out that they disagree with the government here. And the most important of them is the Mayor of the Left and current chairman of KL, Martin Damm, who this year told Danske Kommuner on this subject, and I quote: "The decision on specific tenders must be taken in each municipality. Not based on mandatory target numbers. The potential for increased private use must always be assessed locally. With binding targets, competition in a market that is not ready for it may be threatened. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the very high costs for both municipalities and suppliers are linked to the provision of more tasks. And that's from the First Man of the Left in the municipalities. Nevertheless, the government is deeply concerned that this should be promoted, despite this one, I think very, very concrete and very strong warning from Martin Damm of the KL. Because he's absolutely right. It's totally dependent on what the situation looks like out there. In some places and in some areas it makes sense, in others it doesn't. Such a target number, that is, a force from here to offer so many percent, doesn't make much sense. If you look out in the country and ask what the blues and what the red mayors are doing and if there is a difference, then you can see that yes, there is a difference. But it is not the case that the party is necessarily a huge difference. It depends on where you are on the map, whether you are in a big city or in a slightly smaller town where there is longer between houses. Such things are also crucial to whether there is a private market. It has to be said that in this election campaign the Danes have also been asked what they really think of more tenders. And the Danes clearly say "no" according to the surveys I have seen "no" to outsource the near welfare, for example. elderly care and cleaning. So for us, this is too much retail management and a misunderstood approach to how we have democracy in Denmark with local self-government, where you can find out close to the citizen how to solve the tasks. As mentioned by Enhedslisten, the binding target figures that had been introduced were removed when we arrived as a government in 2011. At that time, the Liberal Alliance voted in favour of the removal with the argument that greater municipal freedom would arise if this power were to be abandoned, as the words were from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur. It is quite interesting, I think, that the Liberal Alliance has now changed its position and that they are now going to force this through. And it is a pity that the Left is not listening to the many mayors they have out there who are warning strongly against this, which is pure ideology and state management and detailed management of our municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113242	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113256	Competition delay • Is it good or bad? For DF, the most important thing is that all municipal and regional tasks are handled in the best way, that the tasks are carried out at a high level. It is not necessarily contrary to the fact that tenders can be made, but it presents some challenges. Of course, when tendering is carried out, it must be clear and transparent how the municipal or regional part is calculated, so that there is real competition. But the key to the Danish People's Party in connection with municipal and regional procurement is that we have to distinguish between tenders in the more technical areas.That may be roads, it may be buildings and similar services, and then invitations to tender in the bourgeois areas. When it comes to the municipal core tasks, we are really concerned about whether they can be offered. We look forward to the government's initiative in this area, and we will particularly focus on that, for example. care for the elderly is guaranteed the soft values that are absolutely central here. We will be absolutely sure of that. Procurement can only be carried out if it makes sense so that we do not blindly carry out invitations to tender just to carry out invitations to tender, and in the Danish People's Party we very much doubt that it can make sense in the key core areas. Having said that, on behalf of the government parties (V, LA and KF) and the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it important that municipalities and regions provide a good and effective core welfare. Competition exposure can contribute to the development and maintenance of a modern welfare society. It is important to put ideology aside and to be pragmatic. Competition exposure must pave the way for the highest possible quality and innovative solutions from a citizens' perspective. It is not decisive whether the supplier is private or public. What is crucial, however, is to ensure the best possible welfare for the citizens of Europe. The Danish Parliament believes that competition exposure can be a good tool for describing a level of local political service for which the municipal council or the regional council can stand up to the citizens. Parliament is awaiting the government's proposal for a general ban on competition. In this context, the Folketing stresses that citizen-centred areas are only exposed to competition where this makes sense. The government should therefore describe how individual initiatives can be designed in a flexible and appropriate way, focusing on the bourgeois conditions in each region or municipality. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113517	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113522	Thank you. For me, it is not clear from the rapporteur's speech, nor, to that extent, after the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur read out, what is the position of the Danish People's Party on the fact that the Danish Parliament decides, determines, compels municipalities and regions to carry out a certain part of the public tasks. Can the rapporteur enrich us with what is the position of the Danish People's Party to do so in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113555	I believe that it is first and foremost important to have a discussion on what these are for some areas that can be offered with meaning. Secondly, I think it is important that possible agreements on the suspension of competition in the municipalities should be conducted in dialogue with KL. Typically, something like this will be something that is part of the agreement that a government makes with KL, about what it's gonna be like, and on what terms. So it's in the context we see this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113625	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113627	After all, the former VK government introduced a law that could force and sanction municipalities that did not meet a certain mandatory target figure. It was not an agreement, and that is also why we have seen prominent local politicians from bourgeois parties being out and saying clearly against these plans for mandatory targets. So what is the position of the Danish People's Party that you want to do what you did in the past, where by law you forced the municipalities to put a certain proportion of the municipal tasks into competition? What do you think of that method?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113708	As I recall, it was about making a law that followed up a deal you had made with KL. And the key thing for us is that there should be a dialogue, because what must be quite clear in the end is that we should only offer where it makes sense and where it also makes sense. And if you haven't KL over it, we don't believe it's gonna work. Whether it should be implemented in such a way that, on the basis of some agreements, some legislation will ultimately have to be made in order to do so, I will not deal with it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113739	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113740	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. At any rate, the rapporteur said one thing that I agree with, namely that you should not outsource if it does not make sense. I think we all agree on that. Then there are some very different views about when it makes sense, but that is certainly a good sentence. The conclusion must therefore also be that it makes no sense at all if the Danish Parliament dictates to the municipalities certain targets for how much competition is to be carried out. The rapporteur must agree with this. And that is why the rapporteur should also come to the conclusion that the Folketing should not dictate a target figure to the municipalities. Is that what the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113832	As I heard the Minister say before, what the government is thinking of is, of course, not square targets that say that it should be so and so, but something that is going to take place in a dialogue. In the first place we will have an initiative from the government to which we will relate here in the Folketing. And what comes out of it must be taken up from my point of view in a dialogue with KL, so that you just find out that it has to make sense; that is the core of it. And that is why it must of course also make sense in the municipalities. It doesn't make any sense if we dictate something from here that doesn't make sense out there. So that is why it has to make sense, for me to see the key point and a dialogue on it. Whether it ends up in something that has to do with legislation to make it work or not, I cannot deal with it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113918	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113920	It was not crystal clear, but then let me ask in another way: does it mean that if the KL gives a clear message to the government that they are not interested in the Folketing setting targets or in any other way forcing them to put out competition, then will the Danish People's Party support KL's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123113945	I think it will be very difficult to get procurement processes carried out and make it work if you do not have a dialogue and if you cannot agree on how it should be done. So I believe that it must be in the process that comes, that is to say, to ensure that it makes sense in relation to the overall result.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114010	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114019	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and the proposal for adoption. In terms of content, i.e. whether to offer or not, it is precisely a question of whether it makes sense that we agree. But the question is precisely the very principle of municipal autonomy, so where does it make sense to make the decision? In the debate that will then come between the government and the KL, is it absolutely crucial that the KL knows that if they say no, does the government have a majority to force them, or does it not? That is why it is essential to know what is the position of the Danish People's Party on this issue. So, is it the case that if KL says: We are not interested in a fixed percentage such as the last one, is DF on the KL's side or on the government's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114106	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114107	As a starting point, DF is on DF's side, and this means that we now have to see what kind of proposals might be put on the table. I will not stand here and give the KL the right of veto over what might come. But I would say that we will go in and look at the proposals that are coming and then we will work on that from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114129	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114130	So far, so good. I think we can say that it is certainly not a guarantee that the government has a majority, and that is also the way I read the reservations that have come into the text of the adoption in relation to the citizen's welfare and something like that. Because this is going to happen, that is to say there will be a debate, and we have to assume that it is a very, very realistic scenario that this will be a main theme in a forthcoming debate between the municipalities and the Minister of Finance. At that time, when we know the concrete proposal from the government, DF has to make a more robust announcement: are they on the part of the municipalities who have to carry out the close welfare and are they the ones who have to decide, or is it a compulsory set-up by the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114223	Well, forced-setup and forced-setup, we are above all on the side of the core welfare, and that means that we are very, very concerned about pushing tenders through in those areas. I also thought I said that very clearly before, because we find it difficult to see how this can be done, so it makes sense. That is why we are anxious to see whether the government can make any suggestions as to how it makes sense to convince us. Well, that's kind of the starting point for this. Because if you talk about roads and buildings and everything else, then I think we can all agree that that can be done in many ways and that there will not be much trouble with that. But it is clear that, in terms of core welfare, it is essential that we keep the level and keep the quality. We all know examples of what has not gone well. So we are very, very concerned, but we will not reject what we have not seen yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114309	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114312	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the questions from Mrs Stine Brix in relation to where it is that it would make sense in concrete terms to have fixed targets or, for that matter, to decide centrally whether or not to do outsourcing. An agreement with KL is therefore an expression of a central agreement, whether it has been concluded with the government or whether it has been concluded on behalf of all municipalities. I would very much like the rapporteur to be very specific as to where it might make sense to give up entirely a predetermined opinion on municipal procurement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114352	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114354	Now I can take as a starting point the fact that I myself am actually sitting out in a municipal council, and some of what we are discussing, and which we are saving on over and over again, is the maintenance of our roads and the maintenance of our buildings, knowing that it will cost us a lot of money, but here and now we are saving on it. I would like to say openly that we have sometimes discussed whether we should not be subject to a requirement that roads should only be maintained, i.e. that money should only be set aside for them. So I could imagine that in some of the areas where common sense says that you should spend money, but where you do not do it municipally, because you now sit with each budget and spend the money on something else, in a dialogue with KL could look at where it really makes sense. Where would the municipalities also find that meaningful? So, yes, I can see areas where it could make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114440	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114442	Thank you for that very precise answer, because that is exactly the point. And congratulations on the mayor's post on Læsø, where I know, for example, that you also have this discussion about something a little bigger, namely the supply of ferries. In this way, perhaps we can agree that there are very many places where a central decision would not make sense, but where, on the other hand, it would make very good sense with local democracy precisely in order to solve the task in the most appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114512	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114514	But it also depends very much on how one imagines to make the demands that might be made of the municipalities, i.e. how square or how open it is to have a desire to increase supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114528	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114535	Thank you for that, President. The Left and the Conservatives are behind the joint proposal for adoption which the previous rapporteur read out. I would like to agree with the Minister's remark that this can be looked at in a very ideological way, but it can also be looked at in practical terms. Along with an ideological starting point, the Left looks at it practically. I think sir... Finn Sørensen said in an earlier debate today that only the term task theft is ideologically charged. You might think so. I just think that it is an expression of having a practical and ideological starting point that says that something that can benefit from private life should not be nationalised. That is why I also think that there is a certain amount of ideological rhetoric in it when the authors of the question debate also use the expression that you want to privatise in the municipalities when what is being proposed is an increase in the use of tenders. Yeah, private companies can go bankrupt, but the government can go bankrupt. Sometimes you improve quality by having healthy competition. And I believe that a breach of the monopoly on the task solution can help to ensure a broader assessment of how best to get the right service. And no, the quality of the right service is not only measured by what is cheapest, but also by a number of other parameters. That is the ideological and practical starting point for the Left when we look at the government's proposals in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114759	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114802	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is barely able to keep his mouth shut when he says these things, because it is an amazing sense of humor that has spread in the Left and for that matter also with the Minister. Here we want to introduce a law dictation that municipalities need to spend a lot of resources on putting things out of competition that the municipalities may not want to put on competition at all because they have to achieve a certain goal. It's called a nonideological approach. Let it go. I am, in fact, more interested in the further process, because I understand that there will be a presentation from the Minister, and I think the Left Party will have some influence on that. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, in this process, we will have some facts about the consequences of introducing such target figures; that we get a thorough and impartial attitude, which may lie in the word'supervise', examining what the consequences are actually for each municipality, when it needs to spend a lot of resources sending things and cases in tenders that the municipality does not think should be put out to tender at all. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will support the fact that such thorough analysis is being carried out so that we will be discussing on the basis of the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123114928	I'm sorry, sir. Finn Sørensen got the impression that I couldn't keep my mask. I just took it very seriously. It is important to me that this area is both ideological but also practical, and I think there is perhaps a slight tendency in the rhetoric underlying the question debate that everything is only good if it is purely public and national. And I have the practical and ideological point of departure that there are also things going on outside the sphere of public affairs that work well. That is, for example, the case. free schools, which are, after all, some form of indirect exposure to competition in relation to the primary school. Then I turn to the remark that this is a dictatorship of law and, therefore, something very, very odious. We're doing nothing but law dictates in here. Take the primary school law and the establishment of a framework for inclusion and everything else; there are a great many examples of creating a regulatory framework which will then be implemented locally. And in this case, when the government comes up with its proposal, you can guess what it's gonna look like. I hope and believe that it has a recognition that the 98 municipalities are not uniform in size or critical mass with regard to the possibilities of tendering and that, on that basis, this will be differentiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115111	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115114	Thank you. It was certainly no criticism that the rapporteur looked happy and smiling, that is not how it should be understood. The great contradiction is, of course, that on the one hand we are saying that we should not outsource at all costs, because it should only be when it makes sense, after which the government's basis was laid up on the other side and still lays the foundations for the Folketing to adopt certain targets, which the municipalities should probably no longer do. But I asked a specific question: will the Minister support the fact that we have a concrete independent analysis of the consequences of wanting to force the municipalities to do so? There's gotta be some material from the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115203	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115204	Now, the rapporteur has twice addressed me to the Minister, but perhaps that is what you see as me sometimes having difficulty keeping my mask on and not in relation to the political speech I make. About the facts I go back to your first question, which I didn't have time to answer. Yes, I support the fact that we need facts about this area. Then you say independent facts. I believe that the facts are facts, whether they are independent or not. But it is important that we of course get the empiri on what the value is of making a competition postponement. That is also the answer to your next question about target numbers. We are not saying that they should just say that they should get a price and get an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115300	Thank you. Now it is going completely in relation to charges with Minister, rapporteur, you and yours. It's a good thing we're about to have a lunch break. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115315	Thank you. My question is a little further than that of Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen's question, and this is the fundamental question as to why at least the Left here in the Danish Parliament believes that it is the Danish Parliament that should decide how much competition should be postponed. Why does the Left, or at least the Left here in the Danish Parliament, not think that it is a decision that should be taken locally where it is possible to assess when it makes sense? We've heard that sir. Magnus Heunicke of the Social Democratic Party has previously quoted the now outgoing Chairman of the KL from the Left, Martin Damm, to say very clearly that he believes that it should be a decision that is taken locally. So why does the Left not have more confidence that the many councillors, the many members of the Regional Council, elected locally by the Left, are the best people to make this decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115412	So does the Left. We are not saying that they should We say that they should ask for price and quality. We say it is important to find out if something that is going on today in the public sector could be done at a different place at a cheaper price, at a better quality. What you decide, we are confident that local elected ones will clarify locally. This is the framework that we set target figures for the same way that we also set targets for other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115450	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115452	I am well aware of what the government's proposal is and that is what I am asking. Why does the government want to decide when to put out competition? It costs money and resources to make tenders. It costs money and resources to go through tenders. It can change areas to market them in that way, to describe them in detail. It can destroy relationships that have been built up for a long time if one can suddenly risk losing a task again. There are a lot of concrete considerations that need to be taken into account as to whether it is at all wise to postpone competition. But the government will decide that on behalf of municipalities and regions. And I still don't understand why that decision should be made here and not locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115537	The questioner doesn't reflect on what I'm saying. Because I am saying that it is local, you decide what you want, on the basis of the offers you get. But you get it... They get it... No, the rapporteur gets it • We're about to have lunch, President • Sounds as if in here they're being asked to implement a certain solution. That's not what the government is up to. We just want target figures, so that we have to ask about the price, for the sake of the taxpayers' economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115618	Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115621	Thank you. Apart from ideology, what I understand from the rapporteur is that the rapporteur considers to be very important, I wonder whether the rapporteur will try to be more precise about whether there are areas which are not suitable for outsourcing and, above all, whether there are areas of expertise or, for that matter, parts of the country where targets would simply not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115649	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115650	Yes, in relation to areas and subjects, it is clear that there are some core welfare areas where you cannot make clean tenders. Then there may be areas where you do it, but not as a general exercise. That is why I could well imagine being sharper on what subjects and areas are concerned and also looking at the regional and local differences both geographically and in terms of population density and the size of the municipalities. So yes, there is no solution that can suit all 98 municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115733	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115736	However, if all 98 municipalities are asked to make invitations to tender, in other words to try out the price for competition to see if you can get more for the same money, then it is, as the previous one asks, a use of money and time that might prove completely meaningless. That is why I mentioned Læsøsfærgen, which is a very good example of a municipality having made expensive, expensive offers year after year for no use in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115814	Thank you. However, the questioner makes it sound as if in the run-up to the government there are absolutely uniform standards for all municipalities, from Læsø Municipality to larger municipalities. That's not what's in the game. Now we are awaiting the government, and I have then expressed a position that we should have a differentiated approach to it. So the questioner starts by stating something that the questioner thinks is fact and then wonders why you have that position. However, the facts on which the question was based are not necessarily in line with what the government is presenting. I have then expressed the position of the Left, namely that it is viewed in a differentiated way in relation to municipal differences and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115856	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115859	The rapporteur from the Left talks about the fact that there is nothing wrong with the fact that it is a legislative proposal that is being adopted here in the Folketing. If you heard what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said just now, you could hear that it was the opposite. It was precisely that it was a clear condition on the part of the Danish People's Party that this should be something that was agreed with the municipalities. It wasn't supposed to be something that was promised here from Christiansborg. Is it the view of the Left that the statement in the government's constitution that mandatory targets should be introduced should be understood as a law or as an agreement to which the KL can say 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123115959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120000	I'm sorry, I'm saying it's a mess. For there are plenty of examples that agreements require a change of law in order to be implemented. The latest law on target numbers in this field came into being on the basis of an agreement between KL and the then government, and the agreement was transposed into legislation. So the way to ask questions, that is to say, as if there is a difference between an agreement and a change of law, does not hold, because often agreements are something that in their execution requires a change of law. In fact, we have dealt with two proposals today, which are a direct consequence of agreements between municipalities and governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120045	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120048	That's funny. That's funny. That was a completely false contradiction put forward in the so-called answer that came here. The question is: Is it something that Dansk Folkeparti had as a requirement that I have heard their demands that it should be made as an agreement with KL, where KL could say yes or no? I agree that this can then be translated into a law. You have to find out according to the agreement. That's not what's at the heart of this. The rapporteur knows that, I think he does. At least you should hope he knew that. So the question is: is this something that you want to put up as an agreement where KL can say yes or no, or is this something that you want to introduce through a law? That is, of course, the key issue. That a law can come after a possible agreement, the rapporteur knows that is not what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120140	The questioner made it sound like there was a difference between an agreement and legislation. Those weren't fake tricks I came with. I brought the facts to the questioner, who tried to create a false contradiction which, frankly, I do not think is worthy of the debate. Because the questioner should know that there is a difference between agreement and legislation, but that agreements in a number of cases require legislation. Then the questioner asks about the relationship of the National Association of Municipalities with this. It has to be seen in the ensuing process of the government's proposals for this. In fact, I am quite convinced that the municipalities will take a positive view of the fact that quality and price are being checked in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123120228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll take a break till 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130002	The sitting is resumed. We are in the course of the debate on Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 3, request to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior for mandatory targets for competition expulsions in municipalities and regions, by Stine Brix, Enhesdlisten, etc. In the rapporteur's line, we have reached Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130032	Thank you for the debate, which has been raised by the Enhedslisten, and thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who started by stating that this is not an ideological debate but a debate on common sense in the municipalities. Nevertheless, I think I remember statements that capital funds would starve welfare and send money to tax havens or something like that, and we will unfortunately have an ideological discussion. I think that if the government is to set aside and implement some kind of government regime in this area, it would be very sensible to proceed lightly and to have respect for local self-government and, above all, to have the focus that politicians out there might benefit from a small positive pouf if they are faced with powerful officials who may not, in different contexts, have the greatest interest in getting the price and quality tested. It is certainly my experience from the municipalities that when these procurement processes are set in motion, one can easily experience a certain amount of inertia or reluctance, if one wishes, and problematization of how difficult it is to offer the individual task. There may be help, I think, for many politicians, to get a regime set up so that they are, like, forced to discuss these things in relation to some target numbers. That is not to say, as has been said several times in here, that we are going down to detail what the individual municipality should do and should not do. There is nothing further away from the main view of the Liberal Alliance as to how to deal with local self-government. So it is a balancing factor between saying that it is really important that we get the price and quality tested in a market. It is only there that you can get the correct picture and that it needs to be done in a lenient way. That is why it is also good that we take the debate here before the government comes up with the precise proposals. It must, for me, be done in such a gentle way that it is primarily about us having visibility on it. For it is a huge strain to go from 20% to 50%. There's a huge buckle. In fact, I see this as the most important thing in terms of gaining visibility on which municipalities are doing well and who is doing less well. And then I think it would be a shame if it were to have an ideological effect. There is really no reason for that, because it is really just common sense. As has also been said from the platform: any private person who has to have a new garage, or whatever, will send things out to tender and see where you get the best and cheapest. That is basically what has made Western societies the richest in the world. It is, of course, that you dare to go out and talk about price and quality in relation to a private market, rather than allowing a monopoly to determine everything. So we welcome the fact that the government is making some gentle proposals in this area. I am sure that will be in the interests of the municipalities which are at the bottom of the coin.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130433	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are some brief comments, sir. rapporteur, so you have to stick to the platform. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130444	With respect for the fact that the rapporteur, I know, has plenty to do these days, I would nevertheless like to make a comment to the rapporteur. As the rapporteur said, it was very ideological and I assume that it was a reference to me when I said that there were welfare groups in this country that took advantage of tax havens. But that is a well-known fact. It is there in Denmark, and we also know them from Sweden and Norway. But they also exist in Denmark. There are companies here in Denmark that have operated welfare in elderly care but have not paid tax for 20 years, and it is known that their parent companies also have a company in tax havens. So it's a fact, and it's part of this debate that there are private companies that provide welfare that also use tax havens. One of the things the rapporteur said was that it was very important that there was visibility. But this isn't about visibility. There's plenty of research on it. For example: The Competition Authority makes an inventory of the percentage of competition that is being put forward. So this isn't about visibility. This is about the government wanting to decide, forcing the municipalities to how much they have to compete. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to deal with what is actually the content here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130603	It's true that there's a lot of analysis of these things. But now I am a member of the council of the city, and I can guarantee that there is a difference between whether to take a position once a year on exactly this discussion about how much has now been achieved in various areas of competition exposure, and then knowing that there is some report in the Competition Authority that you can find yourself somewhere. Visibility to me is primarily visibility to decision-makers, and there I think it is a good thing that one way or another we ensure a regime or a form of organisation so that politicians have to take a stand on it on an ongoing basis, and for example. Says: Okay, we're only putting off 20%. of our portfolio, while others offer 50%. It might have given rise to a discussion because of that visibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130656	But it is simply not a proper interpretation of what the rapporteur is doing here. It is not, of course, a question of simply making it visible how much competition is going on. What the government has stated quite clearly in the government base that you want is that you want to decide how much competition needs to be postponed. You want to set a fixed target number. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has said in the past that it should be at least as in the past, that is. About 33 percent. So this is an important boost, compared to what the level is today, which means that it is not just about visibility. It is about the government deciding, and in this context I really think that the rapporteur's choice of words about a regime is very precise. Because it's about the government from here laying down a regime... the government's position... down all municipalities, no matter what attitude exists in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130743	I think that is a very bombastic way of interpreting the statement made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. It is precisely not given in advance how to do it. It has also been mentioned several times from up here I think it was from the Danish People's Party that it is incredibly central to get KL with. So this picture that's being drawn, that you're sitting in here with a sledgehammer and knocking down in the municipalities and saying that now they're going to have something very definite, isn't the way we think about it. For it is clear that there is a dilemma in how much and how little it should be. It has to be gentle I think I used that word and for me the most important thing is that politicians say with open eyes: now we know that there are a lot of areas we do not let competition put off. It is really important for me to have that discussion, and that is what you will get when there are some targets on the town councils tables.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130828	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130830	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it is always common sense to carry out the tasks of competition and mentions a garage in this regard. If I'm going to build a garage, I'd prefer it to be for someone who knows how to build garages, not a mechanic, even though they're both craftsmen, for example. offers the task. And a number of tasks in the public sector are precisely characterised by the fact that the public sector is the ones who have knowledge of the area. Brain damage is a very good example, and although some might think that there can be not many legs in it, I still have to ask the rapporteur something: are there not areas where it would be completely foolish to put it out of practice, because in the private sector there is no knowledge of precisely these tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130914	Yeah, no doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130919	It would be nice if the rapporteur would enrich us with some examples of what it could be, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123130928	Now we are at an initial stage where the government is working on how to do it and how to do it and how exactly to do it. I started by saying that this is more a discussion of common sense than a discussion of ideology. And I am quite convinced that if this is an area in which there is virtually no expertise in the private sector, the government could never dream of making special demands that a private person should be found in that area. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131001	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131007	Thank you very much. I do not think that in the alternative we will ever be supporting targets for the execution of public tasks. I think it's really, really nice that Enhedslisten now focuses on it in such a query debate here, where we're all trying to learn a little bit more about what's coming and what's happening and what's status is. I recognise, of course, that it is not directly a matter of privatisation alone, because it is not only private individuals who can offer these things that are apparently to be forced to be offered. This at least forces the public authorities to carry out a number of tasks in this way, it must be understood when it is a target figure and here we are of the opinion that the municipalities should do exactly as the municipalities themselves think. It is not only because there are a number of stories that private companies have not been able to carry out the task properly, but also because I think I lack evidence, I lack research, I lack evidence that the part of what will be privatised is better than the public task solution. That is why we are also listening to KL's own chairman from the Left, Martin Damm, who is opposed to this. In the alternative, we have enormous confidence that the municipalities can work out how to solve their own tasks and make their own choices. We think this debate is fine and something is obviously on the way. It is difficult to know what it is, but now the alternative, which is a new party, is at least very well updated on the agenda now and in the debate that is in the Folketing about it. Some of the things I think have been interesting I think it was DF's rapporteur who mentioned it was about meaning, so that it should not become meaningless that we should not experience loss of opinion. And that is one of the parameters that I will certainly keep the government up to when these proposals come up, so what about the meaning, what becomes of the meaning? We're coming, for example. to experience situations where municipalities must at least it is a parameter that the alternative has in the further negotiations. But thanks to Enhedslisten for raising this, and thanks to everyone for providing good information.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131237	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131242	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur from me. I would like to be informed about and get a sense of where the alternative is actually on the question of the solution of welfare tasks. Is the alternative against the use of non-public services, even if it is a public obligation, and against the outsourcing of such services? Could it be imagined in the area of employment or other areas that it was not public that solved the tasks? And is the alternative opposed in principle? Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with me that it is not fair to call it privatisations when it is clearly a matter of outsourcing; that it is therefore still a public obligation, but provided by some others. Does the rapporteur agree with me that this is not a fair political rhetoric?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131345	Yes, sir, I agree with the latter. Carl Holst in. You can't look at it that narrowly. As to whether we are completely opposed to any kind of outsourcing, the answer is no. After all, there are plenty of situations where private people go in and solve tasks well, or civil society organisations can solve them well. If you had to be a little bit visionary and it's not really to start a new debate it could be exciting to see who else could bid. How could civil society organisations and not-for-profit organisations be more likely to take on some of these tasks and carry out some of these tasks? I have enormous faith that not for profit organisations can get in and solve tasks in Denmark in the right way, they do not yet solve, and with a very high quality. So when I think a little visionary, maybe that's the way I think it might be exciting to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131449	I think it is fine and good that the rapporteur is a visionary, and I think it is appropriate to ask: who else would it be? Perhaps it is there that, to find out who else it could be, you could have the approach of asking and taking a call for tenders. So this may not be as far between what the government is proposing and what the rapporteur has pointed out. And then I very much agree with the rapporteur that we must, of course, safeguard local self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131527	In the middle of this lovely agreement, there are also some differences. Yes, you may ask, but if it is forced through, I think it is to compromise with the autonomy of the municipalities. That is where I think it is all too easy to create meaninglessness.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131548	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and move forward, and then it is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131555	On Tuesday, a lot of people were elected to take care of their communities in a municipality or region. In the Radical Left, we would like to allow those people to do just that with the citizens of municipalities and regions. We are a party that wants citizens to be involved in the decisions that have to be taken on their own everyday lives, and we believe that they will best be through municipalities and regions where they decide as close to the citizens as possible, and do not know that we sit here in the Folketing and decide everything. In the Radical Left we see both the pros and cons of supply. For us, the most important thing is that the individual municipality or region has discussed why and how to tender, what the purpose of a tender is and what the requirements are in terms of innovation, agreement or whatever it may be. As far as we are concerned, compulsory tendering, which we are adopting here in the Folketing, does not make sense. Bad and ill-thought-out offers can come out of this. We would therefore like to leave it up to the individual municipality or region to decide. Citizens have just elected their representatives to municipalities and regions. Let us now let the new and old elected representatives decide what to do in their local area, even when it comes to tenders. By its very nature, we support the text that we ourselves have been involved in presenting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131739	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123131750	Thank you. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for focusing on this theme, which I myself think is really, really important. I think that, in relation to the issue of mandatory targets for outsourcing, I am thinking: been there, done that • it is absolutely right that there is the possibility of looking at it with an ideological approach, i.e. whether it is best now that things are resolved in public or in private or at least being exposed to competition. I also respect the fact that we can disagree on what really works best. But you can also choose a democratic approach and just have respect for local democracy and self-government and prefer it to more and more centralisation, where we sit in here and decide what is best now and how the municipalities should now deal with the various tasks. The Minister says in his answer that increased competition is just a small piece in terms of ensuring a healthy economy. We in the SF do not necessarily believe this to be true. In fact, there are a great many examples out there that show the opposite. I am just mentioning the very many bankruptcies in the area of the elderly as an example. There are also a great many examples of bureaucracy in relation to outsourcing. It is not the case that it doesn't matter whether you let one or the other do a job. In other words, it is the craftsman who is set to do a job in relation to a garage mentioned by a rapporteur that the mistake can be corrected in the worst case, but if it is people who are exposed to errors, then it may prove fatal. The Minister also says that the quality is important and that the level of service might in fact be benefitted by the choice of more outsourcing and competition deferrals, a little on the basis of the idea that you might be able to get more for the money. But I would like to question the validity of the claim. Let us just take an example from the care of the elderly: it is very difficult to imagine that a company that has to offer the job in the care of the elderly in relation to the standards that may be there says: We would also like to offer the citizens something more cleaning or perhaps a bath more a week, and we would do so at the same price. So, I think that most municipalities would say that this was not what they asked for and that they really wanted to have a price for what they had asked for to be solved, otherwise it would probably be too expensive from the outset. So the quality standards are, in the end, just what you get, also a little on the basis of the idea that nobody imagines that there is any company that offers the tasks, for example, in the care of the elderly and says: We can make it very much cheaper, but we do it with the sister's hand. This is not the way the invitations to tender are already being conducted. Companies say we can do what you're asking us to do, and we can do it at a certain price, but it's actually hard to check if it's gonna keep in real life before you try it out. Free choice of rehabilitation is one of the themes on the agenda of the government. At 7 days of waiting and above, you should be able to seek your own help in the rehabilitation of brain damage. But we already have a very qualified offer for brain damage rehabilitation. The Danish Health Authority has drawn up a special plan to ensure that we train exactly the necessary staff and give them the opportunity to become specialists. If one imagines that citizens should be able to get their rehabilitation elsewhere, then it is also suggested that these special, specialised skills should be spread beyond perhaps random offers. And in which organization do we prefer to be treated: where we know that they have every day experience in solving a given task in a certain way that ensures that we get well again, or with lucky knights who may just want to and think that there can be not so many legs in it with rehabilitation? But let me end with one more small example from reality. In Aarhus, technical service workers were at one point on hand, even when it was the case that a doorstep had to be removed to ensure accessibility for a citizen who had become disabled. This was done when the time came and with the flexibility that could now be in it, when it was now the case that there were a number of tasks that had to be solved in one day and which, moreover, varied from day to day. However, when it was decided that such tasks should also be carried out in competition, it was necessary instead to obtain up to three artisans. It takes a very long time to obtain the offers, it takes a long time to assess the offers, but what was really most important: The price was certainly also then. So thank you again for the debate. I think this is an important debate and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss these proposals in depth before any decision is taken on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132314	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132318	Thank you to the rapporteur. I took note of the rapporteur's remark that we need a democratic approach to this. It can also be democratically understood that this is a question of the individual citizen of democracy, namely the citizen, and the safeguarding of the citizen's free choice, referring to the 2013 resolution of the then Social Democratic government, supported by the SF and the Enhedslisten, which reduced precisely in relation to the demand for the number of providers of nursing homes. One saved 132 million. kr. And the Left and other good parties were against, because they were just saying that the consequence of this was that it was now the price that was crucial, not the quality. May I ask the rapporteur to take a look at this so that it can be democratic for the citizen and not just democracy for the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132424	However, as I said at the outset, this is a question of attitudes. I mean, it's an ideological issue too. However, when everyone here from the platform appeals to common sense, I think it is also important that we have a thorough discussion with each other about who is actually able to make the right decision with regard to the individual citizen. Sir. Carl Holst mentions the care area, and there I just remind you that there have been really, very many insanely expensive bankruptcies. It has cost the municipalities a great deal of money to have these many, many different bankruptcies in all sorts of different forms and sometimes at the risk of supplying the elderly with staff that they did not actually have, calling people on overtime and what else they did with them. I still believe away when we look at the bourgeois welfare that it is the municipalities that are best able to assess what the need is • whether it is in Ringkøbing, or whether it is in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132529	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132530	The last comment is quite irrelevant, because the issue is not about deciding, but about taking the side of the citizen and ensuring that the citizen is given greater freedom of choice, because we believe that the citizen and not a system are the best at assessing what is best for the citizen, whether it be a state system or a municipal system. But the rapporteur did not answer my question. Does the rapporteur acknowledge that we are not only judging by opinions but also by actions ■ that the rapporteur's party helped save the 132 million? kr., what exactly helped to focus on economics, what helped us not look at quality, and was precisely the reason why we among other things. So some very unfortunate bankruptcies in the nursing home area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132625	I recognise that it will often be the case that when you make targets for tenders or decide that tenders are the right way to solve things, you typically do so for economic reasons and very, very rarely for quality reasons. I just think that now we've gained a lot of experience... been there, done that... and now we can see that the smartest decision is really to choose to do the job as close to the citizen as possible, and that it is the elected representatives who are there who also best know what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132700	We thank the rapporteur. And since the Left has also spoken on behalf of the Conservatives, we have now reached the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, who is being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132716	Yes, I thought I would take the floor again, even though it is really the Enhedslisten's debate and not my debate. I have answered once, you might say, but since you cannot answer questions in the first round, I thought it was natural to go up on the platform again. We have had a question debate today: what can the Minister say about the government's plans for mandatory targets for competition for municipalities and regions, according to the government's basis? The questioners were a little disgruntled... that is how I see it... not getting a clear answer to that question. And that is because the answer to that question is that this proposal will come in the new year. That is the answer to the question, which is why it is difficult to tell what it will be, as it is not finally designed yet. That's one thing. The next thing is that what we are saying is that once upon a time there were mandatory targets agreed between the VK government and the National Association of Municipalities, and it says in the government base that we will work on that again, but I have stressed today that it is not certain that it will be the same as it was under the then government. These are some of the considerations we have, and I would therefore also like to thank you for the many contributions that have been made across parties on the ideas you have on this area. For one thing, you can be against the government's basic idea, but if it does happen anyway, you can still have good ideas on how to do it. So I think it has been very useful to hear the many different speeches. Then, of course, I am glad that the government and the Danish People's Party have been able to come together for a proposal for adoption, which respects the importance of putting out competition, and I very much appreciate that. But I am standing here and, above all, because I think it would be most reasonable that there should also be an opportunity to ask questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132950	There are a few who make use of that, and the first is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123132955	Thank you for that and thank you for making yourself available to the Minister. After all, I have also read the proposal for adoption by the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, and what I am aware of is what does not say, after all, is that the Folketing agrees that it is a good idea to introduce mandatory targets. And I also think that, in the light of the debate we have had today, it is highly uncertain whether there really is a majority in favour of it. So I would like to hear the Minister's reflection: does the Minister hear the same as I do, that is, that there is in fact not a majority in this Parliament to force municipalities and regions to put a certain proportion of competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133040	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for his concern for the opportunities of the government. I hope I can take advantage of that on other occasions. In the light of the specific situation, I see that there is a majority in the Folketing awaiting the government's proposal. There are different views on that. I noticed that it was said that no right of veto is given to the KL. I very much appreciate that answer. That is why we are continuing our work and engaging in dialogue with the parties or parties that will be interested in talking to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133115	Thank you. The asker again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133119	In any case, I would say from here that I see a good opportunity for a stick to be put in the wheel for the ambitions of the government base to force the municipalities to put more competition ahead. I also think there are some good opportunities for a new KL management to avoid this being the scenario, and I personally think that will be very, very welcome. Because I think it would be really crazy to postpone, outsource and privatise more than we already do. But most importantly, I find it incredibly difficult to understand why it has become the position of the government, and especially the Liberal Alliance, that it is something that is best decided in here. So let this be my last question to the Minister: why is it actually at all that the Minister believes that the government and the Folketing should decide how much competition should be put out in municipalities and regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133217	I think it is important to stress that we believe that the concrete decision should still be taken locally. Then it is the case that at the time we were involved in abolishing the authorisation law, and we were, because at that time it seemed to be in a good state of affairs. It has then turned out that without the authority law and without a continued agreement with the KL it has been difficult to keep pace, and we must then deal with that. Because we believe that competition is a good thing, because exposure to competition has the effect of making the best use of citizens' money. And what this is all about for politicians is two things all the time: 1) ensuring that a proper service is provided to citizens when they are recipients of services, and 2) ensuring that no more taxes are levied than it should, in relation to the costs that are and the service to be provided. The two things, then, are what we want to spend the money on and that we use it as wisely as possible. And that is why we are concerned about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133334	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133337	Thank you. This is a follow-up to the last question. It is, of course, because when we removed the ministerial power to make these demands for compulsory tendering, we saw that the Minister's own party, the Liberal Alliance, voted in favour of that removal, to my great pleasure. And the argument was then that what I am looking at here is the rapporteur's speech by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, who, incidentally, sits in the chair today, said that a greater municipal freedom would be achieved if it were to be abandoned here; that is why we voted in favour. Is it still the basic position of the Liberal Alliance that that freedom is more important than the ideological compulsion element?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133424	We believe that there is always a liberal dilemma in relation to the economy of the municipalities. There is almost a built-in liberal dilemma. There is the dilemma that, on the one hand, we want to decentralise as much as possible. Of course we are very close and, on the other hand, we have to say that if you look at the economy of the municipalities of the 00s, you have to be careful that things are not so well managed that it has devastating effects on the general economy. And that is a liberal dilemma. I fully acknowledge that, and I take a position on that. Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Magnus Heunicke notes that the Liberal Alliance can become wiser in relation to some issues I appreciate very much. I have also noticed that this is also the case for the Social Democratic Party. So, if we look at what was thought about economic policy before the 2011 elections, what was meant after the 2011 elections and what you mean after the 2015 elections, then that is quite a labyrinthian analysis we need to go through. But, of course, I assume that the Social Democrats think they have become wiser. I then believe that the Social Democracy was the wisest between 2011 and 2015 and not so much before and after • but it is then up to the individual party and then to the voters to decide whether it is the wise thing they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133540	The idea of questions and answers is actually to get smarter, so you're on the right track. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133547	Yeah, we're trying to do what we can. And, of course, it is a liberal dilemma, as the Minister says, it is obvious that when you look at it from a liberal politician's point of view, when you give free rein to those who are responsible for the citizens' close welfare, close to the citizens, there is a great desire for that welfare also to have a good quality, close to the citizens. I also think that the election results the day before yesterday talk about its very clear language. But we should not, I think, go into such an ideological blind spot for the analyses that I have, as I see it, show that the gains or savings that the Minister has made in the procurement of public sectors in recent years have waned to almost nothing; this shows the latest research studies. Does the Minister have any research evidence to support his claim that there are considerable savings to be made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133644	At any rate, I am incredibly pleased and agree with the questioner that we are not going into ideological blinding, as was said. That is why the government is reaching out to a broad majority in the Folketing by saying: let us not discuss whether everything should be public or whether everything should be private. This is why competition exposure is the broad middle road where there is the possibility that private actors and public players can bid for the benefit of citizens, in other words to get the best solutions for the least possible tax dollars. So let's get out of the ideological blind drive and there's room for more in the middle track if Mr. Magnus Heunicke should be interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133723	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133726	Thank you. After all, the Minister reiterates that the increased exposure to competition takes place in order to ensure a healthy economy and stresses that citizens' money must be spent in the best possible way. I would like to say that the latter is entirely in agreement with the SF. We don't really want to spend a single penny more than we have to. But it is for the same reason that we are on our toes in relation to this proposal, because we actually believe that it risks being really, really expensive to make, for example, targets for outsourcing. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he recognises that many, many bankruptcies, for example in the area of the elderly, have resulted in very high additional costs for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133814	I recognise that after changing the legislation of the SRSF government, there is increasing bankruptcy in the care of the elderly. I recognize that. I recognise that this government, in cooperation with all parties of the Folketing, has concluded an agreement to ensure that there are fewer bankruptcies in the care of the elderly. Because it had become too much because you had not remembered that you have to keep an eye on both when you put out competition, namely both quality and price. The point is, of course, that you must get the highest possible quality at the lowest possible price, but I think some people had forgotten the first part of the sentence, and therefore you did not get the good offers in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133904	I can be in doubt whether it is actually just because you have forgotten the quality or whether it is because it is actually really hard to make money on a task for which there is already too little money. Could it be imagined that the government would take this debate seriously and try to do some research into what it actually cost in bureaucracy and at unintended extra costs to make these offers? Because there are very high derived costs involved in making outsourcing solely for the sake of price.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123133948	The government is taking this debate seriously. That is why I welcome the fact that the Enhedslisten has put it on today's agenda. That is why I welcome the fact that we have written something about it in the government base. That is why I welcome the proposal for adoption for which there is a majority here today. That is why I welcome the fact that there are plenty of examples from municipalities that it works. Are there also examples that it does not work? Yes, there is. But then we have to learn from the best examples instead of always dwelling on the worst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134020	Then we thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. There are no more brief comments, and it is not the Minister who will have the last word. It is the questioners of Mrs Stine Brix, the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134032	Thank you for today and thank all the rapporteurs and, above all, the Minister for taking part in the debate. After all, we have today discussed the government's plans to introduce what has been called in the government's constitution mandatory target values for exposure to competition in municipalities and regions. Just a little friendly remark: I think it is thought-provoking that the government in that section of the government base is having difficulty spelling the word community, because there is actually a lack of a community. It might well be a symbol of where the heart of the government lies in this matter, because it seems to me that this is very much an ideological maneuver, where it is about more of what is currently being run by the public authorities with the aim of solving our welfare tasks, schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly, being pushed over to private people. If it is pushed over to the private sector, it will mean that the primary purpose will be to be able to make money from it. And today's debate has certainly made it clear that it is still the government's intention to use this constraint on municipalities and regions to put more competition on hold. On the other hand, I think it is positive that we in the Enhedslisten agree with the Social Democracy, the SF, the Alternative and the Radical Left that this is the wrong way to go and that instead it is far, far better that it is a decision that can be taken locally in the many new city councils and regional councils that have just been elected. As far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, I have to say that it is a little more unclear for me what is really meant. This is bad, because if the Danish People's Party had signed out clearly, then perhaps we could have put this idea in the grave today. On the other hand, of course, it is also positive that there are still some possibilities to prevent this constraint on competition from becoming a reality. Then we hear from the right-wing rapporteurs time and again that this is no ideology at all, that it is just common sense. You could say that a lot of times, but it just doesn't make it any more true. Competition deferral is ideology. It is an approach to the public sector, based on the wisdom of using market mechanisms, of seeing the public sector as a market in which one can produce one's goods, which can be compared by price, and which one can then just choose wisely. However, the marketing of the public sector is a major problem. This is one of the reasons why we have seen an increased tendency to count minutes in care for the elderly and home care. This leads to bureaucracy in the municipalities, which is about to make large chrome-plated tenders, where you have to describe in detail what the task is and where, moreover, you also have to have a large control apparatus to follow up on whether that is also what is being delivered. Finally, there is the very, very important discussion that when you put out competition, yes, there will also be more private people entering the market, and then we will have the fundamental change in our public sector that the primary purpose of providing welfare services is not to provide welfare but to earn money. We do not think that thinking and this mechanism should be what governs our welfare. And that is why it is an ideological discussion. Not least for this reason, I think it is so important that we do not from here decide on the municipalities or force them to do so, but that we also leave the discussions and differences of opinion on how best to develop our public sector to the many people who have been elected to the task. For exactly the same discussions that we have in here also exist in Slagelse City Council, in Frederiksværk, in Frederikshavn or anywhere, where there are different views about what provides the best care for the elderly or the best kindergarten locally. Let that be my final word, and I would just like to thank you once again for the debate. I am absolutely certain that this is not the last time we discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134437	It seems that it is now very difficult to get the last word on this matter, because Mr. Carl Holst, Left, has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134446	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for having raised the debate. After all, we have each had our own starting point, the rapporteur has said one thing, and others have said another. I am listening to what the rapporteur says, but I would actually ask the rapporteur not to tell the House what we really think. Listen to what we say. For us, it is a matter of common sense. For us, it is a matter of citizens having free choice. For us, it is a question of ensuring welfare, but also of doing so on the basis of the citizens' claim that the service is in order. My question to the rapporteur is: was it a mistake when, in 2013, the rapporteur's party helped to change the rules in relation to the number of providers in the care sector, where the rapporteur's party helped to vote in favour of saving 132 million? kr., and where the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party said: "We are against this, because it will mean that it is savings and not quality that are pursued by tender?" Was this a mistake made by the rapporteur's party at the time and which is now being corrected by a joint agreement to avoid bankruptcy in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134605	No, it was certainly not a mistake, but there is no doubt that our attitude towards privatisation and outsourcing in the care of the elderly goes much further than that. Our position is • and it is, in fact, entirely in line with what I have said in the debate that it is not for the Danish Parliament to decide that the municipalities should involve private suppliers. That coercion is in the law today. It was also introduced by the Left, I think it was back in 2003 and we want to repeal it. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this which was discussed in the Folketing this spring. And we want that to continue. However, the amendment made by the law in 2013 is fully in line with our goal, because we think it contained a number of improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134655	I am simply silently referring to the report from the draft law in question, which says that the bourgeois parties are puzzled by the release of the 132 million. kr. for citizen-friendly service that you would save. It was against the bourgeois parties because it would mean that the money would not necessarily be used for initiatives to improve older citizens. Quality would continue to exist rather than the fact that it was essential to save money. That is what the bourgeois parties in writing and action have stood for. That is common sense and not ideology. I believe that the rapporteur's approach is different, that it is precisely: bad about quality, bad about money, as long as it is public.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134747	It's just that we have a lot of disagreements. It can be said that when private companies go in and run care for the elderly, as we see today, there are two things involved. One is that money must be made, and that is unlike the public sector. You have to draw some money to your owners or shareholders or whatever you have. The second is • and we have seen this in rich measure • that it involves the risk of bankruptcy with insecurity and additional costs, and that is why we think it is a bad idea to leave core welfare to private companies. We have been aiming for this since the Left started to privatise or outsource older people in 2003, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134828	That then became the last word and thus thanks to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Two proposals have been submitted for adoption and, as I said earlier, they will be put to the vote on Tuesday, 28 November 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134849	We begin with the rapporteur's line of work, and the first is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123134912	Thank you, President. Climate change has led to more extreme weather, and it only gets worse in the years to come. Nearly 1 million Danes live near Danish coasts, where the risk of extreme weather affecting your home is high. It goes without saying that it is terrible for those who destroy their homes when the storm is raging, and at the same time it puts pressure on the economy and challenges the municipalities, among other things. in relation to prevention and safety, but also in relation to handling when the accident is out. That is why we need to take this area very seriously, and that requires, among other things, that. a more ambitious coastal protection than the one we have today. In the Social Democratic Party we continue to believe that coastal protection must be the responsibility of the municipalities in close cooperation with the residents, but the task is so important and so great that the state has to take more responsibility. That is why we recently proposed the creation of a national coastal protection fund with a national coastal protection plan. The fund can then help finance coastal protection efforts where it makes socio-economic sense. But, of course, there are other gripes that can be taken, and it is certainly good sense for the government to set up an inter-ministerial committee earlier this year to look at the consequences of the violent weather created by climate change. The proposal that we are now considering is based on the government's committees. The bill contains three initiatives to prevent damage caused by flooding and erosion. The first is that municipalities must identify areas that may be subject to flooding and erosion due to climate change, and this must be stated in the municipal plans. Secondly, if urban development is planned in the designated areas, the municipalities must ensure that preventive measures are put in place. Thirdly, the municipal council must be able to derogate from the requirement for a local plan if a coastal protection project is to be set up in specific situations. We support the intention that municipalities should have an overview of the next critical or vulnerable areas in terms of flooding and erosion, and there is reason to ensure prevention measures if new construction is planned as a municipality in areas identified by the municipality itself as critical to flooding. However, we have a number of issues that we would like to see drilled out and clarified in the proposal. That is where the proposal seems imprecise and where it is therefore difficult to assess the scope of the proposal. For example, the proposal that the municipal council should be able to derogate from the requirement for a local plan. Here it is rather unclear when there are special circumstances, as it says, when something is so extreme that the requirement for a local plan can be waived. Or what does "significantly negative " mean? That is also unclear in the proposal. We need to clarify this in committee before we can assess our position on this. We are aware that legislation requires us to strike a balance between citizens' legal certainty in order to respond to consultation in local planning cases and the need to act relatively quickly with coastal protection measures. For example: the farce from Roskilde with Roskilde Fjord clearly shows that objections to the process have slowed down an absolutely necessary coastal protection. In addition, there are a number of critical comments in the consultation responses which do not appear to be adequately answered in the consultation note. Among other things: there is the question of who is to finance the establishment of counter-measures and the question of who is to settle disputes between two municipalities that cannot agree. We look forward to discussing this with the Minister in committee and then we will take a final position once these uncertainties have been clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135307	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135312	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. I would say that in the Enhedslisten we were very happy on 31 October when Mrs Mette Frederiksen announced that we agreed with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative's proposal that we should have national coordination and we should have a national coastal fund. This is, of course, in very sharp contradiction with what the government is doing in this draft law and with what we know is coming after, namely that the municipalities are given the freedom of method, so that we leave it to the municipalities to take care of this climate protection, coastal protection. So I think it is important that we take a position: do we go with the strategy that appears to be agreed on in the red bloc, or do we support the government's strategy, which is exactly the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135404	We think that things should be balanced. Of course, the municipalities must fulfil a task of explaining the challenges they face locally, and they must, together with the citizens, focus on how to prevent them locally, but that is such a big task, and that is why I stress in my rapporteur's speech that we are playing out quite frankly that we need to have more national initiatives on the ground here, and that is what we are doing, among other things. on the economy of it. And then it is also about what I was trying to say in my rapporteur's speech, namely that where the municipal border is drawn, there may well be some coastal protection tasks which must also be resolved. Therefore, I do not think it should be said that it is either one side or the other that should be responsible for solving this. In fact, I believe that at all levels we must involve all the good efforts to solve this problem of coastal protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135457	But I do not think that is contrary to what we are in fact in common to propose, because there was the proposal precisely that the municipalities should be closely involved in the national priorities; that is what is at the heart of our proposal. We risk creating the Wild West where the municipalities will compete against each other, because what happens if a municipality coast-proofs is that it sends the water to its neighbours, and that is the big problem here, and that is why our common approach to it is so much stronger. So I really hope that the Socialists will reject this proposal and that instead we can work together to create a much better, coordinated and far more sustainable climate protection for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135542	I think that we need to get back on the track we were on, under the previous government, which had, of course, put some ambitious things in the sea in this area, and I have an expectation of that too, because hopefully, after the forthcoming parliamentary elections, there should be a majority in favour of us going further along that line. However, if this is the case, in 2017 we can now start starting some of the things and get them sorted out, among other things. with this bill and that, at the same time, we may also be able to reject some of the things in this bill that are not good enough, we might be able to propose a split of the bill when we have to go further so that we can decide on the individual parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135620	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135629	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I regret that our rapporteur could not be here today, but she is concerned with a great deal more. There's just been municipal elections and stuff like that. But that should not prevent us from putting forward our views on L 86. I've had the pleasure of doing that. This bill is designed to prevent flooding or erosion. In future, municipalities must identify areas which, due to climate change, may be subject to flooding and erosion in their municipal plans. For example, we have had cloudbreaks, heavy storms and more often storms, and when things go wrong a combination of them all. Municipalities must ensure that preventive measures are put in place if urban development is to be planned in the designated areas. Finally, it is proposed that the municipal council should be given the opportunity not to draw up a local plan for the establishment of coastal protection if it significantly delays coastal protection and if there are special circumstances which make a delay a negative effect. The Act shall enter into force on 1 February 2018. In the Danish People's Party, we are in favour of the proposal and the agreement itself, which the government has made with KL. We have seen far too many examples of citizens refusing to provide coastal protection around Denmark. It is therefore also gratifying that responsibility is now being extended to the municipalities. The municipalities know their coastlines and the challenges associated with storms, clouds etc., and we in the Danish People's Party also have a clear expectation that the municipalities will manage the challenge in a much better way than they have done in the past. At the same time, we may also avoid municipalities making urban development in areas which they know are in danger of flooding because they will have to secure the areas in future. Nor can we understand that there are municipalities that continue to plan areas for housing where they repeatedly see that the areas are being flooded. It can't be that the municipality can't find anywhere else to develop than just where it's all being flooded every time. This bill is intended to help municipalities think before they make any urban development in low-lying areas that are being flooded. It will certainly cost the municipality a great deal if they continue to do so. I hope, then, that the municipalities will take this into account and say that they should look at a whole different type of urban development from the one they have had up to now. It may well be that the areas that lie down to a water area are attractive and scenic areas, but if you get the housing flooded over and over again, it may not be so natural anyway. As I said, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135929	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123135934	Thank you. It is only because I read in the Engineer that the Danish People's Party believes in principle that it should be a national task, that there should be national coordination and a national priority. This is contrary to what you are going to do with this bill, where you are going to give the municipalities freer reins to secure their own coast and, in other words, just push the problems to the neighbours. So you can choose two paths. Either you believe in national coordination, or you think it is the municipalities themselves who should be responsible for it. I just want to know more about what the Danish People's Party thinks. Is that what you can read in the media, or do you support this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140016	Of course, I do not have to say too much from up here, as it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen who is sitting with it and has the rapporteurship and certainly has spoken out in the media. But I am sure she is willing to answer the questions relating to it in committee. However, it must be said at the outset that if we are not able to make a huge effort at national level, this is, after all, a step in the right direction. I know that this is what Enhedslisten used to say, i.e. it is a step in the right direction. That is a good thing, and then you can say yes to it. However, I am sure that Mrs Pia Adelsteen is ready to answer the questions during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140054	I would like to take that up with Mrs Pia Adelsteen. I would just like to say that I very much agree that there must be absolute support for things that are moving in the right direction. The problem with this bill is that it's going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140107	I am sure you will have a talk about this in the committee work, but as I said, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the proposal, and then we will see what the committee work leads to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140126	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, it is a proposal that is about ensuring better efforts in terms of protecting people, buildings and technical installations from flooding. Basically, therefore, we need to be better at preventing the damage that we see, unfortunately, there are more, because the fluctuations in our weather have increased. Unfortunately, this has led to more floods and to greater pressure on the coasts, and of course it costs both economically, but indeed humanly, when there are citizens who are affected by this. The draft law basically imposes stricter requirements on the planning of municipalities, so that situations can be prevented and prevented, because this means specifically in the draft law that municipalities must identify areas that are at risk of flooding or erosion due to climate change, with consequent increases in rainfall, more severe storms and storm floods, and those designations must be indicated in the municipal plans. At the same time, municipalities must ensure the establishment of prevention measures if urban development is planned in the designated areas, and this basically makes very good sense, as I think the Danish People's Party rapporteur also mentioned. Of course, if you want to establish urban development or establish other things in an area at risk of flooding, you have to think about how to prevent it before you start. Furthermore, as has also been mentioned, if such a local plan would delay the project, local authorities should be able to derogate from the requirement for a local plan for a coastal protection project. The proposal translates into a series of recommendations on which an inter-ministerial committee in the Ministry of Industry has been working since February of this year, and a thorough preparatory work has therefore been carried out, to which we should of course listen, because we must, of course, be prepared for the reality of the climate, so that we limit and prevent floods and erosion of the coasts, and this proposal is one of many elements that must help to ensure that we rust our lives in the best possible way, so that floods and erosion are reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140411	I have to say that in the Enhedslisten we are very concerned about this bill, even if it contains a number of good elements. In our opinion, there has been neither due diligence in the draft law, nor has any attention been paid to the specialist staff, and here I refer in particular to the government's own coastal analysis and no general common sense has been shown either. After all, we can no longer deny that the lack of action on climate gas emissions is becoming ever more noticeable; climate change is accelerating and we see them everywhere. An immediate effect is, of course, that more violent storms, and hence more storm floods, are causing increasing pressure on our coasts, and that more and more areas are being exposed to an increasing threat of degradation and flooding, not least in urban areas, but also in relation to areas which should, as such, never have been built up. That is why the Enhedslisten, together with the Alternative, tabled a resolution a year ago that this new situation requires the state to go in and coordinate where priority should be given to coastal protection and how best to do so. It is simply because we risk a chaotic and not very well planned situation if it is up to the individual municipality alone to give priority to its own coast protection. The problem is basically that if the individual municipality simply secures its own coast, or if the individual landowner, the landowner, secures its own coast, then you push the problem to the neighbour. That is why coastal protection must take place across municipal borders, and it is important that we put in place where the need is greatest. The Social Democratic Party at the time supported the Enhedslisten's proposal for a national coastal fund and a national coastal council, but rejected our proposals for funding. We thought it was good logic for insurance companies to pay, because it is also those who save money by increasing prevention, in other words by what the coastal fund should go into financing. But we were also very open to other proposals for financing; the most important thing for us was to get started. This proposal was there a year ago, and the most important thing was that we simply started to get Denmark's coast back on track. I have also noted that in the municipal election campaign, the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has reiterated her support for the Enhedslisten's proposal, precisely that a national coastal council should be set up to oversee overall coordination and planning, precisely because overall coordination and planning are so important for this to happen in the best possible way. I am a little confused about the position of the Danish People's Party, because on the one hand here in Parliament they say over and over again that they do not think it should be national coordination, but when they talk to journalists on the other side of the castle's walls, they say the opposite. So, as I also raised the question with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, who was on the platform, I hope that we will be able to clarify it in committee because if the Danish People's Party believes what they have said and which is reproduced in the Engineer, that is to say that there is a national coordination, there is a very large majority in favour of the opposite of what is contained in the government's legislative proposal, and this is, of course, a rather curious situation. I would just like to conclude with a few specific comments on the proposal, because, as I started by saying, there are a number of positive elements which also correspond to what was originally contained in the Enhedslisten's proposal, namely that municipalities should identify the threats and draw up proposals for action. That's really good. But instead of using it as a basis for coordinated national planning and action, which we believe should be done, it should then be left to the municipalities to assess what should happen and, at the same time, to put the law of plans out of effect so that potential solutions can be implemented regardless of other interests and considerations. That is why we are making planning; that is why our planning law has played such a major role in the development of our country, so we are very concerned about that. We are very concerned that, in a few years' time, it will turn out that there has been a totally uncoordinated and chaotic effort in this area, and that we will end up introducing what we should be doing now, namely a coordinated action by the state. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140855	There is one brief comment from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123140902	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Some of the things I noticed were among other things. the situation of chaotic and uncoordinated, which the rapporteur mentioned at the end of this debate. And also the fact that if there is no overall, state, national coordination, then you just push the problems to the neighbour. Somehow the rapporteur makes it sound like that if there is no coordinating state action, one municipality drowns, while the other municipality can keep its citizens completely dry. I don't think that's how it's gonna be. I do not see that horror scenario because, fortunately, we have something called the Coastal Directorate, which has an advisory and advisory competence, one might say. And as you may also see in infrastructure in other areas, there is also the possibility that individual municipalities can actually talk together and coordinate these projects so that they can have holistic solutions. Does the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten not recognise that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141012	I think it is precisely in the government's own coastal analysis that it is very important that there should be a coastal council which must involve the municipalities closely when it comes to saying: these coastlines are the most vulnerable. They cross over so many municipalities, and we have to give them priority first. In this bill, I can't see that you don't do a little the opposite. It is true that the Coastal Directorate is still away, but you leave it up to the individual municipality, and there are some municipalities that have more money than others. It is also possible for individual pilots themselves to be allowed to shore-ensure their own small plot. Well, we're going down a road that in my eyes is very wrong. We simply need coastal areas to be linked and we can hope that, as the rapporteur says, this close coordination will take place. But why not make sure that it happens when it is absolutely essential that this goes well?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141112	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141126	The Liberal Alliance believes that the changes introduced by this draft law are a right and certainly a positive step to take. It is a step that will ensure a more effective process on the ground with the establishment of holistic prevention and protection against flooding around Denmark. In recent years we have seen a number of violent weather events in many parts of Denmark that have had consequences for many families. More people may know about this, and if nothing else can be experienced in the national media, and it can be absolutely devastating for those families who, in a matter of hours, have turned their lives on their heads and may actually become homeless. They are affected physically as well as psychologically by the situation for a very long time afterwards, and in fact one may fear that the fear of a new flood will never really escape once you have experienced it once. That is why it is very important that we now follow up the Government's coastal protection package so that we can hopefully limit the consequences of severe weather in the future. It is also because it can be extremely expensive for society as a whole when large areas of housing and other settlements are flooded. That is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the fact that it will now be compulsory for municipalities to take the necessary measures if it is planned to build in areas at risk of flooding. In this way, we will prevent new ones being built in places that are only in danger of being flooded at the next storm or storm again, with high costs for the state, insurance companies and certainly not least for the families affected. In addition, in future, local authorities will have to identify precisely those areas where there is a risk of flooding. Finally, the administrative burden on municipalities is eased by the fact that they no longer need to draw up a local plan for the establishment of coastal protection measures if this would delay the process. All in all, these are initiatives which ensure effective protection against floods and which we in the Liberal Alliance very much support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141406	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141415	I will be relatively brief. Our expert in the field, Christian Poll, could have entered into a much deeper dialogue on this, following on from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I would just like to say that, of course, the motion for a resolution we tabled earlier still seems to us to be a good idea, and here we see some unfortunate elements which we are generally very sceptical about in the proposal. We want to set the municipalities free, but we are worried that we will lose a momentum in securing the overall perspective. So we are sceptical about the proposal and will see in committee whether we change our mind. But we are against it as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left, who is now on the way to the platform with sound steps. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141506	Thank you. In a sense, this is both a sad and a good day today, because it is a good thing that climate change is put back on the agenda and that steps are being taken in relation to coastal protection. It may also be a sad day when we are standing here and now in such an advanced situation that climate change can be felt as much as they can in our country. I would also like to say that there are parts of this legislation that may give me some sad pitfalls. In order to take the climate adjustment this way overall, we started around 2011-12 pieces with seriously putting it on the agenda. In the time of the previous government, we had the first steps taken in a climate adjustment action plan, ensuring that all municipalities could tackle the cities, get to grips with flood plans, for when it rained really violently, and start to see how to avoid water ending up in people's basements, and instead pick it up, both in green areas and nature areas, and let it sink down instead of driving it down the sewers and making large waste water treatment plants that are more expensive. We also looked at how to finance these things and made some new opportunities to co-finance between supply and municipality. So we took a lot of really important steps for climate change adaptation, but I must also be honest and say that it was a little later that we got started with coastal protection. For example, it was... Not in the Ministry of the Environment in my time, so that was one of the reasons why we didn't have it when I was sitting at the end of the table at this time. However, I am glad that this has really been put on the agenda. What we may need in the coastal area is the same as we have done with the general climate adjustment, namely to have an overview of what we are working on. We simply need to have an idea of what parts of the country we want to be coast-proof and how we want to do it and to ensure that the coastal protection of the municipalities is linked. Now I'm not quite as trained in the laws of physics as any of the rapporteurs I'm looking at Mr. Carsten Bach but what you know is that the water strikes with the same energy, and if you shore-ensure one place, it just hits somewhere else. That is to say, it is not just a decision that I want to do something about my cadastral or here in my municipality; you also make a decision about how the water hits other places on the coast. Similarly, if you only look at what those in the front row want it can be a tough coast protection to protect their land. So you can risk them in the second and third rows losing their sandy beach. So it takes a great deal of co-thinking to create coastal protection and protection, and that is why we should have such a national coastal plan as we are working on to ensure that it is a coherent effort that we are making. There are a few good elements in the draft law that we would like to support, among others. that the municipalities are going to do this mapping and get some new tools. However, we find it very problematic that local planning opportunities should be eliminated, because that is precisely where the discussion with the citizens of the municipality should be taken. That is where we need to ensure that there is an overall perspective on what we are doing, and that there is no rush to wait for a local planning process. So we would like to call on the Minister to share the bill so that we can support those parts of what we think is good and again really put pressure on us to have a comprehensive plan for this. It was also one of the things that the committee we set up in the time of our government recommended. That is one of the things that has not been taken from the committee. So we would like that part on the local plan to be included in another legislative proposal, which we certainly cannot support radically.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141847	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and it is the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123141856	In the SF, we believe that there is a need for a proper climate adjustment law or climate protection law, which lays down the national framework for not only coastal protection but also for flooding on land as a result of the monstrosity regime. The responsibility should not be wiped off on the individual municipality. Many of my colleagues have also raised the problem of the fact that if individual protection is provided, then the problem is moved to the neighbour or to the neighbouring municipality. In this context, it is also unclear to what extent the municipality should pay for remedial measures and to what extent they are given new powers to impose first of all on landowners to the sea or near a lake, watercourses or ascending groundwater costs. It will, of course, affect what action is decided and whether action is decided at all. In our view, it is the overall responsibility of government and parliament to protect Denmark from the consequences of climate change, whether it comes from above, from the sea or from rising groundwater. Erosion can also happen inside the country. We think it is a little symptomatic of this government that instead of putting forward a comprehensive priority approach to a national and international problem, it is putting forward a series of legislative proposals from various ministers. Within the framework of a collective law on national climate adjustment, it is logical that the municipal plans detail the effort needs and area requirements. My radical colleague also mentioned this. However, local government plans and implemented local plans are not enough in themselves. A national approach with a collective law will also mean that the government and the Folketing must give priority where the major, perhaps the largest, investments in overall solutions covering decades, instead of imposing on the municipalities and the citizens concerned an expenditure on an effort which, overall, is not optimal and can also prove too expensive. The previous government made an action plan against the water coming from above, and it also launched a coastal analysis, among other things. in order to give priority to national efforts in the field of coastal protection. The government has not chosen to follow this trail in addition to asking the Coastal Directorate to carry out a risk analysis and DMI to create a climate atlas, which is made available to the municipalities together with a guidance from the Ministry of the Environment and Food. In the work of the committee we will look at the elements of the legislative proposal that we can support and whether it makes sense to table amendments. However, we also believe, like the rapporteur of the Radicals, that it would make sense to divide up the legislative proposal. However, basically, we recommend to the government that instead of putting forward a single legislative proposal for a law on climate change adaptation, which takes account of all the consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142150	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142202	Thank you. Now Mrs Ida Auken said earlier in her speech that it was both a good and a sad day today. I think it is mostly a good day today, both because we are dealing with this bill, which I think is very sensible, but also because I actually have the honour of having my mother-in-law in the gallery today. So I guess I'm gonna have to make an extra effort on this bill. By its very nature, conservatively speaking, we can support the proposal. We know that it is a fact that climate change affects the world to such an extent and especially here in Denmark. We can see that what used to be hundreds of years of events, which occurred rarely, unfortunately happens more and more often • more extreme weather, more storms, etc. This gives us reason to look at how we make the climate adjustment out of the municipality. And if there's something I've heard the municipalities ask for, then it's flexibility in the way you do this. It must be said that they will receive the bill that we are discussing today. They get more flexibility. They get better opportunities to plan, so it makes sense locally. We are also giving them some restrictions and some requirements in relation to the way they should look in the future, the way they should plan, and we are demanding that if urban development is to be developed in areas that are in a risk zone, yes, then these defensive measures should be put in place. There is a need for better planning in this area. It is fine to have the opportunity to depart from the local plan if there are good arguments for doing so. I believe that many of us who are in this Chamber have visited Jyllinge Nordmark, and if something has been extremely frustrating for the citizens of Jyllinge Nordmark, it is that it has been so unpredictable and so difficult for them to see when a solution to the major problems and challenges they are experiencing. For not only was there a local plan, but there were also hundreds of seventeen different bodies to which an appeal could be made and which had to approve various protection lines, etc. It was very difficult for them to see when they could actually get the coast protection they needed so badly and need so badly out there. The fact that we're looking at it is a big piece of work, where this is a small element. We will have to deal with several legislative proposals in the coming period, which also support the simplification of the whole way we deal with coastal protection in Denmark. As the Social Democrat rapporteur started out by saying, in Denmark there are over a million Danes who live within one km of the coastline. So this is something that affects a lot of Danes. So in the Conservative People's Party, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142436	Thank you. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142442	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur himself referred to this with precautions to be taken. As I said in my speech, it is unclear to us to what extent the municipality can be required to pay for the defensive measures, or whether the citizens who live in the first place have to pay the costs. Is that something the rapporteur can clarify for me?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142507	Now it is so quirky here that a minister will be on the floor in a moment, and he is the one who represents the government and represents us in this bill. I will pass that question on to him, because I think he can answer that more precisely than I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142523	Thank you. When I ask the rapporteur, it is because the rapporteur usually talks about the consideration of citizens, who should pay and so on, and that is why I believe that when you support a bill as a government party, it must be relevant to know who should pay. Are the municipalities responsible for this? Are the citizens responsible for this? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur really have a great deal of understanding in this area? Does the rapporteur see nothing at all problematic about the fact that we do not have a comprehensive national approach to this either through a fund or a collective law?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142606	Well, there is a need for better coordination across municipal boundaries in this area, and the government has also recognised this in the inter-ministerial committee that has been working on this, so we will also see how we can ensure better coordination across municipalities. I have also played out in the past with the idea that the regions could play a role in this regard, and I think that would be interesting. In relation to the issue of who bears the financial burden, I would like to say that, from the outset, we are behind the broad agreement reached in the Folketing, which imposes the cost of coastal protection on each homeowner, in many cases also those who have the pleasure of living nicely and with a view. We really think that is a fair principle. And then the municipalities can go in and help to the extent that there is economic to it and where it exceeds an economic framework that makes it unreasonable for the individual to have to bear the cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142650	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Business. Good and clear answers were requested, so I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123142701	Thank you for the many comments on the bill. That is, of course, the result of the coastal protection package that we presented on 10 August. The aim of the draft law is to prevent flood and erosion damage. We had different examples of this, both last year, three years ago, and we also had a foretaste of this a few weeks ago. That is why we need the package that the government has presented as a whole palette of various initiatives. And the purpose of this bill has been asked about all sorts of different things that have nothing to do with this bill at all, so I would like to clarify what this bill is about: preventing flood and erosion damage. When you look at both the DMI analyses and also the university's analyses, it is expected that Denmark will experience more violent weather in the future, which can result in more floods or more erosion of the coasts. Weather incidents with severe flooding and erosion are awful for the people affected. I myself have visited several times, among others. Jyllinge Nordmark, most recently here in October. The floods, however, do not only hit the families affected hard, including the state, municipalities and insurance companies, it can have major financial consequences. The Government therefore wants to implement a number of initiatives that support municipalities and landowners in establishing cost-effective and holistic prevention and protection against flooding and erosion. And this bill forms part of those initiatives. It contains two elements. Firstly, we demand that the municipalities ensure in their planning that areas where there is a risk of flooding or erosion are not built without adequate protection measures being taken. It follows from the draft law that, in future, municipalities will have to designate the areas at risk of flooding or erosion in the municipal plan, with a view to building in those areas only new dwellings where adequate control measures have been taken. The State will make relevant data available to the municipalities' designations. In this way, the bill will help prevent the building of new housing that will be at risk of flooding and erosion. Secondly, we allow municipalities to derogate from the requirement to draw up a local plan in specific situations in relation to coastal protection projects if the requirement to draw up a local plan would significantly delay the process of coastal protection. We have seen that too many administrative procedures are currently delaying the establishment of coastal protection facilities, and this part of the legislative proposal must therefore be seen in the context of the other initiatives taken by the government to support the simplified and faster handling of coastal protection cases. Against this background, I am sure that the bill will provide the municipalities with a better framework for planning and supporting municipalities and landowners in establishing more cost-effective and holistic protection against flooding and erosion. Thank you for your comments, and I look forward to the committee's consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143028	Thank you. I can be relatively brief. What is the reason why the government has not listened to the recommendations in the coastal analysis to set up a coastal council which, in close cooperation with the municipalities, will be responsible for the national priority of coastal protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143047	Now it has nothing to do with this bill, but I can tell you why the government has chosen to do it this way. This is because we say first of all that it is about municipalities and landowners being given much better opportunities to be able to protect the coast. I do not really see what a national coastal council would have other consequences than to delay that process. That is why we have chosen not to include it in our proposal. Now it is the bill that we are dealing with here and now, and the next bill is not about it. But the reason why we have not included it in the package as a whole is that the instrument and tools we want to give to the municipalities are of use when you as a family sit out there and are worried and have pain in the stomach and the municipality gets despaired and tears itself in the hair in frustration that they cannot plan by making coastal protection. We are giving the necessary tools for this now. So there is no need for a new bureaucratic link in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143148	But it has something to do with this, because it is, of course, because one strategy is chosen rather than another, rather than the one that the experts in the coastal analysis have pointed out. What is happening is that you let the individual landowner or the individual municipality do their own coast protection, and if the neighbor may not be able to afford it, you push the problems to another family who can then sit and get a stomachache. That is why it is quite crucial what strategy we are following, whether we are precisely ensuring that what is absolutely fundamental is logical when we talk about coastal protection, namely coordination, and that we look at coastlines across municipal borders and ensure that things are linked so that it is not those who cannot afford to protect their own coast themselves that end up with the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143232	Now I think we should breathe, because this is not a question of either or, but of boats and boats, because of course there is a need for coordination and, of course, neighbouring municipalities are talking together. It is also directly in the proposal we made in August and again, it has nothing to do with this proposal, but with the overall package that we made that you can't just go in and do coast protection in isolation seen somewhere, while all the landowners next to you don't have any. But we are giving the opportunity, if there is coastal protection somewhere, for the neighbour to be able to provide coastal protection, because here we are on the side of the citizen. We are on the side of the citizen who, of course, is allowed to protect his own property and secure private property.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143313	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143321	Thank you. The draft law provides that the municipal council may refrain from drawing up a local plan if there is to be a rapid coastal protection. This is something that we in the Social Democratic Party are somewhat concerned about, because we must try to find a balance. However, we understand that there may be some places where you need to do something fast, but we still need to get away with legal certainty, that is, that citizens should be able to be heard, and that different people who have an opinion on it should be able to be heard in such cases here, so that we make sure that not just some hoofsa solutions are made that may mean that some concrete is poured out on the beach. So my question to the Minister is whether the Minister is aware that perhaps we in the conciliation circle behind the law of plans are looking at how this can be done very precisely, so that we make sure that we do not get into that the municipalities get an instrument here where they can bypass good planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143411	What is crucial for the government is respect for citizens, for the protection of private property, but also for the flexibility of municipalities and the ability not to get stuck in bureaucracy with a host of formalities. It is still the case that legal certainty is a priority in the sense that one can still complain about a decision. This just prevents a really long period of time from having an idea to do some coast protection until you get it done. We can take Roskilde Municipality as an example. There is an absolutely excellent Social Democratic mayor, and now I must praise her, because now there are no municipal elections anymore, but she is very clever and effective and there is a bit of red tape in relation to Jyllinge Nordmark, which belongs in Roskilde Municipality. This is a lex municipality clause that means that the municipalities can be more effective in ensuring effective coastal protection for the citizens of their own municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143517	I fully agree, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that the Roskilde case was indeed a wakeup call in relation to this. Nevertheless, I think it would be sensible if we parties that have given each other a hand in a large agreement on the law of plans could also sit down in that circle and look at how we achieve the right balance, so that there is still the need for relatively rapid planning, but at the same time that we do not just throw away all the opportunity to involve different stakeholders in the design of this. So that is my proposal to the Minister, that we stick our heads together in the conciliation circle and clarify this so that we can all see ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143553	We always get good advice. It is not certain that everything we have proposed is the right thing to do. We have two purposes for this. One is that private citizens must be allowed to secure their property and it is not always possible for them to have what the legislation is today. That is the one purpose; we are on the side of the citizen. The second objective is that we will provide municipalities with a tool to help citizens and to help the municipality itself by providing effective coastal protection without too much bureaucracy. Of course, fundamental legal principles must not be affected by the need for legal certainty, and that is why we also have a mechanism for appealing. There we have set in place some incentive so that there will be a faster complaints procedure, etc., but the various procedures are still gone. So I actually think we have hit it quite sensibly, but if there are any good ideas about what else we can do, then of course we are happy to listen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143645	Then we can thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143703	The debate is open. The first is sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123143727	Thank you. Climate change has resulted in more extreme weather and storm tides on the coasts and floods by watercourses and lakes and stormfalls in our forests. These are all phenomena that come more often and have major consequences for the people who are affected by it. It goes without saying that it is terrible for those who have had their homes destroyed when the storm is raging, and that is why we must take this area very seriously and ensure fairer and clearer legislation. And when I say clear and fair legislation, it is because after the storm Bodil saw how many homeowners were hit by storms and floods, and the coverage and process were there to clarify whether you were covered, of course not equally good for all the victims. As a citizen, people sometimes stood and wondered if it was a fair treatment of people in a difficult situation, that is, when there was a process going on, and when people should have recognised the damage and granted compensation, arranged resettlement, stored their things, it was such a thing that was very heavy and that could pull the last forces out of people who were already in a chaotic situation. In the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, we have had an appearance and hearings on the subject, and it has become clear that we as legislators should have the legislation updated. In 2014, under the previous government, we reached a broad political agreement that solved some of the problems with the legislation. As part of the agreement, a working group was also set up to make recommendations for improvements to the three disaster schemes: storm floods, floods and storms. The report came here in the spring of 2017, and the bill we are discussing here is based on its recommendations. In general terms, I would say that the draft law retains all three schemes such as disaster schemes with 20 years of event criteria and solidarity funding from all fire insurance customers. That's good. In addition, the big question for citizens affected by storms and floods is what they can get cover for. And here's the answer: with this bill, you'll be able to get more cover. I do not want to go through all the details, but at least I think it is positive that we are extending the system or the negative list so that we ensure that more people can recover their expenses. In addition to what can be replaced, the question of self-risk is also important for the injured citizens, and here, by its very nature, it is a question of the relationship between self-risk and annual premium. After all, it is not present at this storm flood and flood scheme, as it is not a private-law insurance policy, and therefore the minimum and maximum level of self-risk is set by this law. And I think that the levels to which we are going are quite reasonable. Then there is a section on the fact that the committee has come to the conclusion that it is unclear which watercourses are covered by the scheme. There, of course, we agree that the scheme should strengthen the incentive to prevent floods from watercourses and lakes. According to the proposal, the Minister is authorised to lay down detailed rules on the watercourses and lakes covered by the law, since the draft law requires a more technical definition of watercourses. Here, at committee reading, we need an answer as to whether the Minister has a deadline for the formulation of this technical definition. I hope there is, so that we can clarify as soon as possible which lakes and streams are covered so that citizens are not in an uncertain situation if floods occur before the Minister has the technical arrangements in place. In terms of organisation and procedure, a more uniform treatment of flood damage is proposed, whether from the sea or from lakes and streams, and that is quite reasonable. In the event of damage to both movable property and buildings, the matter shall be dealt with by the insurance company in which the building is fire-proof. It is important to stress here that the Storm Council supervises the proceedings of insurance companies and, moreover, it is also a body of complaint to the injured parties concerning the decisions of insurance companies. And it is very good because after the storm Bodil saw several cases where insurance companies had not exactly behaved as God's best children to the victims. As a victim, it is important to have an opportunity to complain if you are unhappy with what the insurance companies have come up with and how they have dealt with the matter. So it is quite good that this possibility of redress exists. With regard to the financing of the scheme, I think it is a good principle that is introduced by law here, namely that it is the fire insurance customers who pay a fee per year. policy, and that it can then be adjusted up and down, depending on how big a move there has been on the pot. That's how we make sure there's new money coming in to help people. That is a good, pragmatic solution. Then there is a large part of the bill that is about stormfall, and I think it seems to me that the rules proposed are quite reasonable. Finally, I would like to say that we can support the proposal, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that there are a large number of issues that we need to resolve during the committee procedure so that we can be sure that we will come all the way around and ensure fair treatment for citizens when the disaster occurs next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144238	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We move on to the Danish People's Party, and that's Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144252	Thank you for that, President. The purpose of the bill here is to improve the safety of injured persons. After 2013, when the storm Bodil housed and led to a storm flood with very large damage, many properties were under water, among others. in Jyllinge Nordmark, and large parts of the trees in the forests of the western part of Midtjylland fell in the storm, Parliament set up a committee to evaluate the storm floods and stormfall schemes. The Committee came in March 2017 with recommendations implemented by this bill. Greater coverage will therefore be provided for storms and floods in order to provide cover for movable property in cellars approved for residential use and to provide better cover for the storage of movable property. A more uniform organisation is also carried out in the treatment of damage caused by storms and in the treatment of damage caused by floods from streams and streams which will benefit citizens. At the same time, there is an adjustment of the stormfall system so that it becomes more clear when areas of stormfall are indicated. And finally, the bill allows municipalities to co-finance the purchase of land that is flooded through the Storm Council. We in the Danish People's Party are part of the agreement on the changes and, of course, we support the proposal, but we are also open to discussing it in committee if there is something new that suddenly appears and that has not been included in this legislation. Never say that nothing has been overlooked. Otherwise, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144438	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144451	Thank you. With the bill we are discussing here today, there is, of course, a change in the law on storms and storms, which we were involved in making after the time when we had the violent storm. The amendments are based on the recommendations of the Committee for the evaluation of storm, floods and stormfall schemes, thereby modernising and guaranteeing the future of the three schemes on coverage, organisation and financing. It is, of course, mainly a question of extending the coverage of storms and floods from watercourses and lakes, and it is also a question of reorganising the flood scheme and adjusting the stormfall system. After all, the legislative proposal ensures that citizens who are particularly exposed to flooding will experience a more manageable organisation of the treatment of damage caused by storms and floods, and that is certainly what is needed. With what has been seen the people have been exposed to those of us who were allowed to follow it from the very beginning and have visited them themselves, have seen how they were treated through the system and also through the insurance companies, it leaves only a clear indication that we should do something about it, and I think I would like to commend the Minister that he has at least done considerably better with this bill. Then it is also the case that the municipalities will benefit from the changes, and it is of course something that needs to be corrected, but unfortunately we did not reach that last time we introduced a change of law. All in all, I believe that this is a good legislative proposal, which is substantially better than the existing law in virtually every respect. There are some points here and here which I think we need to clarify, and there is something that I would also like to say to the Minister, and which I hope we may be able to look at a little, and it is a little about some dates of entry into force, it is something about § 1, no. 23, I think that's where you change section 13 of the stormfall law. 2, second point and say something about when it should enter into force for site mapping and such things, but these are all small things on which I am sure we can find a sensible arrangement. Then there is one thing that I should like to address to the Minister already and which I think we should try to look at together, and this is about the representation that will be. It has been the case that forestry has always had its own representative there, and now I know that there are many things the Minister is well aware of, but I also know that the Minister is well aware of the whole forest area, and that is why we could perhaps try to see whether there is any possibility that there may still be a forestry representative there, because there is both stormfall and the other part, and that is what we have been discussing, just like two parts. I do not know whether this will be possible, but it is usually the case that the Minister is very open to looking at things like these, and we are in some small things, and I do not really know if we can do anything about them. In any case, I think it is important, when we have followed both those who have been and those who have participated in them, that we look both at those who are covered by one part of the scheme and those who are covered by the other part, namely all the forest owners. I would also like to sign here from the Danish Parliament's platform for what the trade association and especially the Danish Skovforening have done in this area because they have made a huge effort and have also helped to try to lift it here, even when it was out of focus. Because it is often the case that there are many who discuss it here when it stands on and everyone's eyes are aimed at them, but when we then leave it and it has calmed down again in the literal sense of the word, then it happens that it is harder to get attention about it. This also leads me to say that I think it is good to see that the Minister has taken the citizens of these areas, at least in some of the areas • for everyone cannot be represented inside and look at how this should be resolved. That is why, although the Minister may have heard that I have mentioned a few small things, I would like to conclude by saying that, overall, the Minister should salute his officials at home in the Ministry of Industry and say that it was really professionalism that was encountered when some issues were raised during the process. Now we are at the point where we are making a change of law, but there has also been a period when various questions have been asked either by e-mail or in connection with visits to people, and I think the Minister should go home and say that they have done very well. So it is certainly a receipt from here, including to the official apparatus which I think has done a very good job.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144941	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123144952	The Enhedslisten supports this bill, which is after all the result of the political agreement we are all in, from 2014 following the Bodilstormen in 2013. Various issues have been discussed during the preparation of the draft law as to what is to be covered, and this concept of disaster has been discussed, in other words what it takes to trigger storm aid. I think it is very sensible that we should make the proposed adjustment of what the storm river system covers. However, a very central element of the draft law is also when it is a storm flood event. The whole basis of the Storm Flood Act is that it is about help in a disaster situation, and so far it is defined as a so-called 20-year event. I also agree that we must maintain this concept that it must be a 20-year event in order for it to trigger aid. However, since climate change will make this 20-year event more and more frequent, we also need, as is the draft law, to continually adjust up to what it takes in order for it to be a 20-year event. This again means that what triggered storm tide coverage yesterday may not do so tomorrow because the definition changes every five years based water level measurements. But before we completely nail that line, we would have liked to have assessed in committee how quickly this can really be expected to change, i.e. how often in 10-20 years we will experience a storm, which today is described as a 20-year event, but which will not be covered by that time. It is also to make it clear to people living in vulnerable areas what may shortly not be covered by this arrangement. So with that remark, I would just like to reiterate that the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145201	Thank you, sir. President. The draft law here, L 87, contains a number of very sensible changes, all of which are recommendations from the evaluation of storm tides, floods and storms, which will help to secure these schemes for the future. Among other things: The rules on cover are amended and standardized so that the principles of cover, self-risk and compensation for damage caused by floods and floods are similar to those of one's insurance company and so that insurance companies actually deal with both types of cases. Among other things: the risk of injury is eliminated, which can contribute to a much faster, better and more effective damage reduction. The stormfall scheme is also being changed for the better with more simple and understandable access to subsidies for reforestation after stormfall. Contrary to the amount of money that can be saved in compensation payments, it may even make very good sense for the municipalities and insurance companies to be able to buy together houses which have been flooded repeatedly and where measures cannot prevent future floods, at least when they are carried out on a voluntary basis, which is also an initiative in the legislative proposal. All in all, it is a bill that the Liberal Alliance supports in its entirety. I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur). Hey, I also forgot to say that I was greeted by the Conservative People's Party, which also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145340	So it is done. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145355	I would like to say very briefly that, although we were not here in 2014, we would like to support the extension of the agreement concluded by the parties of the Folketing at that time. We are therefore in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145408	Thank you. It's moving forward fast now. Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145415	Yes, it went so fast, and although I moved from my seat when the rapporteur started, it took just a few minutes. I would say that this is a good legislative proposal, with better cover for movable property in cellars being flooded, an adjustment of self-risk, and also an adjustment of the stormfall regime, which we can support. Then there is one thing that we have not talked about here, but which I actually think is quite interesting and worth highlighting, namely this opportunity for municipalities and the Storm Council to help finance purchases for land. It may sound a little technical, but as I understand it, it could be something like what was done in Sanderum on Funen, where in 2009 Odense Water Company was allowed to buy seven parcel houses that had been flooded over and over again. That area was so badly affected by floods that what you saw did, instead of trying to dig out of it or make fascinations or lay sewer pipes, was buying it and establishing a lake. And that made the other houses actually increased in value because they no longer had flood problems. The residents got a lake where they suddenly had a recreational area. And it was significantly cheaper than trying to create the infrastructure that needed to cover these seven houses, whose owners then of course voluntarily let their properties expropriate. So we think it is a solution that in some places people are trying to think about whether there are simply areas where it is better to buy up land and do, for example. water reservoirs of different kinds. And if, at the same time, you can give citizens a natural experience that can make the whole area grow in value, then you have turned a problematic area into a very valuable area. So we would very much like to support that, just as we would also like to point out the possibility that supplies and municipalities around the country have to think new in this way too. It is not always a sewer and a sewage treatment plant that are the answer; sometimes it is simply a new nature. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145617	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145630	As several of you have mentioned before, this bill is, after all, the implementation of the work that was started after we reached a political agreement in March 2014, and I would really like to pay tribute to the Minister and also to the process in this regard. This is something that affects a great many people, and it will hit even more people and even more areas in the future, which is why it is of course important that we have both a device that is future-proof and where there will be help for those who are affected, but that it is also something that we know we can handle from in here. I think it was my colleague from the Enhedslisten who pointed out that we need to look at the concept of disaster, in other words how it develops in relation to 20 years of events, and in this way this is not a piece of legislation that can last for 20 years. I don't think so. That will be something we will be looking at over and over again, depending on how it develops. But we think it is good and it gives some peace to those who live in vulnerable areas in particular, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145749	Thank you to the rapporteur. And since LA has greeted from the Conservative People's Party, we have reached the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123145758	Thank you, and thank you for your comments and for the very positive reception of the proposal. I would also like to thank and acknowledge the good work that has been done, particularly to the rapporteur from the Liberal Group, Mr Seligman. Hans Christian Schmidt, who has contributed very constructively throughout this process and helped to ensure that we have a very sensible bill. The bill implements the recommendations of the committee to evaluate the storm tide, flood and stormfall regime. After all, this committee was set up to ensure robust and future-sustainable storms, floods and storms, based on a clear vote of what is expected of the schemes and those who have suffered damage respectively. The draft law modernises and assures the future of storm tides, floods and stormfalls in relation to coverage, organisation and funding. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of maintaining the three schemes, such as disaster compensation schemes, funded by everyone with a fire insurance policy. The bill provides for a change in the rules for covering damage caused by storms and floods from watercourses and lakes, so that the compensation for damage to a property is similar to that which one can get from one's insurance company. It will be among other things. possible to obtain cover for destroyed movable property in a cellar approved for residential use. The bill also provides for cover for the legalisation of installations, etc. after a flood and at the same time clarify the existing practices in this area. In addition, a more up-to-date self-risk model is introduced which is balanced between a reasonable self-risk and an incentive for prevention and, in order to ensure a smooth and rapid damage reduction in the flood of a property, the self-risk of the damage reduction is eliminated. Furthermore, the draft law ensures that in future there will be a more uniform treatment of damage caused by storms and floods from streams and lakes, by the fact that insurance companies now have the task of dealing with both types of cases. When it comes to the stormfall scheme, we are responding to the forest owners by making the scheme more simple and easy to understand for the forest owners in the future, because the subsidy possibilities for replanting will be simpler. It also introduces a more simple and unambiguous way of declaring stormfalls in order to ensure that the affected forest owners will quickly know whether they are covered by the scheme. Finally, the draft law provides a legal basis for the municipalities to purchase, together with the insurance companies and the Storm Council, particularly flood-exposed land, the so-called red houses, which have repeatedly been flooded and cannot be protected by preventive measures. The proposal will thus allow the owner of the dwelling to live in a new place which is not equally exposed to flood risk, but of course only if the owner of the dwelling agrees. At the same time, repeated future payments of compensation are avoided. In those words, I look forward to a good and constructive discussion of the draft law during the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150105	Thank you to the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150123	As you know, there is no minister in this area, since it is the Bureau that has put forward the proposal, so it is really Parliament's own responsibility. It is therefore the case that anyone sitting in this chair will, of course, listen carefully to the debate on the proposal, because it will be dealt with in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And finally, everything that is going on in this house is recorded, so there is no problem in getting it picked up. The negotiations have been opened and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150215	Thank you. The purpose of the draft law is to create a legal basis for a system whereby citizens who have the right to vote in the Folketing may submit proposals for subsequent consideration as a motion for a resolution in the Folketing, whereby other persons who fulfil the same condition may express their support for such proposals. In the bill it is designated "Citizen's Bill'. The bill is part of the implementation of the parliamentary resolution of 2 June 2016 on the possibility of having citizen-driven motions dealt with in the Folketing. It had number B 169 at that time. The bill empowers the President of the Folketing, after negotiation with the Vice-Presidents and on presentation to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, to lay down detailed rules on the system of citizens' proposals. Social democracy was not part of the majority who voted in favour of the resolution in June 2016. But, of course, we respect the fact that when there is a majority in favour of putting forward a legislative proposal within the framework of the Constitution, we also contribute to that part of the procedure in the Bureau and here in the Chamber. However, this does not lead us to change the view that citizens who want to have a dialogue with one or more members of parliament on a subject or a matter that can be resolved through legislation already have good opportunities for such a dialogue, even without collecting 50,000 signatures. There are, in fact, examples of one citizen pointing out something that could lead to changed legislation, and that is the way it should be. We politicians must be easily accessible to everyone, even elsewhere than on social media. Social democracy is in favour of representative democracy and would like to strengthen democratic participation in society, including the involvement of many in the political associations and other representative bodies which, in so many ways, keep society's cohesion alive. That the electorate also supports representative democracy, we saw on Tuesday, where over 70%. with the right to vote in local and regional elections. My party feels a great responsibility for the whole of society and not just for those citizens who are able to raise a case and collect signatures. As I said, contact with us should be easy. As rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Søren Gade, said in 2016: "... There is an easier way to get a proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber... we agree with that. We also agree with KL, who states in their consultation answer that representative democracy must continue to be the cornerstone of Danish society and not undermined by direct democracy. When testing the L 108 model with new year's citizens' proposals, it is important to take into account the wishes of Danske Handicap Organisations and Elders The case states on behalf of their target groups about accessibility and alternative ways through the digital solution. Finally, I would like to reiterate that, of course, the Social Democrats respect the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing in order to allow citizens' motion for a resolution to be dealt with in the Folketing, and we note that those elements of the motion for a resolution which could be unconstitutional have been taken into account. So, although we are opposed in principle to the proposal because we believe it is superfluous in a highly representative democracy like the Danish one, we support the practical implementation which sets out guidelines for the parliamentary decision on this and for the possibility of having citizens-run proposals dealt with in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150616	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150622	Thank you. Is it not the original idea of the workers' movement that the more direct democracy can be obtained, the better it must be? Initially, workers who did not have their own property or who had been in prison had no voting rights in Denmark. The same applies, moreover, to women and people with disabilities, at least in relation to the constitution. Is it not our task to constantly develop democracy so that it is as direct as possible and as many people as possible can have a direct influence on as much as possible, and could this not be a tiny step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150703	Thank you. It depends on whether the way in which it is done undermines representative democracy, because direct democracy may well be about soloist matters; it may be lobbying; it may be some things where some are strong enough to perhaps get something through at the expense of others. That is why I call upon elected democracy, including through the political parties, which take responsibility for the whole of society and not just for individual cases. But we agree now that we will have it tested, and then we will have to see what the evaluation gives. However, there are some aspects of direct democracy which are contrary to the representative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150744	I would understand the rapporteur if she said that direct use of force, in other words the use of its influence through lobbying or money, or whatever it may be, is a negative thing. But in cases where we cannot have direct democracy so that all people can be involved, we have a representative democracy as a means, not as an objective. That is why we must not defend representative democracy if this can be done democratically and properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150812	I would actually rather that, rather than being less involved, citizens are increasingly involved in the bodies that also represent across social groups, across some attitudes, across religious divides, across upbringing and everything else. There has been a loss over the last many years of those who engage in those bodies today, and therefore we can also discuss who we really represent if it is now almost the minority in Denmark who can at least put up as candidates. This is what we see a little bit, namely that if we open up another direct way, how do we ensure that someone takes responsibility for the whole and not just for individual cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150855	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150859	Thank you to the rapporteur. I listened very attentively to the speech and, of course, I would like to sign off on the fact that you choose to support the majority there is and that you are now making this solution. But what I really want to ask, and perhaps with the rapporteur's reflection, is representative democracy. After all, I do not see the arrangement we are debating today as a substitute. I see it precisely as a tool that may help to strengthen representative democracy, strengthen the involved part of representative democracy, because we see in Denmark today that we have a less collective organisation than in the past, especially of a political nature. So the rapporteur does not think that this very thing, because it is not direct democracy, but a tool for representative democracy, can actually help to strengthen it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123150953	Depends on where the future cut is. After all, I am not among those who are in favour of us having decision-making referendums on everything. So where's the cut? After all, our constitution is based on representative democracy. I have no objection to people travelling through us, but what we spoke for last summer, and as we are repeating now, is that we must be so easily accessible and in such contact with our hinterland that the citizens can also come to us and that we can raise a case on their behalf without there having to be 50,000 signatures behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151035	I fully agree that we should. Of course we do. But I just do not understand the link between direct democracy, that is to say, having referendums on everything, and what is precisely a tool for strengthening representative democracy. I don't understand why that equation is being set. Can the rapporteur not see that this is not direct democracy with referendums, but precisely a tool that we have seen in other countries working together with representative democracy and that can strengthen it and not water it down?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151110	Some of the countries that have this arrangement do not have representative democracy in the same way as we do. They have a different structure in their constitution than we do. Their assemblies are built in other ways. If this was the only place to do it, it could be, but we just think it's unnecessary. We should be so accessible that, if there is something wrong in our legislation, or if there is a deficiency in our legislation, there is no need for there to be a petition in order for us to listen to a deficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151144	Then we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151200	Thank you, President. Since the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is not here today, I have also had the pleasure of talking about this. I have all day ahead of me down here, but I have to refer to the Bureau if there are any more detailed questions about this bill. It is, of course, a legislative proposal that allows citizens' proposals to be made when collecting signatures. It is also a proposal to ensure that it does not conflict with the Constitution. It also requires that there are members of parliament who will take up the proposal and carry it further into the Folketing. In this context, rules should be laid down which the President of the Folketing may lay down in connection with the announcement of the citizens-run proposals. That is in order for there to be more openness and for citizens to be able to speak more easily in this room. Since, as I have said, it is the Bureau that has agreed on this, I will not go into it further than saying that, of course, we have the agreement in the Bureau that is contained in this draft law, and I assume that it will continue to be dealt with in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151320	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151334	Thank you for that, President. After all, the draft law we are discussing today is part of the implementation of the parliamentary decision of 2 June 2016 on the possibility of having citizens' motion for a resolution debated in the Folketing. At that time, in June 2016, the Left, together with the Social Democratic Party, voted against the proposal for the possibility of having citizen-driven motions dealt with here in the Folketing. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to reiterate some of the words of the rapporteur of the Left in this area and also of the motion for a resolution, the Chairman of the Left, Mr Gundelach. Søren Gade, then argued. Although I understand the intention behind this, the idea of citizen-driven proposals still seems superfluous in a representative democracy such as the Danish one. It does so because today every member of parliament is free to take up a particular proposal in the Folketing, and that applies regardless of whether there have been candidates for the proposal or whether there have been statements of support from 10,000, 50,000 or 100,000 citizens, or whether there is only one citizen's support. Moreover, it is the case, especially in these times of social media, that a member of parliament is actually very close to the citizens. I do not think that is too much to say when I say that it has never been easier to get in direct contact with a parliamentarian. This is the democratic system that I believe in, where we politicians listen every day when we are in the country; where we listen to the representations we receive from the citizens; where we engage in dialogue with the citizens and where the one good idea from one citizen can turn into concrete policy at Christiansborg. We politicians must listen, we must dare to take the discussion, we must continue to travel to the country and participate in the discussions with the citizens, and we must encourage the Danes to continue to engage. We must work to ensure that we all use the right we have in Denmark, namely that we vote when we get the opportunity to do so the other day, and so did a very large part of the Danes, in fact 70.8%. of the voters chose to go down and put their cross, and it is roughly at the level of the last municipal elections. This testifies to the fact that the Danish people are making considerable use of the right they have as a citizen of Danish democracy. That is the kind of democracy that the Left believes in, in other words, the representative democracy in which all 179 of us are representatives of the electorate who have voted for us and in which we are constantly in dialogue with our electorate. The Left, of course, respects the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing in order to allow citizens' motion for a resolution to be dealt with in the Folketing, and we note that those elements of the motion for a resolution which could be unconstitutional have been dealt with. So, although we are in principle opposed to the content and are opposed in principle, because we believe that it is superfluous in a highly representative democracy such as the Danish one, we support the practical implementation which sets out guidelines for the parliamentary resolution of 2 June 2016 on the possibility of having citizens-run proposals dealt with in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151638	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123151644	Thank you. Last Sunday I took out of the calendar one day and went and rang doors in my old residential area in Silkeborg, where there are many refugees and immigrants and where the percentage of votes is very low. I called and asked if they were going to vote here on the 21st and if they knew what the procedure was like and all these things. Many did not actually know, and many said: No, we do not intend to. So I said, did you get your election card? They didn't really know what they looked like, etc. It's a big problem when it's like that. I then suggested to them that they should go and vote and tell them where the voting place was and how they did it. Some had lived in this country for 18 years and had never voted and there were also many Danes who would not vote. That, in my opinion, is a problem. It is also a problem that we only have 70%. The Danes vote, because that means that almost a third do not vote and take an active part in that part of democracy. I'm sure they're taking part in a lot of other things. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of as direct democracy as possible that people have a direct influence on their lives and lives wherever possible by being actively involved in the decision-making process themselves. Then there are some decision-making processes in which they cannot be involved, because we say that we are doing what we call representative democracy, so some represent us, and that means that we, for example, are doing what we call representative democracy. elects some to sit in the Folketing. Worse still, some of the decisions that could be taken in the Folketing or in the city councils have actually been pushed to Brussels over the last many, many years since 1972. It alienates people, and it makes people think that some others have taken decisions about their own lives. That's not good. That might be a long explanation to say that this is a small step in the right direction. We are in favour of getting closer to having as much influence on things in our own lives as possible. That is, for example, the case. by having as much openness as possible about the political processes, by knocking as many holes as possible in the relatively thick walls that are on this building, so that people can both stick a hand in and help decide some things, but also can shout so loudly that they can shout out the politicians. It is a problem that more and more people think that they cannot shout out to politicians that there is some sort of politicianism. We must do something about this, both in the way we behave and in the way we allow ourselves to be involved. This tiny step could be an opportunity for at least a few hundred thousand every year to try to see if they can't promote an idea they're passionate about. Democracy has evolved historically, and I do not believe that we have reached the highest level that humanity can reach, either in Denmark or Scandinavia or in Europe. I think that much, much more systematic work can be done on democracy. We can see it for ourselves in the 150 years we have had representative democracy in the beginning with a very, very subdued form. Where, at least, less than 20%. By the Danes were allowed to vote in 1849 more and more people have been allowed to vote slowly, but not all Danes still have the right to vote. There is a problem in this proposal which I have pointed out along the way and we will not table amendments, because we understand that if we did, it could overturn the process of having this small step adopted, namely that it says in the rules, that it is not allowed to propose amendments to the constitution or to make proposals that are contrary to the constitution. It is, of course, a weakness in this, because there are certainly many people in the country who think it would be awesome that we abolished the royal house and got a republic, or that we, for example, should. did something about the European Union or that we did some other things that could be perceived as contrary to the Constitution. The step, the small democratic step, the addition to this, we could then take up later if we now have tried this and it turns out that it is actually something that people will use and that sometimes it also turns out that some of the proposals that 50,000 people are delivering on the table will turn into a change of practice in our Danish policy. I look forward to seeing that, and that is why I think we should support it with all the strength we can also if there are people who can't figure out how to use the system. So we must guide them, encourage them to use the system, but of course also encourage them to be active systematically in parties and social movements etc. Then we can have a more viable democracy and a much, much better and more enjoyable country to live in if we all do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152129	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152131	Thank you. I think we are very much in agreement on the goal of wanting more Danes to get involved in the development of society. Social democracy also agrees with the criticism that we ourselves may contribute to politicians and that not so many are in our political organisations. What is then my party's position is that then we should do something about the reasons for it. So my question to Mr. Christian Juhl is: Christian Juhl, that this proposal causes more people to join the democratic bodies that already exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152210	Thank you. Yes, I actually think so, because I have seen that when people are given the opportunity to interfere in political matters, they get their appetites, they want to interfere more. It often starts with a single question... it did for myself too. At that time it was about apartheid in South Africa and I took part in the movement of solidarity, and I thought the most important thing in the world was to fight for proper democratic conditions in South Africa. And then I realized it was some kind of politics, and then I made friends who were politically organized. So in this way I firmly believe that engaging in a single issue can actually spread it out, so that you also want to get involved in more broad political issues, for example. in a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152255	I am actually pleased that the rapporteur used the concept of broad political issues, because one of the things I fear about the proposal here is precisely that it does not show the shared responsibility of society, but that it almost does the same as lobbyists and goes for a very narrow subject. So I just want to say thank you for that remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152315	I would like to supplement it by saying that it is a clear way of showing social responsibility once every four years and then counting on others to sort things out for you. After all, it is only when people stand up and say: I really think that society can be better there or different there. I see, for example. the emergence of the new parties, in particular, as a sign that, from the point of view of individual areas such as culture, or whatever the hell it may be, you may want to interfere and thus organize and thus say: We will have a voice • we will also press the button sometimes. I think that can easily come out of individual issues and activities such as these, but also from other activities, especially if politicians, for example, are involved. provokes by selling DONG or things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152359	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. And then we jump over the Liberal Alliance for a while and move on to mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152419	Thank you. I remember when we were discussing B 169, and I was very happy. I remember that up here on the platform I almost knocked out my arms of enthusiasm, and I'm actually just as happy today. And it's not just because I've once been called Rasmus Evigglad by a radio host. In fact, it is because I think it is a very important proposal that we are discussing today. What we are discussing is not how we can replace our representative democracy, how we can create a completely new system. No, it is actually how we can strengthen the involvement in our representative democracy. When I first came across a similar arrangement, was right at the start when we had created the new party that I represent today. That's when I met some people from Finland who told me about their system, Open Ministry, and that's what inspired us to continue working on this solution. And that is what enabled me to be very happy with six other rapporteurs from six other parties and to present a proposal in 2016. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, this isn't a big deal. It's a small thing, a small tool. But what I think can get out of it is that it's starting to boost the fact that we ask ourselves all the time: how can we do things a little better? And I agree that we have many good tools, including in our representative democracy, easy contact is made with the members of the Folketing, who are able to appear, etc. But how can we constantly come up with good tools that strengthen it even more? For, unfortunately, we have a trust between citizens and politicians that disappears, and we must take that on board. We also see in Denmark that there is a smaller collective organisation, especially of the political nature. We must also take that seriously, and what I think we can do with this is that we can take a small step and try something and see whether it is the right way or whether we should do something else. That is also why I am actually pleased that this proposal has a sunset clause so that we can take it up and say: did it work? What can we do better? What are we gonna change about that? It was very funny, because when I was sitting down here having this case, I was, of course, doing a little research to see if there were any fun things you could bring down here. And then I actually found out that this involving, that is, involving democracy, actually existed a little back in the era of absolute monarchy, in 1755. For then the court marshal A.G. Moltke issued a public appeal to all honest patriots to submit proposals that would serve to maintain the country's wealth, reduce costs and multiply incomes. And it was actually followed. There were several citizens who responded by sending in proposals. And there I just think it's very fun to look back at the story and see that you've actually always tried some of it. And that's what we're doing now with this proposal. So I am still away from Rasmus Evigglade and knock out my arms and say: how nice it is to stand here, and how nice it is for those parties that did not support the resolution to back up the fact that we are now trying to get rid of this concrete solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152751	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152754	It is not, in fact, about the proposal itself. But now that we are on the historic stage, the rapporteur can go out and read the preface to the Law of Jutland. Because it actually says that if we all behaved properly, there would be no reason at all to have legislation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152812	Maybe someday we'll get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152817	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123152830	Thank you. This proposal is actually quite exciting. This has, of course, been achieved as a result of the parliamentary decision of 2 June 2016 on the possibility of having citizens' motion for a resolution dealt with in the Folketing. And we can then rejoice here today that, although there are large parties in this House who do not think it is the world's best idea, the one they have heard of, there is so much consensus among the parties in this House that we stand together to implement it when we have applied the internal rules of the game we have. And there is reason to rejoice about that, so that it actually gets what it needs in order for us to be able to test whether it can even succeed. Because somehow it's some kind of experiment. It is an attempt to spread democracy and give some access to it. And it is also in the light of the fact that fewer and fewer people find their way to the political parties as members. You could also say that it is a pity, and that is what it is, and if you patch it up, look at it that way with black vision, it may be that even fewer find their way. But it may be that this sharpens interest, that is to say that it can actually get through with something, and then you find out that there may be easier ways than finding 50,000 people to sign and the whole process. One discovers that one has a more direct access to political life in Denmark, which is actually very easy and more direct, namely to join a political party and exert influence that way. One has enormous influence on the nomination of candidates, etc., so if it can arouse interest in that way, then that is a good thing. And if it doesn't and this doesn't work out, well, then it's been tried. Therefore, it is fine that after a few years it is an evaluation of this, where you then look at whether it can be done at all and whether it is used. A website has already been prepared which allows you to find your way in that system. And we also have a secretariat, I think, which can ensure that the proposals that may come through are also proposals that can be handled and found their way here in the Folketing. So I think it's an exciting thought. I think it was sir. Christian Juhl, who was talking about breaking open these walls. They're fat, and it's not always we get out, but we can hope people can get in. So if this could be a signal that it could be exciting to bring in ideas other than those we can come up with in this house, then this is a road. The Liberal Alliance supports this bill and is committed wholeheartedly to getting it implemented as well as possible. And we really think that with the whole basis and the consultation answers that lie there is a sign that this can be done. So full support for the proposal from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153106	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153122	I think I feel a lot like the previous rapporteur. Now we're gonna try some things off, and it's gonna be about opening up. After all, it is an attempt to give more citizens more opportunities to participate in our democracy and to qualify our democratic conversation and the way we develop democracy. It is after inspiration from Finland, where the model has led to a discussion of a few handfuls of proposals in the Finnish Parliament. So it's not like we're gonna be buried all of a sudden. Let's see. But there is experience in this area. It is true, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, that the citizens today have ample opportunity to have access to us as parliamentary politicians. We all know that there is little to be done before a parliamentary politician makes a motion for a resolution, perhaps for some politicians, especially if it is from some citizens near where they are set up. It's all excellent. That is also the way to get some things discussed. We have a representative democracy, and so nobody here wants to change that; we pay tribute to that. As members of parliament, we are bound by our own convictions. There's nothing in this proposal that's gonna change that. We believe that it can help to make clear how attitudes are being broken in the Folketing and, as such, also in the population, as it should be. And then perhaps it is an attempt to see whether we can qualify and make democratic participation and conversation responsible, because if you are to collect 50,000 signatures, you have to work on the arguments: why do you want it to be implemented? What consequences can this have? It is clear that we do not know exactly how it will work, but now we try it out. I'm really glad. I also believe that, as all the other rapporteurs who have worked for this have said, we must say quite clearly: is this going to solve all our problems? Are we getting even with this proposal from the politician in Denmark? Of course not. We must therefore work together much, much harder, but I think that right now, after a municipal election, where a great many people have participated in the democratic conversation, we can say that we are now trying to do some other things too. I have great respect for the broad discussion and support and for the fact that the Bureau has now come together, including with various opinions, into this. I really think that this is an expression of the fact that, as a Parliament, we can manage to take on new tasks as well and that, in each way, we are immensely concerned about the issue of opening up our democracy. I really respect that and all my colleagues in this regard. I think that's a good sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153442	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and welcome to Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153449	Democracy is not such a fixed size: our way of organizing ourselves must follow time, and democracy, fortunately, is much more and more than going to cross once in a while. The citizens already have many opportunities today to be an active part of the democratic process. But we have a problem when Members tap out of the political parties. Fewer and fewer people want to live out their commitment through a party association, and that is what democracy is all about: involvement, mutual and democratic dialogue. But democracy, in addition to the general elections to the Folketing and the municipal and regional councils, is also referendums on major issues, for example. on the European Union. In fact, I think that Danish democracy is healthy. This is evident from the high percentages of votes we have and from the fact that we are being kept well and thoroughly in the ears of a critical and independent press. In Denmark, however, we have a wealth of different popular organisations where the Danes come together on matters that they think are important. After all, the legislative process here in the Folketing is influenced by the trade union movement, by patient organisations and professional organisations, etc., and it is, as we very often see, easy to have a motion for a resolution tabled here in the Folketing. But with the bill that is now in place, we are trying to go a new way. Quite frankly, I do not believe that this will bring about a major change, but let us now look at new ideas without prejudice and let us try to see whether this is the new tool that will hopefully bring more people into the democratic process. For that is what it is all about: involving and increasing in our common society to strengthen dialogue. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153705	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123153711	Thank you. I would like to start by commending those who have all the honour for this bill we are discussing today, and that is the alternative. If the alternative had not tabled their motion for a resolution B 169 at the time, we would never have stood here today and dealt with this bill. So congratulations. It's well done. It's well fought, very well done! We were one of the seven parties that helped to table the resolution at the time. We thought it was an exciting idea even when we were introduced to the first time, and we chose to join. But the honor is not ours. It's the Alternative's, on the other hand, that got the idea for this. They looked to Finland and looked at the experience that has been gained there. They saw how especially young people felt that they had more access to democracy and could be involved in democracy. This is something we are trying to achieve at home, namely to achieve the same thing. It is not as a general rule in my first two years as a parliamentarian that I have had the feeling that there is a lack of resolutions in this Chamber. I did not think that at all that night, when I sat here until half past five to discuss, I think there were 7-8 different proposals made by the Enhedslisten on biodiversity. And it was definitely dragging out to the bright morning. I did not immediately think that we were missing resolutions, and I do not think that we will be thinking about that at Christmas when we are here late to get through the legislative programme. But let me be honest with you. When I look back at the last few years, no, let me just stress one point first. It is not difficult to get politicians to table resolutions today. It is not difficult to get into dialogue with politicians. I think that is an important point, and several others have mentioned it before me. However, if I am to be quite honest, there is a type of resolution that we do not see very often in the Chamber here, and these are some of the really difficult issues. These are some of those who divide us as parties and where we look at things differently. Take, for example, a resolution on euthanasia or genital mutilation of boys. We have not seen that, at least not as long as I have been sitting in the Folketing, and I do not think we do, because it is something that divides the parties internally. It is quite all right that it divides the parties internally, because these are incredibly difficult issues. These are questions to which there is no logical answer, depending on whether you are a member of the Conservative People's Party or the Radical Left. I believe that what we are doing today will mean that we will be forced to deal with some really difficult issues. I would like to say right now that I hope that we will then be big enough as colleagues to say to each other that it is okay that there will be issues where we, as parties, look at things differently internally and have different views. I hope that we can shake hands with each other, in other words that there must also be room for it in a democracy. I really think that is what we can get out of the resolution that was tabled at the time, and the legislative proposal we are debating today, namely that we are being forced to deal with some really difficult things. I look forward to that, although I know it will not be easy. We will then have to evaluate this scheme, and I sincerely hope that we will see that these are the difficult issues we have had to deal with and not whether to introduce the maximum. kiloprices on mix-self-sweets and with winds on the bike path and stuff like that. But I doubt that democracy will be used for that. So thank you very much for presenting the proposal at the time. Thank you to those parties who also choose to support it in the Chamber today, even though they have seen things differently along the way. I look forward to seeing this work in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154046	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154049	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I think that the rapporteur is talking about something really, really important, namely this issue of the difficult issues: what challenges us as politicians, as a political voice, and which is so important. I am actually taking the floor very briefly in order, of course, to sign for the fine words, but also to call for us to actually continue this discussion and that we are several parties who can go together to say what it is we can keep trying to do with some of the small tools, some of the small things that can do, that we may be moved a little by what we usually do. I fully agree with the rapporteur that these may be just some of the issues that we have seen in Finland, for example. These are difficult questions, these are questions of principle, which we ourselves may not always be so good at, because we are constantly trying to find good compromises. The second part is also only important, namely that we also have the discussions, that there is room for disagreements in a people's government, and that we are not all always entirely within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154148	As a Conservative, we are not in fact usually so sorry about the concept of this kind of thing. We want to change society, but it needs to be done cautiously, and it needs to be done with respect for the good existing that we have, and therefore there will also be plenty of conservatives who, on the basis of conservative ideology, will ask whether this is a good idea. We have also had many discussions on this, but one can say that we believe that changes must be made in order to preserve, and what we want to change has something to do with the structural framework of our democracy? What we want to preserve is a living democracy in which people become involved and make their views known. So I fully agree that we must continue to discuss how we can change in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154232	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154236	Thank you. I would like to sign for a very pleasant and clever rapporteur's speech, which puts some other points on the matter than what has been discussed in the past. So I have only one question, and it is whether Mrs Mette Abildgaard predicts that there will be such large issues that it will become more frequent that we in the parties will need to free our members for ethical reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154303	I think that is a very good question and my answer will be yes. I believe that this will give rise to several ethical issues that will be discussed in this Chamber, which will lead to parties choosing to free Members. That is actually why I appeal to it that there will then be room for it. At Christiansborg we like best when we agree with the parties, and when you can say: We go as a party this way together. I can understand that, particularly as group chairman, because it is something I appreciate, but I think we need to make room in these ethical matters for us to look at it differently, because I think there will be a lot of ethical issues that we in the Assembly will have to take a position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154339	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. There are no more brief comments. As was said at the outset, this is a proposal which in itself is atypical, because it is Parliament's own responsibility to carry out the process, as there is no educational support from ministers or others. As I understand that no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and that is of course yourselves. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154415	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154434	Thank you for that, President. For us Socialists, it is very important to promote voluntary work. The volunteers are doing a huge job for others. They make sure to give other people a good life and some good experiences because they actually like to make a difference to other people. Therefore, we must never make it harder to do voluntary work, but on the contrary help that more people want to participate as volunteers. At the same time, we have a labour market in which we must safeguard the jobs that exist and, together with the social partners, ensure good and, more importantly, more jobs. Can the two things then go hand in hand without compromising on the things I mentioned before? I think they can actually do that, which is why it was also important for the Socialist Government, with Mette Frederiksen as Minister, to make attempts in that area. I also believe that we have achieved this with this proposal and this agreement, which we concluded with the government this summer, and which in turn is why we are standing here. The proposal opens the way for people on unemployment benefits to have 10 hours a week as a volunteer, and pensioners to work 15 hours a week without being deducted from their benefit. An association can also cooperate with a private company if it is a matter of donation or support and does not provide profit to the company. I can mention that the association does not need to be a non-profit association, but it must be a non-profit association whose board is not paid, that is. where appropriate, a sports association where the money is used for the purpose of the association and not for salaries to the board of directors. However, the presentation by the government in the spring was not quite what we wanted in the Social Democracy, and we have also fought hard to achieve that during the negotiations. We will not help to give it complete freedom to work voluntarily when it comes to operation and maintenance, unless it is small associations where you cannot normally afford such things and where you have to do so. Because if we open up this, it cannot be avoided as we see it being crowded out a lot of jobs, and therefore it was also important for us that no more was opened up in terms of operation and maintenance. You should not be able to work voluntarily in private and municipal companies as you like. Everything else equally will crowd out a number of jobs, and that was also an important discussion for us. Then it is also very important for us that the law will be evaluated in two years' time, so that we ensure that volunteering does not crowd out ordinary jobs or keep people longer on unemployment benefits. At the same time, the parties to the conciliation have also undertaken to change it if it goes in the wrong direction, and that again is the assurance we have if something happens here that we do not expect. And it's also very important to get along. So I would say that all in all it is a very good deal. It provides a better opportunity to be voluntary if you are not in the labour market and it creates more lenient rules and rules that are easy to understand. It also ensures that job displacement does not run out of hand so that volunteers do not push people away from the labour market, which nobody can have any interest in at all. And that's why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154732	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123154748	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill has come into being on the basis of an experimental scheme introduced by the former SR government; I do not remember whether SF had resigned from the government then, but at least the previous government there left before 2015. An experimental scheme was introduced so that people could work longer as volunteers when they were on daily allowances. It then expired here last year, and there we had an agreement with the government and the Social Democratic Party that we should extend the experimental scheme, and at the same time we agreed that we should make a new legislation that would come into force this January, where we actually made the scheme that had been tried on, more or less permanent, because it would have worked well without the major problems. Therefore, it was also agreed that you could work 10 hours a week on unemployment benefit and senior jobs and 15 hours a week if you were on early retirement. What was also involved in what the government had played out with was that those in flex jobs, unemployment benefits, should also be covered by these rules. We in the Danish People's Party have had this tampered out, because we find it difficult to see that someone who is in flex jobs should be able to work so many hours and crowd out the work of others by working as a volunteer. They must, of course, also be allowed to make efforts in different organisations. But the short of the long term is that you must not take a job which is normally done by paid employees. We must not crowd them out by saying that we are now using volunteers instead. So all the places where they're saying we're gonna get this done by hiring a company for it, can't just say that now we're replacing it with volunteers. That is one of the things we need to keep an eye on, because that is not the intention, and that is not the intention. But it will help a lot of associations around where they can do some volunteer work. We've also had a little trouble seeing something else. An allowance recipient may work voluntarily and there are others who work voluntarily in the area. But they must not, because they are on unemployment benefits, and then they must not participate in the community of volunteers. That's what they're gonna do here. At least 10 hours a week they have to do it. We in the Danish People's Party think it is very good that there is a proposal, and it has been well received around in organisations, but also by those who want to work voluntarily. There it has been well received so that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155026	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155030	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I fully agree with the rapporteur when he says that this should not lead to the entry into and displacement of ordinary work of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits and beneficiaries of flex and unemployment benefits. But that is what the bill opens up, because now there will be a limit of up to 10 hours for benefit recipients where they can do what is called voluntary unpaid work. And it is very clearly defined in the draft law, i.e. that voluntary unpaid work is work which should otherwise be offered as ordinary work, and correspondingly for early-retirement beneficiaries and no limit for flexible and unemployment benefit recipients. That is the whole idea of the draft law, that is to say to extend the possibilities for these groups to carry out voluntary unpaid work without being deducted from the daily allowance and thus to take over jobs which would otherwise have to be paid in the usual contractual manner. So the rapporteur should actually vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155136-2	Well, that's a good thing, sir. Finn Sørensen has woken up, for he could of course have asked the same question to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, but then Mr. Finn Sørensen didn't just wake up and hadn't seen that this was the proposal we had started. We do not expect it to crowd out any employment, because we must not start to replace what is normally used as wage work with voluntary work. Then we know that there are many small jobs around that are not being done today because it is not profitable and all that, and you can then use volunteers for that. But it's not the case that if you're not allowed to use volunteers, you hire someone to do it. You don't. And you can then discuss who displaces the most work... whether it is those who are in jobs who work voluntarily with everything and where there is no limitation, or whether it is the few benefit recipients who work voluntarily with something that would not normally be done. So that's what you can discuss. But we do not believe that it will crowd out the large amount of labour, otherwise we will have an agreement that we will keep an eye on whether or not it may crowd out ordinary work, and then we will be ready to intervene if that is what it is doing. But there is nothing that, in the experimental scheme that was made under the government which Mr. Finn Sørensen supported then, who has shown that there are major problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155249	After all, the Enhedslisten did not support the bill adopted at the time. And that is what we are talking about, so what is it that is supported in the Folketing, and what is it that is not supported? I could probably have put the same question to Leif Lahn Jensen and a whole lot of others, but now I put it to the rapporteur because the rapporteur was very categorical. The rapporteur is opposed to the replacement of ordinary jobs, and I would just say that this is what the draft law provides for. And that is just what I would like the rapporteur to do, because I simply cannot make that happen. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155324	No, sir, it's possible. Finn Sørensen can't make it stick together. I'm not gonna make myself smart about that. Finn Sørensen is usually smart enough to find out the different things. But what is the agreement in this is that the parties that agree on this also agree that we should keep an eye on the fact that it does not crowd out work. That is not what it is intended to do, and that is not what it must be. And, of course, we must also be ready to intervene if that proves to be the case. As I said, however, the experimental system whereby you could work 15 hours without being set off against the daily allowance, as Mr. Finn Sørensen probably supported under the previous government, did not show that there were major displacement problems. I do not think this is going to be the big problem, but if it turns out that some work is needed, we must, of course, also be ready to intervene and look at the legislation. That is what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155418	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155420	I'd like to be absolutely sure of the explanation. In other words, when it is categorically said that people are not being displaced from ordinary paid work, why is there funding in this bill? What's the money for?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155436	Nor do I see any need for funding, but I understand that is something the government always writes in. I don't believe there's any funding need in this bill. I don't believe there's an extra cost in this bill. I believe that the benefit recipients will get to work just as quickly. You can interpret this funding as not getting into work so quickly, but I do not believe that, because if a proper effort is made for the benefit recipients, they will get to work just as quickly. On the contrary, I believe that if they work voluntarily, they have not been away from the labour market but are in progress, and it will also be more interesting for employers to hire someone who is doing something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155519	Well, I'm sure that you can argue for that, as sir. Bent Bøgsted does, but that bill, like Mr. Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted argues in favour of this, since it even contains quite a large amount of funding. It's a lot of millions you expect to spend on it. Isn't it a little strange that the rapporteur is arguing for a bill here but doesn't believe that it has the effect that the bill indicates it actually has?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155545	No, I really do not think so, because if it goes as I expect, the government will not get that expense and then they will save some money. But the government must also bear in mind that what Mr. Karsten Hønge says that it displaces some labour, and therefore they must say: It might be that Mr. Karsten Hønge was right, and that they were going to go a little longer 1 week or 14 days on the allowance before they got to work, and that is an additional cost to the state. I believe, on the other hand, that the recipients of benefits will get to work more quickly when they are at work and are ready to take a job, which is why I am not convinced that it will cost any money. But time has to show who gets right in that game.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155626	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments, and then we should welcome Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155640	Thank you. I'm really happy to be with this bill today. For, on the one hand, it supports voluntary association life and, on the other hand, it supports some labour market policy considerations. And I think we have found a sensible framework. It must be possible for everyone to help, even if you are on cash benefits or early retirement. Voluntary work is in many ways the cornerstone of Denmark's association life. We must guard and watch that, and we must provide good conditions to help the wheels of society drive around. Rules on allowances and early retirement should not stand in the way of the possibility for the unemployed and those who have withdrawn from the labour market to contribute positively to society. The rules must reflect a balance in labour market policy considerations and at the same time provide broad possibilities for voluntary Denmark to contribute to the community. I am not going to go over the bill because it has been well outlined by the previous speaker. But for the Left it has been crucial to land on the border that supports that people on unemployment benefits are still available for the labour market while they can participate in voluntary association life. At the same time, it has been important to strike a balance between voluntary and paid labour considerations. Voluntary work is of great value to society. This applies both to those who help others, but also to those who are helped. Conversely, we must also take into account that voluntary work does not crowd out paid labour. The bill thus ensures that there is room for both paid and voluntary work. Denmark needs both. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155830	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why I give the floor to Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123155846	First of all, I would like to make it clear that, as the rules are today and as they have been for many, many years, there are no limits to the amount of voluntary work in respect of insured persons and survivors, except that they must be available for ordinary work. They can participate in all the voluntary activities they want 24 hours a day. They can be visiting friends, they can gather in relief agencies, runners in recycling shops, participate in sports activities, including as trainers, and many other voluntary activities in which hundreds of thousands of citizens in this country participate every day. All the volunteering and volunteering we have to say a huge thank you for. It is a strong and positive contribution to society, and nobody in this Chamber wants to restrict it. Therefore, the reason for this bill is also misleading, in other words, that the aim is to ensure that no obstacles are put in the way of the positive contribution of benefit and early retirement to society. That was also the wording Mr. Hans Andersen used. But there are no obstacles to that, as the rules are today. The bill is about something completely different. It is about the extent to which benefits, early retirement, unemployment and flexitime benefit recipients may carry out what is called voluntary unpaid work in voluntary associations. And voluntary, unpaid work is therefore according to the law and this is also stated in the bill • something other than voluntary activity or voluntary action. Voluntary unpaid work is clearly defined as work which should otherwise be offered as ordinary work. So the draft law is really about the extent to which these benefit recipients are allowed to perform ordinary jobs which should be paid on general contractual terms without being set off against their daily allowances. There has been a limit of four hours for many years. It is now proposed to be raised to 10 hours for beneficiaries of benefits and 15 hours for beneficiaries of early retirement benefits, and it is proposed to be completely removed when we talk about people on flex benefits and unemployment benefits. In the Enhedslisten we cannot find any factual reasons for raising the limits as proposed. Voluntary unpaid work is, as I have said, work which should be offered as ordinary work and paid according to normal pay. However, benefits and early retirement are not to be paid free of charge. And that is what they do if they do this kind of job for their unemployment benefit or pre-retirement or flexitime or unemployment benefit. This inevitably leads to the displacement of ordinary jobs, and to the individual recipient, we just have to say: this is a really bad idea, because it means that you take an ordinary job from yourself. For many years, there has been a fundamental consensus that the benefit system should not be used to displace ordinary jobs, as several rapporteurs have said here from the platform. But then I just think we should stick to it and maintain the basic rule, namely the four hours. I will not deny that the Enhedslisten will be able to be convinced that these rules need to be relaxed a little. Times change, yes, let's look at it. However, this will require qualified research into the experiments that have already been started and the introduction of clear safeguards to minimise the risk of the displacement of ordinary jobs. But there's no shadow of that in this bill. The only thing there is is a study by Deloitte which even the Minister recognizes cannot be used for any of either side of this discussion. Nor are we satisfied with the new definition of voluntary association, which removes the requirement that the association should serve a non-profit-making purpose, and now opens the way for it to cooperate with private economic interests. In the consultation answers a number of questions are asked as to what the consequences of the new definition of voluntary association will be. What are the consequences of the fact that there is a minimum requirement that the governing board of the voluntary association should be unpaid, i.e. that it is unpaid? And what, as a result of this bill, is the concrete distinction between voluntary and voluntary unpaid work? I just have to say that the Minister cannot answer the questions that are at the heart of understanding the bill. Instead, he will equip himself with powers along the way to define and interpret the scope of the law. And the fact that the Minister and the parties to the agreement have got themselves into something they do not know the scope of. For the record, they should put this back in the drawer. The funding of this is also completely inedible, because it is that you want to cut further into the job rotation pool. So the Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123160357	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123160407	Thank you for the floor. With Bill No. L 77 will be authorised by the Minister to lay down detailed rules on voluntary work in accordance with what is called the "Agreement on new rules on deductions for voluntary work." What the agreement contains is that you can do voluntary work without the benefit being deducted. A person on unemployment benefit may work 44 hours a month without any set-off, while a person on early retirement may work 65 hours voluntarily without any set-off. People on unemployment and flexitime can work unlimited. We very much appreciate the voluntary work being done in Denmark, and we also believe that it is very good that the groups that benefit from the scheme can participate in the voluntary work, and that is why we naturally support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123160510	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments here either, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123160529	In the alternative, we have always believed that people should be allowed to work as much voluntarily as they want, if that does not mean that they take over tasks for which other people should have been paid. We are not alone in that attitude. We share this with a great many people, for example. Red Cross, too. We believe that volunteering has an invaluable value. It has it both for society and for the individual; both for those who do volunteer work, but also for the many children in homework cafes and sports clubs around; the elderly who are visiting friend, and a refugee who has a mentor; children who are taken on a walk by a grandmother. That is why everyone who wants to have the opportunity to do different forms of voluntary work, even if you are on some of the incomes we are talking about here. It is incredibly important that the unemployed are allowed to carry out meaningful activities, both to create value in others' lives and to feel that they create value in their own lives, but also to learn skills and competences that are in demand in the labour market and that can make it easier to enter education. Therefore, in the alternative, if we had not been excluded from the negotiations, we would have tried to ensure that beneficiaries of unemployment benefit or early retirement had to do a little more voluntary work than this agreement envisages, without being deducted from their transfer income. Of course, we would not have been inflexible, and we would not have made progress in those negotiations. It's not our style. We would have put forward good arguments to give these people even greater opportunity to take part in volunteering, and we might have succeeded in putting a small print on this agreement by ensuring that those involved will have more opportunity to do a little more volunteering if they want to. In short, we would have negotiated. Dear Minister, perhaps there is something here that could also be of interest to the Minister with all due respect. If we had been in the negotiations well to feel no, I would say that I thought the alternative was that. And I was incredibly happy to attend the first few meetings before the summer, where the Alternative helped to create an overview of the many details and discuss the many details that need to be thought through in such a bill as this. So we were happy to be in the negotiations. Suddenly there comes a period of radio silence where we are not invited to further meetings. I think it was shortly after the summer break that we were told that an agreement had been made, all of a sudden. The deal's made. And now what I want to ask is what just happened there? So why is the alternative being thrown out of this agreement without warning, after the Minister has praised us and me several times for being both professionally competent and constructive in the negotiations again? Why do you just send other parties into the dark with a bang, without any disagreements, ideological conflicts, or any reason at all? What kind of signal does it send to democracy when, without meaning, constructive parties are excluded from being involved in agreements that they may be able to contribute to? What kind of signal is that to the party-preparing groups? I think there are 20 groups in this country that are currently trying to prepare parties, trying to get into the democratic process, trying to help give Christiansborg a fresh breath. So what kind of signal is it that you send when you say that it's us old people who decide and that the new people can't be there, even if they're behaving nicely? I think that we are not just running the risk of our democracy stalling. Well, I think it looks like the system is completely solidified. So it's just to prepare the minister for that, I'm gonna have to press in to ask when the minister gets to stand here, where I stand. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, we actually welcome it as a starting point. It has not been as good as it was during the trial period, but it has become better than it was before the experiment was started. That is actually the policy of small steps, and we often support that in the alternative, at least to move a little further and create a little value. However, there is one thing that needs to be clarified. There is a place where it says: In addition, the authorisation to the Minister for Employment is extended so that the Minister can lay down detailed rules on the importance of voluntary unpaid work in terms of the amount of unemployment benefit, early retirement and flexitime benefits. I mean, are you guys even done with this? This is for me to see such a long rubber band that it is reasonably impossible to predict what the final result of this law is going to be. So I would like to ask: what is it? I have tried to understand this by looking at the law, but what kind of authority is this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161101	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161114	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we fully support the fact that the scheme that the unemployed must of course also be able to work voluntarily, participate in voluntary Denmark, is now being made permanent and is no longer a temporary arrangement. It's really good. It makes sense that the unemployed can be volunteers as long as they are also available for the labour market. And that is not what we are talking about here at all. In fact, as a fundamental principle of the Radical Left, we have that participating in the fantastic voluntary Denmark in all possible ways puts us all better. That is why I can say to the rapporteur from the Alternative that we have certainly worked for a number of the points of view which the Alternative also put forward here, perhaps to some reassurance. At any rate, there has been pressure for something further to come. Now this is what we have come up with, and it is good that it is a broad agreement so that it becomes permanent and you know what you are dealing with. Quite basic to us, voluntaryness is something that comes in addition. It is not something that replaces going to work. A very, very large part of the many, many thousands of Danes who are active in volunteer Denmark have plenty of work next door. And it is a pity that too many unemployed people have not had access to that community, because it is a fantastic gift that we have as strong a voluntary Denmark as we have. I just got up from the chair down there and saw the ad from Danish Refugee Aid, which they have just put up on voluntary jobs.dk, where they are looking for people, families, especially men right now, who can enter into a relationship with refugees and teach them something about all the opportunities we have in Denmark that are not about the labour market, but everything else. It's quite obvious here too. Volunteering is one of the best that we have in Denmark, and it can do something different than we can as politicians and legislators. It can do something completely, completely different from what the systems can do. No matter how well-meaning the job centres and social workers and all the other good people we have employed in public Denmark, I think that having access to the fact that we meet face-to-face and are equal in volunteer life can put many people much better. So there's full support from here. We would have liked to go further, but we are glad we have come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161422	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161431	Volunteering is a good thing. It is good that the citizens take care of the tasks that lie out there. We must all take responsibility for the community. SF wants more society and less state. When you receive a transfer income, you should not be referred to the couch if you want to have something different and more content in everyday life through voluntary work. During previous debates, SF has at the same time expressed concern that voluntary work will displace ordinary workers from their workplace. For SF, it is crucial that the volunteer work is fenced in so that there is security in the jobs where the volunteer work is carried out. So far, so good. But we also have this bill in doubt as to whether that definition is good enough, and the SF is firmly opposed to the funding that has been found in this bill. The 10 million. kr., found by the conciliation circle, is taken directly from what allows to spread job rotation. It seems SF is a really bad idea. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161545	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161558	The Conservative People's Party, on the other hand, can support the bill. Like everyone else, of course, we are also warm supporters of volunteering. In fact, it should be the case that you could do as much volunteer work as you would like to do when you were on transfer income, but there is, of course, the challenge that you can start to have a situation where people make a living from a transfer income and then do volunteer work funded by transfer income as a kind of wage while doing voluntary work. That is why, unfortunately, there have to be some restrictions. There we are pleased that we are raising the limits a little, and we are pleased that we have a better definition of how we define volunteering and other types of work that we are allowed to do while on transfer income. So we think it is a good little deal that we intend to support by voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161657	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123161705	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the consideration of the draft law we have had here today. There is no doubt that this theme has filled a great deal around the whole country. There are a great many voluntary associations that are rightly concerned with this whole issue, and there has also been a great deal of political attention on this issue, both during previous employment ministers, but also during the time when I had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment. After all, the bill is part of the implementation of the August agreement on new rules on deductions for voluntary unpaid work. I am also pleased that a broad circle of parties has agreed that the rules should not prevent unemployed people who have withdrawn from the labour market from now having better opportunities to contribute positively to society. The draft law provides for the power to lay down rules on the role of voluntary unpaid work in the amount of daily allowances, pre-retirement and flexitime allowances, and the detailed rules will be laid down in notices and guidelines in accordance with the observations of the draft law. It's already there, sir. Finn Sørensen kicks his very steeled claw in the bill and says: Can you, however, deal with this bill without knowing the scope of the notices and instructions? That's where I can reassure Mr. Finn Sørensen. I expect not hours in a short space of time, but days to send it to a hearing, so that, of course, it is also included in the committee procedure that is taking place. It is close to disruption that, at the same time as the legislative proposal, we also have the opportunity to look into the main engine, which you can worry about if you are called Mr. Finn Sørensen, but there will be plenty of opportunity to do so. So the consequences, as Mr. Finn Sørensen had to be afraid that we could then have a political discussion during the committee procedure. The elements of the bill have been explained very well, so I do not intend to do that any further. However, I would like to say something about the question that was also raised about the economy. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen has also read the comments, but perhaps he just forgot to explain them quite clearly from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, so I will therefore allow myself to the many people who may be watching read aloud from them: The evaluation carried out on the experimental scheme points to the fact that beneficiaries of benefits who do voluntary unpaid work will be unemployed for longer than beneficiaries of benefits who do not do voluntary work. The results of the evaluation are uncertain. However, it is estimated that the possibility of volunteering may mean that part of the time that could be spent on job search is spent instead on volunteering. It is based on the so-called Deloitte Survey, which says neither one thing nor the other, because there is no clear conclusion to be drawn so that it can go in both directions. So when the government has set aside an amount, it is for precautionary reasons. It is not because it can be said that there is a job displacement, because we do not, if I may say so, have a basis for saying alone that the report does not clearly conclude it. Finally, I would like to say to the Alternative, which, I understand, is a good draft law, but which criticises the Minister, and that is always a good position and also the process: I should not hide that the process could have been better, but it also depended on the financing model that was created and of which the alternative was not a part. But I have at least subsequently tried to get better at reaching the alternative, which is why the alternative is also included in some agreements we have made after August, among other things. agreement on a new holiday money system, to name but one area. I am therefore sorry if the alternative feels that they were not, if I may say so, given the opportunity to complete an otherwise good course of being part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162100	There are a few brief comments. It's first as announced, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162105	Now, in fact, I think that when people first apologize and then are ready for what can be said to change things a little, a lot must be listened to. So I don't want to drill so much more into it. I just want to ask you about the funding. As far as I understood, the funding was not very extensive. I think it was in the order of 10 million. kr. kr., which is probably not needed, that one had to go to a completely different conciliation circle to find them. That way it's going to be the circle that's going to determine this as well. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162155	At any rate, it is well understood that the parties supporting this proposal have also hand-and-handled over the money that might potentially be needed. There is, of course, a debate today about whether they will be implemented and whether they will have an economic impact. But for precautionary reasons, they are 10 million. kr. Then set off. But yes, that is quite correct. Of course, the alternative might also ask whether the Minister could not have been more ambitious and found the money somewhere else, so fresh money that is not settled. I think the Minister could have done that if it had been a better minister. It is to be hoped that the minister has learned from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162231	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162240	Thank you to the Minister for confirming that this Deloitte study, which is the only study of how the trial period worked, does not actually say anything that can be used for anything. This then confirms my view that at least one should wait to put forward such a draft law on permanent amendments to the legislation until one has a qualified basis on which to do so. I would also like to sign that the Minister will obviously try to make us all smarter about what the bill really means: what do the concepts used, namely voluntary unpaid work on the one hand and voluntary activity on the other? What are the consequences of changing the definition of a voluntary association? That's great. But if it is the case that the Minister does have the answers to the questions that are asked by a large number of actors, both those who think it is a splendid proposal and those who are very concerned about it, then I think that they should be included in the draft law, because these are conceptual definitions. So I don't really understand why the Minister doesn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162352	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162356	Now there are many possibilities, if you think that what the draft law says is not clear enough, that you can ask those questions during committee reading. I would be happy to answer those questions. So I would urge you to do so, sir. Finn Sørensen. However, I do believe that the intention and the political message contained in the draft law are quite clear also in relation to what has been in force before. That is because we want to give better rights and a greater number of hours, but also, if we may say so, a better definition than has been the case before.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162426	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162429	Thank you. After all, it is not impossible for you to put a number of questions to the bill. I have just attached myself to the hearings, which, of course, pinpoint the very sore points in the draft law when it comes to finding out what the scope of this bill really is. And to the central points, and I have counted up at least three, which I have also mentioned from the platform, the Minister answers that the answer can be found when there is an announcement, because he will leave that to himself to define; that is not something that the Folketing should define. I think that is a worrying way of working on such things, and I do not think we are finished with that discussion, because I hope I will get some material for it when the Minister comes up with this draft soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162517	In other words, I am now very concerned about the use of powers in cases where I myself was not to be the Minister, but also in relation to my own poor abilities, I think it is important that powers are clearly clarified and discussed in the Danish Parliament. This can be done in many ways, and that is why I mentioned that the very precise definitions here, which will be shown more in a guide, must also be the subject of a political debate, but not everything can necessarily be seen in a legislative proposal. I think so too, sir. Finn Sørensen knows. But there will be plenty of opportunity for that, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, and I also know that Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen will ask questions, and I will look forward to answering them very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162600	Thank you. As there are no further questions, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has also ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162614	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162627	Thank you for that, President. This proposal, which we have before us today, actually solves a hard Gordic node in relation to our benefit system. We have a labour market today in rapid development and change, where you have not only one job, but how many have special atypical jobs, and some even have a company alongside their normal employees' jobs. There are people who set themselves up in a developing labour market but who, with the old system, have been stopped over and over again by the benefit system. That is why several people have also said to me that they either did not seek these jobs or did not dare to start up a business at all, and that is somewhere wrong. This meant that the benefit commission, which we have all heard about in here, wanted to change the system with regard to atypical employees and self-employed workers, but they did not have time to look at it because they had much to look at in advance in relation to the whole benefit system. That is why the conciliation parties behind the unemployment benefit reform, with which the Social Democratic Party is also present at the table, decided to set up a working group with the social partners to come up with proposals for a better system. The working group has been completed and has delivered a result on which they were fully agreed. We have largely followed this result with this proposal. I would like to commend the social partners and the group for a very, very good proposal. We now have a system in which it will be much simpler for the employee and the self-employed to receive benefits. It will be easier to have an atypical job and it will be easier to be self-employed in relation to the benefit system. We will have a system that is easier to understand where we can adapt to the labour market and where it is also easier to quit as a company. We get a much safer daily allowance system for the individual and a good boost in the Danish flexicurity model. On the other hand, it is also a very technical area where it is important for us to follow whether things are going as they should and whether IT systems can keep up. The IT systems have, after all, been of great interest to me, and I have called the Minister in consultation several times. The minister is nodding in the affirmative. But we have to, because we are particularly interested in following this area. It is therefore also good that we in the conciliation circle should meet a few times a year here in the implementation phase and in 2021 make an evaluation of the agreement. So the Social Democrats support the proposal and we look forward to following the implementation and outcome of the change.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162851	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162855	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentioned some of the improvements contained in the draft law, but it also contains some deterioration. For example: The new rules on income, which introduce a ceiling on income to be achieved, will mean that some self-employed people who are currently able to earn the right to benefit will not be able to do so in the future. The minimum rate that exists today will be abolished, i.e. a safety net, a lower limit on how low your daily allowance rate can be, i.e. 82 per cent, will be abolished, while creating new calculation rules. Therefore, in this area, we will experience the same thing that 3F has already experienced, namely that some members lose thousands of kroner per month in cash benefits. It's just to mention two, for the time running and there are a few more. I would like to ask the rapporteur: why does the rapporteur support such a deterioration in the conditions of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123162954	It is simply because there is a difference between Enhedslisten and Social Democracy. Enhedslisten supports virtually nothing if there are any deteriorations. What we're looking at when we go into something like this is whether the overall framework is better, and that's it. It costs some money, and why does it? That's because more people enter the benefit system. All other things being equal, it must please Mr. Finn Sørensen, that more people enter the benefit system. I am pleased to see that our party is pleased, and that is why we are also in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163019	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163022	I do not understand where the view that this should lead to more people entering the benefit system comes from. I have just referred to one of the deteriorations which is likely to result in fewer. But the key question is: why does social democracy contribute to the deterioration of the conditions of the unemployed? After all, it is the unemployed themselves who are going to pay for the improvements that are in the legislative proposal. Why do you not look at some other groups in society, for example? The 10%. the richest people who have received much, much more money in recent years? Why shouldn't they contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163102	Now I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen to read the bill. I do not exactly remember it, but I think it costs about 20 million. kr. When it costs it, it is because there are more people entering the benefit system and it is becoming more expensive. And I'm just going to say to Mr. Knox again. Finn Sørensen: Read the bill and see that when this costs money, it is because more people enter the benefit system. Then I just have to say that when we have the social partners, the employees, the LO, and DA, who all say that this is the right thing to do when we talk to them, and we have some of the unions that have atypical employees who are cheering over this, I can only be satisfied. And I don't share the negative mood that Enhedslisten has.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163141	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163145	The reason I am taking the floor is that I would like to ask Mr Seligman to do so. Leif Lahn Jensen to confirm that this system of atypical employment is that among other things. such as temporary workers, some who receive fees, some who are self-employed, can combine their income and thus use it in the benefit system to calculate their daily allowance. There are, of course, some who cannot take any of the wage income into account in calculating the benefit, but they can do so here. The 250,000-300,000 who are self-employed and who combine it with being employees and having a fee job can now begin to calculate it. Even actors will benefit from this proposal. - Sir... Leif Lahn Jensen does not confirm that this is the case and that there are therefore more people who can then benefit from the benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163235	I fully agree and thank you for that, I would like to say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Well, I've had people who were in the union and all sorts of other things, and I know that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has also been representing these groups of atypical employees, of whom there are more and more, and they have said this and are really happy with this system. I just have to say it, and that is why I am responding as I am to Mr. Finn Sørensen, for I have hardly heard anyone, not many who oppose this. Most people praise it and welcome it, and I will allow myself to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163306	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163323	Thank you for that, President. I really think this agreement is a very good one. This is also what the parties have been working towards, i.e. finding an arrangement for atypical employment. It was the outstanding thing that was when we made the big allowance settlement. Then we lacked those with atypical jobs, self-employed, combination opportunities for wage incomes, and that is what we are achieving here. I guess there are 250,000 to 300,000 who have had trouble approving their calculations of income, and we're gonna solve that problem with this. It may well be that, what to say, there are some initial difficulties that we need to keep an eye on, and that is also why we have agreed to meet twice a year in the first few years to see how things are going. In general, however, as has been said, it has been very well received by those who have these atypical jobs, those who have temporary jobs, those who work on a fee, those who have some independent work where they can combine it with each other. It may always be possible to find something that goes in a slightly opposite direction, something that is a little negative, but in general we have got a very good proposal here that solves many of the problems that have just been with these atypical jobs. There is also the fact that you can use the benefit system if you stop with a company. You don't have to sell out the whole company, but you can keep a company and then work your way up to being self-sufficient again. You then have 30 weeks to get supplementary cash benefits. This also means that new entrepreneurs, if they want to start up, can do so while they are on unemployment benefits. If they then come above a certain amount, it must be registered and what they earn must, of course, be offset against the daily allowance. It is not the case that you get double benefit, but you have the opportunity to combine it and then use a period of unemployment as an entrepreneur to get started, and that is also a good thing. After all, we have had the problem that many self-employed people, if it went badly or someone wanted to leave the company, have had to dispose of it all, and this is not necessary here. You can combine it, and I think that's a really good thing. It is certainly a proposal that has been very well received around. We shall then evaluate it in 2021 to see how it is related and whether what we had expected of it will last. But at any rate, I think that what we hear when we talk to some of those who get involved in it is that they're happy that we've made this system. I have not yet met anyone besides in the Parliamentary Chamber who has spoken negatively about this; otherwise I have actually only heard positively about the bill as such. If we take it as a whole and look at the developments in getting more and more atypical jobs, that we get more and more people combining their work, then we also have to take it seriously and see how we solve their problem. Therefore, it is precisely with this bill that more people can use the benefit system to ensure their lives are not squeezed, if it is now that they have a company that goes down, ensure that, even if they work very many hours a day, it can be as self-employed combined with an employee's job or combined with a fee, they can use all their income so that, if they get into trouble and do not have anything, they can be in the benefit system. I think we can achieve that with this. There may be some flaws in beauty, but that's what we've agreed to follow up on, and that's why we meet these two times a year in this time. So everything else equal we in the Danish People's Party think that it is a good bill that has come and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163749	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163754	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. After all, I am not surprised that the Danish People's Party is contributing to the deterioration of the unemployed, for the Danish People's Party has done so before, not least with the VK's unemployment benefit reform in 2010, when the Danish People's Party was actually proud that they were the ones who had cut the daily allowance period from 4 to 2 years and doubled the claim for the refund of the benefit. So it is not so much surprising to me that the Danish People's Party supports a bill where there are some further deteriorations for the unemployed. There are also some improvements next to it, and I will recognise and deal with that later. However, I would like to ask: why is this necessary? I would like to confront the rapporteur with two further deteriorations in addition to those I mentioned earlier. One is that there is no longer any possibility of temporary cessation of self-employment, and this may mean that a company will be forced to close down completely if it is exposed to exceptional events beyond one's control. That's one thing. The second point is a very severe tightening of the period during which supplementary benefit can be obtained, because it is reduced from 78 weeks to 30 weeks. Why is such deterioration necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123163905	What lies in it is that we equate it with ordinary employees in this connection, and I would like to say to the 78 to the 30 weeks that this is what an ordinary employee can get in supplementary benefits. If there is any ambiguity about the business and about the fact that, if you have to shut down for a period of time, because of it, you cannot get a daily allowance without disposing of the business, then that is something we must look at and find a solution to, if that is the case. Because it should be the case that one can combine it and that one should not sell out one's business if one shuts down and gets ordinary employee work. But if there is a special event that means that you have to shut down it may be because of illness it is something we are willing to look at in the conciliation circle to see if we can find a solution to it. I wouldn't rule that out. I can't promise here that we can, but it's a talk we'll have in the conciliation circle if it's such a coincidence, sir. Finn Sørensen refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164005	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164008	Thank you. Now I think it is a really bad excuse that employees have already had their conditions reduced, when it comes to access to supplementary benefits.The Danish People's Party has also supported that when they have it, others must also have it, while, like you, pride themselves on the fact that a very good solution has now been found for the self-employed. At least that's not what you have on that point. Is the rapporteur aware that the rule on supplementary allowances, i.e. the way in which they are to be calculated and settled when it enters into force, because there is a transitional period at the moment, can mean that one hour's work can result in the loss of a whole month's allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164057	I'd like to say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that what I want to focus on here is that we have made legislation that solves problems for so many people and that allows you to enter the benefit system if you have an atypical job. It's about 250,000-300,000 I don't have the exact figure of how many it is that can benefit from this and get into the system. This also means that you have to work next to the benefit, where you get it set off in the benefit system. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen knows this when the benefit period is over and that there may be a transitional problem there. It is the same as for ordinary employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164139	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164149	Thank you. Safety and safety are the keywords in the Danish labour market model. That is the way it is today, and that is the way it should be in the future. That is why I am delighted that we are dealing with this bill today. I think we all agree that we must equip ourselves for the labour market of the future. We must ensure that we have the right competences, but we must also ensure security and security for employees, for self-employed people and for those who sit on both chairs. Nobody gets caught in between. As you know, the draft law is based on recommendations from the working group on self-employed persons in the benefit system. You have done a commendable job, which means that we can now take a major step towards preparing ourselves for the labour market of the future. This is a necessary step, because already today many people are exchanging between different types of jobs, for example. As employees and self-employed workers, the benefit system is not well equipped to deal with today. That is why we need to adjust our benefit system so that it embraces the future forms of employment. We must make it easy, flexible and safe to embark on independent adventures alongside our work. An inflexible system of quadrupled rules should not tighten its feet. We're gonna change that with this bill today. We are creating a more modern and flexible benefit system that focuses on activity instead of trying to force people into one box as either an employee or self-employed. The draft law provides greater transparency and security for all regardless of the form of employment, and we in the Left think this is very positive. If we are to seize the opportunities of technological development, flexibility and security are the key words, and with this bill the Left believes that we are taking a major step and a necessary step towards the labour market of the future. That is why the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164343	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164354	The previous rapporteurs have mentioned some of the improvements that lie for the self-employed in this bill. It would have been very good for them if, at the same time, they had mentioned the deterioration that also lies in it. It is a pity that we have to ask about it in order to bring it out in the light. But then let me just try to be more nuanced and first mention the actual improvements that are in it. First of all, it should not count in the consumption of supplementary allowances if you are on work distribution or returned due to weather conditions. For example, it will. be of benefit to roofers and other building workers who can keep their jobs and to their employers who can continue to work. Secondly, it is easier for freelancers to earn the right to benefit and to calculate a reasonable rate of unemployment benefit because it is now possible to include both income from wages and income from self-employment for calculating and earning the right to benefit. This also makes it easier for freelancers to have income regarded as income in relation to the benefit rules when it is taxed as income from wages. Thirdly, it is, after all, a relief that there is no longer a requirement for independent secondary employment to be carried out outside normal working hours. Fourthly, there are more relaxed rules for working spouses. If you are employed under normal pay terms with a wage agreement, you can now be employed without risk in your spouse's business and you can cease in the company if you are dismissed or have a valid reason and you can receive a daily allowance without having any consequences for your spouse's business. These are excellent improvements that many self-employed and freelancers will be very happy about. But then there's the back of the medal. Firstly, there are the new rules on income which will mean that some self-employed people who are currently able to earn the benefit will not be able to do so in the future. Because the proposal now requires a minimum income of DKK 218,616, and if you cannot, there is no benefit right. Under the current rules, you are entitled to cash benefits when you have been engaged in a substantial amount of self-employment in the last three years. And to a significant extent, it is understood that employment can be equated with wage work for 30 hours a week. But even if you meet that requirement in the future, you will not be able to receive cash benefits if you do not have the income mentioned at the same time. Secondly, the minimum rate, which today guarantees the self-employed a rate of 82 per cent, is being abolished. And it's a safety net. But this is happening at the same time that the new calculation rules can lead to a very low rate of unemployment benefit, as has happened for employees. So the new profit rules along with the new calculation rules and along with the abolition of the minimum rate of 82%. may cause marked deterioration for some self-employed persons. As far as employees are concerned, 3F already has a few examples of how wrong things can be, and we are discussing them in a consultation on 6 December, but it is worth noting that the consequences will also be felt here. The third deterioration is that one can no longer temporarily cease self-employment and this may lead to some companies being forced to close down completely if the company is exposed to some extraordinary events over which one is not the master. And then there is the tightening up of how long you can have supplementary benefits, a drastic cut from the current 78 weeks to 30 weeks. These are totally unacceptable deteriorations which mean that the self-employed and the employees affected by the bill will themselves, if they are fortunate enough to benefit at some point from the improvements, pay for the improvements, except for an additional cost of 7.5 million. kr., which is taken from the savings that occurred when changing the time of change of unemployment benefit rates to young people under 25 years of age and limiting the entitlement of PhD students to unemployment benefit. I still lack an answer as to why it is necessary to carry out such deteriorations, just in the eyes of the goose because some improvements will also be made. It can only be because, politically speaking, it is the way it should be. I am not surprised that the bourgeois wing feels that way, but it is really a pity that the Social Democrats support that view. I also find it thoughtful that a majority for such a proposal could be created when one looks at how, over the last many years, tax reductions have been granted time and again to the richest part of the population, which has led to a massive explosion in inequality in this country. It just doesn't add up. So in those words, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164850	Now I can just hear that mr. Finn Sørensen says it's like there's no advantage or any good in this. - Sir... Finn Sørensen confirms the following, which is stated in the bill on page 45 if Finn Sørensen has not come this far in his reading: There are 315 extra full-year persons who actually come on the daily allowance • 315 and you spend extra as an additional cost 53.2 million. kr. On this? - Sir... Finn Sørensen doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164925	Well, it would be nice if Mr. Cole were here. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen was able to confirm that he had listened to my rapporteur's speech, but I can hear that. Leif Lahn Jensen is unable to. Because he started his question by saying that I had not dealt with the improvements that are in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164944	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123164945	What I heard, too, was that sir. Finn Sørensen spent most of his time mourning the things in it that are not so good. In other words, Mr. Finn Sørensen, in fact, and Mr. Sørensen does. Finn Sørensen then confirms to me and anyone who listens to this... doesn't care more about the 315 extra people who can get on unemployment benefits, doesn't care that you spend extra, and then apparently doesn't care that it's the social partners who have actually been sitting and doing a really good job. Mr. Apparently Finn Sørensen didn't see that they did.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165015	It's very funny. I would like to recommend Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen to hear my speech from before. Then he will see that there is actually a very good balance in it, as to how much time I spent describing the improvements, even something more precise and nuanced than Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen himself did. And then I just want to say that unlike Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, I have the impression that when I stand in this Chamber and at some point when we are done with the treatment, I have to press the red or the green button, then I have to use my own head to think with and not deposit my decision-making power with people who sit outside the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165107	Thank you. Bill No. L 88 creates more transparent rules in relation to how the benefit system interacts with self-employment, and this is a consequence of the agreement on a new benefit system for the future labour market. There are good historical reasons why the benefit system has been based on an employee logic, one can say where there is a contract or agreement that clearly defines whether a person is full-time or part-time. There I just have to say as a person who himself has been self-employed and freelancer for decades, that this is a logic that fits very badly, for example. entrepreneurs who can both get into the situation that they work a lot and have a small income, but fortunately they can also get into the situation that they may not work so much in time but have quite good earnings. The changes that are now being proposed are therefore some that deal with this challenge, which is quite significant in a modern labour market. A solution is found for entrepreneurs who also have a wage income, and then they also get the amount of estimates that are in the system out of it. So all in all, these are some good improvements that we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165252	Thank you. We would have liked this agreement to have had the ambition to construct a completely new model for this type of employee. By this we do not mean that it cannot be a proper step on the road. We voted against the unemployment benefit reform made by S, V and DF with the support of R. We think the lack of ambition. In our opinion, it caused a net deterioration in the situation of the beneficiaries. We don't think it's that bad with this partial agreement for the self-employed and the atypical employees. There are certainly positive things. It will be possible for self-employed and atypical employees to regain the right to benefit much more quickly. At the same time, B-income will count towards the acquisition of benefit rights in the benefit system when the income is considered as employee activity and AM contributions are paid and the income is not included in an enterprise. Finally, you are only self-employed in the benefit system if you are taxed as a self-employed person. It will therefore be easier to see, for example, when. Artists are self-employed. Of course, we call good friends and hear what they think of this agreement. We called, for example. to the artists, and they were happy with it, they were actually really happy... not completely cheerful, but they thought it was a good step on the road. Similarly, we have experienced a number of good reactions to it. We also have a lot of respect for the fact that these are tripartite negotiations. However, there are thorns in the proposal, and they have been described quite in detail by the rapporteurs before me, and that is also good. One of the things we think is a big thorn is the halved conversion rate. This leads to a lower rate of daily earnings. Insured artists, for example, are at risk. to receive less benefit than today and may find it difficult to reach the maximum benefit rate again as other employees. That is why we would like to mention an improvement proposal which the artists, who have many of these atypical employees, have proposed, namely that a higher conversion rate should be introduced so that the employees referred to reach a higher rate of unemployment benefit after the recovery of the daily allowance. We think the artist's model, where they propose a conversion rate of 140 instead of the 116, is a fine rate. We're hoping that the government will look at this improvement option of this bill in the forthcoming committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165558	The draft law, as several rapporteurs have explained in detail, is an implementation, an implementation of the recommendations of the working group on self-employed people in the benefit system. It was, of course, a working group which we in the Radical Left worked very much for, so that this issue could be taken seriously. We have wanted this for a very, very long time, and that is why it is right and proper that self-employed people and employees should finally be more closely integrated into the benefit system. It is becoming more flexible and better adapted for the future and the present, as it is already the case that there are plenty of people in Denmark who have complex job forms, and there have always been and fortunately there are currently more self-employed and entrepreneurs. They must, of course, have the same opportunities and rights, and we will come closer to that with this bill. There is also extensive digitisation with which, I hope, will also provide greater transparency of the rules that have been difficult to deal with at times. So I will not explain any further, others have done so, but full support for this and for the future full focus on it, that entrepreneurs and mixed forms of work require us to look at things again in a whole range of other areas too, because those people must of course be ensured in the same way, so that we can get more, who start their own business and mix their job forms, under proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165808	The daily allowance system must be suited to the modern labour market. The daily allowance must provide security and support flexibility and conversion. The reality of employment moves in these years, when more and more people are employed in temporary work, part-time jobs, and mix their working life between self-employment and jobs, paid with remuneration of different kinds. The atypical has gone and has not become quite so atypical anymore, and we must respond to that. It is good that the professional organisations have found solutions that modernise the benefit system and thus hold hands under these many people who work in different, atypical jobs than they used to be. It is for that group of people who cannot be put into a particular square box in such a way as to work and pay. However, there are also a few questions about the implementation of the law which must be pursued during the committee work, but as a starting point the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165916	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123165928	It may not come as a huge surprise that we also want to support the bill, as we now do when we sit in government. Then the government's bill is often supported. I would say that I think it is good that there are a little better conditions for people who are self-employed. I've been self-employed myself, and it's actually still gone. I do not believe that it is the prospect of earning unemployment benefit that drives quite a lot of self-employed people, so I do not know whether we will strengthen entrepreneurship in this way and get many more self-employed people out of this. But we are getting a little more reasonable, you might say, in that the people who are self-employed must also have the same rights as other people. It's pretty hard to find the right system, because, like Mr. Knox... Henrik Dahl also said, so you often go and work for a long time without really earning anything, and if you earn unemployment benefit based on income then we haven't really solved the problem. And if you have a high income, you probably continue as a self-employed person, because then things are going well, and then you don't need those benefits. That is why I do not think that we have solved all the problems with this at all, but it was the best thing we could come up with, and I think that some competent people have been set up to make proposals, and then we have to support it as a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170053	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170058	Let me also thank you for the comments that have fallen on the bill here, which, of course, translates into agreement on a new unemployment benefit system for the future labour market from May 2017. I am glad that the government and also the parties that have made the agreement, namely the parties to the agreement, address the challenges that have existed for many years in relation to access to unemployment benefit for self-employed persons and people with what we call atypical employment. There is no doubt that the labour market that will meet us in the future will offer many new, changing and complex forms of employment. That is why it is also timely care to start making legislation now that takes account of a labour market that will certainly change. The benefit system must be able to embrace this, and this is the starting point for the agreement on a new unemployment benefit system for the future labour market, which a broad circle of parties is behind. With the adoption of the bill, the rules on the allowances for self-employed and atypical workers will in future be harmonised with those for ordinary employees, as has already been shown in the debate today. This gives everyone, regardless of the form of employment, a better safety net and greater security if they lose their income. The draft law means that all employment will be able to count in the calculation of entitlement to the daily allowance and in the calculation of the daily allowance rate. For example, the draft law means that a person who has both a self-employment and an employee's employment will be able to use both types of employment to earn the benefit. At the same time, we are also continuing the intention that the daily allowance system should be based more on objective, register-based and therefore digital solutions, which will create greater transparency for all. This is done, among other things, by the fact that future rules lead to greater consistency in the categorization of activities between the benefit and the tax system. In other words, in future, the benefit system will be more leaning on the concepts and rules of the tax system, which I also think is both common sense, but certainly also a help for the individual. From now on, therefore, only the income on which tax is paid could be used to earn the right to benefit or to calculate a daily allowance rate. In their response to the draft law, the unemployment funds have recommended that the agreed date for the entry into force of the new rules be postponed from 1 July 2018 to 1 October 2018. The unemployment funds have pointed to a number of factors which, according to their assessment, would mean that the unemployment funds would not have the time needed for implementation if the otherwise agreed date of entry into force could apply. The government and the parties to the agreement have listened to this and the draft law has therefore been prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the unemployment funds. With these words, I would like to express my thanks once again for both constructive political negotiations by the many parties which are fads to the model that has now been drawn up, but also for the thorough work which led to the creation of new legislation which takes account of some of the challenges that we are going to face more in the labour market of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170418	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170421	Thank you. After all, I pointed to a few points or, to put it more precisely, four problems in the draft law, and I would like to hear in general whether the Minister is at all open to improving the draft law, for example. in the four areas. I would like to ask you a little more specifically about a point which Mr. Torsten Gejl also had his hands on the danger of a very low rate of unemployment under the new rules. Sir. Torsten Gejl referred to a proposal contained in the consultation answer from the Danish Artist Federation on a different conversion rate. That was one way to do it. Another question is: can it really be true that there should not be a safety net? The rates to be applied here mean that you can lose money. The professional journal 3F has recently documented this with a member who has been losing 5,000 kroner, i.e. going 5,000 DKK. The amount of benefit is reduced per month on the basis of these calculation rules. Does the Minister really think that is fair and is the Minister open to us starting to improve those things by amending this bill on such a point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170531	If I remember that article from the journal 3F right, as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentions that it is based on a bill which is not what we are discussing today. That is what we are discussing, I think, on 6 December, and as Mr Vandemeulebroucke has said. Finn Sørensen already announces to the wider public. We can have that discussion there. I think that the legislative proposal presented here is a clear improvement on how the rules have been so far. Among other things: There are several who are included, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen quite rightly tried to get out of Mr. Finn Sørensen if it wasn't true that more people are being included. That is why we also see that there is fresh money, so to speak, which is being added because there are better rules. So I think it should be welcomed that this is a clear step forward. But you always have to listen if Mr. Finn Sørensen had to have some money in his pocket, like Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen wants to use, and they're funded. Well, then, let's not rule out that mr. Finn Sørensen can come up with something that makes sense. But on standing feet today, I think it's going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170637	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170638	Thank you. If things are going to be very difficult on the stand, I obviously have no hope that even if I could actually bring a bag of money and so much money, it doesn't have to be that removed the deterioration that lies in this bill, it would be accepted. Is that how I should understand the Minister's answer? So I would just like to say that what I am referring to is rules that work and are now being transferred here, and then we might as well start by correcting them here, right? That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170720	I have to sign for that creativity, sir. Finn Sørensen shows, namely to want to discuss another bill on which we will have a consultation on 6 December, into this bill. That's fair enough. But I just have to say to Mr. Simpson... Finn Sørensen, that the bill we are discussing today is a clear improvement on the labour market of the future, and not least that more benefit recipients will benefit from this system. In essence, I think the whole debate here today has illustrated this. There has been a great joy, in fact also a great positivity about it, except from Mr. Finn Sørensen, who unfortunately has thrown himself into a degree of detail which means that you cannot see the big picture, and I am sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170804	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170806	We agree that this proposal is a small improvement. And it might also be that the alternative then intends to look at it mildly when we get to press the buttons. But there are some things that could be improved. So just to be specific: what does the Minister think of the possibility of considering this model of raising the conversion rate slightly, as Finn Sørensen rightly says, is found in the artists' consultation response?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170836	If I thought it would have been a good idea, we would have gone into it, as I said in my speech today in connection with the debate. And that is because you have to see it here in an overall complex, and these are a whole range of different elements that are part of the legislative proposal that we are discussing here today and which is also based on very thorough preparatory work. And that is why I think we should be very careful to start botanising in individual elements. So basically, this is not something I intend to change, because I respect the fact that the full picture gives some far better conditions in the future than those we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170915	There are no more questions. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170932	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123170948	Here we are again. The bourgeois will again, with the support of the Danish People's Party, offer ordinary employees an early payment of their early retirement benefits. This means, of course, that they also have to withdraw from the early retirement scheme and therefore cannot go on early retirement when they reach that age. Then it also means that, and probably not many people think about it, you lose the opportunity to be part of a rather important scheme, the senior job scheme, which actually means that if you become unemployed at a late age, you have an opportunity here, which I know some people who are actually really happy about. You lose that one too. That is to say, if you have to go on early retirement at the age of 65 and you accept the money, you have to work until you are 68 years old. My clear call to people who are listening here, and who are considering accepting this offer, and I understand that there is a majority for it: be careful and think carefully. First of all, you don't know if you can stand to work that long. Not many people know that, and especially if you have a hard, hard work it can be like a slaughterhouse worker, a craftsman, a SOSU assistant and many other professional groups you really have to think well about. Because you lose the opportunity to go on early retirement with what you then have to go through at that time. Secondly, a note from the Minister of Finance shows that it is actually a very, very bad business to take this early retirement money. The figures from the Ministry of Finance show that I can just take one example: a 40-year-old will get DKK 62,000. If he accepts this offer, but if he chooses to retire, he will receive DKK 275,000. If he chooses the tax-free pre-retirement premium, i.e.: To work until he becomes a pensioner, he will receive DKK 70,000. In other words, this is actually the worst business he can do at all. He should wait to take that money if he's just thinking in crowns and ears. At the same time, Payout Denmark warns in their consultation response against rushing through this bill, as they are afraid that it will not be implemented in the optimal way, which will result in a deteriorated citizen experience and as I see it thus a inferior quality in the guidance. In short, we think it would be very unreasonable for most people to accept the money and renounce the opportunity to go on early retirement, both financially and also if they have a job where they are worn out. We care very much that ordinary people are given the good guidance that is required when deciding on something as important as this. I do not think they will, and there are many examples of this. I can see if I look into the legislation to inform everyone who pays pre-retirement contributions that they can get the money paid out, but they are not obliged to tell them about the consequences. They must tell them that they can get the money paid out, but they are not obliged to tell them about the consequences at all. It also says: As to how much can be earned in the tax-free premium, then, the one you can get later on it would not be appropriate to disclose it. I don't know whether to call this a quick loan, or what to call it, but I just want to say that it's a very, very bad business, and to the people who are considering it, I want to say: think carefully, and demand from the a-box and all the others, that this needs to be properly illuminated so that you can see whether you lose on it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171327	I understand that this has not been properly discussed in the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, which means that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen asks for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171338	Thank you. Of course, I fully agree with the rapporteur's comments, but I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees that this is such a self-fulfilling prophecy. First you make the scheme so poor that no young people sign up for it, and then you try with this, after it's gotten so poor, to make a scheme so that people can get out of it. Well, I guess it almost gives itself that that's the way it's gonna go. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that if people are not aware that the consequences of their resignation are that they lose the right to senior jobs and so on, it would be an immensely bad idea to accept this blood money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171420	I would say to everyone who listens to this that I have not actually ordered that question and that it is very, very rare that I disagree with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, and neither am I here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171428	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171431	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good rapporteur's speech, in which, among other things, he said. I think it would be excellent to explain that it is a really bad business that the parties behind this bill will offer in the goose-eyes of the employees. I thought that was good. I did not really hear what the rapporteur's position on the draft law is. Are you going to back it up or are you going to vote against it? Maybe I wasn't paying attention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171508	I do not really remember if I said that, but it is at the bottom of my rapporteur's speech: for these reasons, the Social Democrats are voting against it. So I'm sorry if I forgot to tell you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171517	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171518	Well, I can confirm that the rapporteur forgot. And then I want to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171525	This did not give rise to any response from the rapporteur, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171537	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill provides for tax-free payments to be made in the period from 1 January until 30 June 2018, if that is what you want. This is a bill that we support in the Danish People's Party. We will not prevent anyone from getting their money paid out, if that is what they want, but, having said that, I would also warn people against just saying: I want them paid out. They must, of course, look into their situation, how their future work situation will be. If they are healthy and bodily and expect no problems, they must make sure that they get it calculated financially, that it is good for them to get this money paid out. That's what they have to do. They shouldn't just say, "Well, we want them paid." That's why it's quite fine with what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has said that you have to look into everything. I fully support this, but we will not prevent anyone who wants them to be paid out from going up and saying to the cashier that they want this money to be paid out. I'm sure the a-box will guide them if they ask the a-box. I do not think it is the case that an unemployment fund says that they should not give guidance on what is best for them. If you ask your own box about that thing, they will of course also guide you in this regard. Or maybe you have to talk to your bank. Or maybe you need to talk to your mate if you have one of these in connection with this. But as a starting point we do not believe in the Danish People's Party that, if someone wants them to be paid out, we must prevent them from getting their own money back if that is what they want. But you have to think carefully, it is not something you just do over a comb and say that now you want them paid out. Because if you are a little worn out, or if you are ill, you have the assurance, if you pay in early retirement, that you can also get a senior job afterwards, if that's how you can't do everything or get out of work and can't get a job again. But that is to say, you are worn out and you expect that you probably cannot manage to be on the labour market until retirement age, you should not, of course, go out and withdraw the money. But having said that, I also think that where is the minister? He is sitting over there hiding behind the screen that we have a small problem, which I would ask the Minister to perhaps look at and remedy with an amendment, because I know that there are some who reach the early retirement age before 1 January 2018 and whether they have received early retirement certificates or have not received early retirement certificates, they cannot get the money paid if they reach the early retirement age before 1 January 2018. A great deal of inquiries have been made by some people who want to get them paid out. It is typically self-employed. I do not think we should prevent them from doing so, so I would ask the Minister to be helpful in drawing up an amendment so that if you have reached the retirement age and want to have the money paid before you reach the retirement age, you can also come along. However, it is people's own free choice, and the Minister can then confirm from up here whether it is an option and whether the Minister will help with it. In any case, it is a wish of some that they would like to have them paid before. They are not going to go on early retirement, they will continue to work, perhaps even until after they reach the retirement age, and then they really want them paid now when the opportunity is there. That is what we need to look at. But as a starting point, of course, the Danish People's Party supports this proposal, but we will still warn people against just saying yes without having thought through their situation. Care must be taken to see how your health is, what you can handle, whether it is an advantage for you to get the money paid out or whether you should keep the early retirement and then drive on until you may have to go on early retirement. It is one's own choice and we will not prevent anyone from either. It is people's free choice whether they want to be paid or whether they want to stay in the early retirement scheme. But, of course, we support the draft law and then we hope that we can get an amendment through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171955	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123171959	Thank you. It sounds as if the rapporteur has regretted voting to change the early retirement scheme. For Friday, May 13, 2011, I went to my flat envelopes up in our electoral area in Sæby and heard that the Danish People's Party wanted to change the early retirement scheme so that it has become as we know it today. If it weren't for the Danish People's Party, we wouldn't have had to discuss this at all. In other words, I fully agree with the rapporteur that we need to think very carefully here. But before that I saw the Danish People's Party as the protectors of the weak, and that you would take care of the employees who had had a hard job. And the early retirement scheme is fantastic for the group of people we are talking about here who have the opportunity to retire on early retirement five years early. Now we are creating one system after another so that we can sell out of welfare, and the people who are really worn out are luring to take the money and an extra tax rebate etc. That's what I call blood money. Wouldn't it be better just to keep that early retirement scheme that we have so that the people who are actually worn out could go on early retirement when they needed it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172110	Thank you. Well, it's really nice that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has come down to the hall. I would have been very disappointed if there had been no questions from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. For I also heard him on the radio in P4 Nordjylland, where he said that now the Danish People's Party abolishes the early retirement. That's what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen too, the last time we had a payout. He said that the early retirement has now been abolished and that it no longer exists. But it still exists, and it continues to exist, because it is people's own free choice. And I don't understand that sir. Bjarne Laustsen will tell people: You must not be allowed to get your early retirement, I will make sure you are not; you can get it when you retire or retire. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen is very opposed to people making their own choices and saying that they want the money out. In the Danish People's Party we say that it must be up to people themselves, and we also point out that they must give strong consideration to their situation and whether it is an advantage or not to get them paid. And if people have problems or are sick, I would strongly recommend that they remain in the early retirement scheme. There is no doubt about that. But no, we are not abolishing the early retirement scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172217	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172218	The consequence and sum of the actions you have taken is the de facto abolition of the early retirement scheme. Because nobody trusts that no one will come behind and tamper with the scheme. That's why the young people don't sign up, and that's why there's no new ones coming in. Now, with this bill, you're trying to lure the last of them out of the scheme. That's the whole point. And if you have the money at all, the 5 billion. kr., if everyone asks to get the money out? So I think it's a really bad idea to sell out of welfare, and I think you should never have had the chance to do that. Now there's an opportunity to pull out the money, and that means that these groups can all get into trouble in the last part of their working life. And that's where I ask you to think very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172301	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172304	Thank you. After all, I agree with Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen in that people have to think well before making a decision. That's what I said last time there was a payout option. But I have a different approach to it than Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. He wants people to be forced to stay in a system they might want to resign from. In the Danish People's Party we say that it is people's choice. Of course, if you do not want to be in that arrangement, you must also have the opportunity to resign. But Mr. Bjarne Laustsen does not, for he says: I am the one who decides whether you should be in the early retirement scheme; you may not choose whether you want your money paid out, I will decide that. And in the Danish People's Party we say the opposite, namely that it determines the individual himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172339	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172341	I just have to say that it is typically the Danish People's Party that they stand up there and want it all, but then they help to do something that, for me, is completely stupid. The draft law states that the unemployment fund is obliged to provide individual guidance on the consequences only if requested. And it says later that in terms of how much can be earned in tax-free premiums, it would not be appropriate to disclose it. So you should not tell people how much they can get in prize later, because you can risk losing money on it. Now the rapporteur says, sir. Bent Bøgsted, you have to think very carefully. Sir. Bent Bøgsted also says that he has a few amendments that he would like to see through. Will Mr. Bent Bøgsted then propose to have these things changed? And if sir... Bent Bøgsted does not want it, I think that what he stands up and says from the platform today is reasonably empty and reasonably hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172437	I'd like to say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that the cashiers must of course inform us that the money can be paid out. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen in the Chamber and says that if one of the members of the cashier is addressing his advisor in the cashier's account, then the employee of the cashier cannot tell us what the consequences are. As I understand it, it is the information that comes out to Members that they have the opportunity to know. There is nothing else for them to say, but if an employee goes up to his bank after they have received the letter and asks what the situation is with regard to his early retirement, and whether it is an advantage for him or her or not, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen saw that the employee of the cashier stands and says to him: No, I will not advise you, because I am not allowed to do so under the law? I simply do not believe that. One thing is the information which is sent out by letter to the pre-retirement workers that they have the opportunity to receive the payment. Another thing is, if they then afterwards ask their cashier if they can guide them on what is best, and there I think the cashier says: Of course we will guide you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172552	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172555	The rapporteur is quite right that it does not say so, but I can only hear that Mr. Bent Bøgsted wants everyone to get smarter and think well. Will Mr. Bent Bøgsted then did not make a proposal to the Minister because I cannot, since I am not a part of it, but it is Mr. Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted, who has voted for this, is obliging the cashiers to tell us about these consequences, so we're sure these people know what this is all about; so we're sure they know they're gonna lose money on it? Will Mr. Bent Bøgsted make sure that they are given that duty?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172629	Well, it may be that we need to get an A-box and hear about it, because as far as I know, the A-boxes are there to guide their members. If they are asked about a specific problem, the cashiers guide their members, and they do so about early retirement, and when people ask whether it is an advantage for them to get into the early retirement scheme or not; there they also guide their members if they ask about it. And if someone goes upstairs and asks the a-box if they can't help with what's best for them, then they'll do it. Surely it is not necessary to legislate that they have a duty to do so, because that is what they are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172709	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172710	Yes, thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for the answers to the other rapporteurs. I just think it is extremely contradictory that, on the one hand, you want to support a bill and, on the other hand, you almost haven't had it said before you say: but, oh, people really have to think well before they accept this offer. And when, in his speech, the rapporteur actually referred to Mr Gundelach's speech, I would like to point out that he is not a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, but a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities of the European Parliament. Leif Lahn Jensen's good explanation of why this is a bad business is extremely It may well have a slight suspicion that there is some convict in this in order to get the last of them to resign from the early retirement scheme, but I would hate to go around with such a suspicion of the rapporteur. That suspicion could then be put to rest if the rapporteur from the platform says: yes, I will ensure that the Minister is given great publicity and, in any other way possible, to inform the beneficiaries and the public that this is a really bad business, and this can be done by passing on the figures of the Finance Minister. So will the rapporteur contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172820	Well, I don't have to decide if the individual thinks it's a bad business or not... it's something they find out for themselves. Of course, if you have not paid up for such a long time, you will not receive as much as if you have paid up until 60, that is clear. In other words, someone who is 40 years old and is considering getting the money paid has not paid so much, it is clear. Then it's a better business if you wait until you're 60, because then you've paid more, and you get higher business and something like that. That's the way it's always going to be, and Mr. Cole knows that. Finn Sørensen very well it is a matter of how much you have paid. But we in the Danish People's Party will not prevent people who say: we want our own money paid out, and we want that now when the opportunity is there. Then I just say that, in terms of their health and how they feel when they have reached the age of early retirement, they must consider very carefully whether they can manage to be on the labour market and that is something they should investigate. They should not just ask for the money to be paid out and then say: hey, I'm sick, I can't be on the labour market anyway; or: I'm gonna lose my job, so I'm gonna have a senior job. This must be considered, and there is nothing wrong with saying that people have to look into matters before they make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172929	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123172931	Unfortunately, I have to say that the rapporteur did not have my little one removed, but, I think, growing suspicion that this is a once-in-a-lifetime convict. Because if we really wanted to ensure proper information about the consequences of accepting this, we would be doing everything possible to ensure that as many cashiers as possible were informed about the calculation made by the Ministry of Finance. So I am just sorry that the rapporteur does not want to contribute to that information, but just like dismissing the responsibility and saying that the individual has to find out, and the cashiers have to tell us about that. I think that's a real shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173013	It is by no means everyone who wants them to be paid out. I shall not put any figures on how many people want them to be paid. The figures in it are a guess, and there is no one who can say in advance whether they all want them paid out. It is just such an estimate that has been made on the basis of what it looked like last time, and then it is estimated that it is probably that number. But it's up to the individual himself to find out if it's a good business, because it has something to do with your relationship, that is, how you feel about your health and all that. However, to have to go out and guide everyone on what their situation with regard to early retirement is like, I think, is going too far. If you choose to get the money paid out, you must of course seek the guidance you need from your insurance fund, your trade union, your bank advisor, or where it may be, if it has anything to do with the economy I do not have to decide where they get information about what is best for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173110	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mr. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173118	Thank you. For the Left, it is important that we ensure the future of our welfare, that we do not lean back when things are going well in Denmark, but think about what we should live on tomorrow. It's really about accountability. As you know, the other rapporteurs have explained the details of the proposal, so I just need to clarify the position of the Left on this proposal for the payment of pre-retirement and flexible contributions. We live healthier, longer, and more healthy than ever before. We are staying longer on the labour market. This is a really positive development. It is actually so positive that it exceeds all expectations. An analysis from Danish Industry shows that the number of employees who have reached the age of 60 has increased by 39,000 in the period from 2013 to 2016, and in particular the unskilled elderly remain in the labour market. In 2016, there were 14,000 more unskilled employees aged 60 or over compared to 2013. This is a welcome development which we must reinforce and extend. Here, the Left sees the payment of pre-retirement contributions and flexitime contributions as a very good tool. This creates an incentive for even more seniors to keep pulling the work clothes. This bill estimates that approx. 50,000 people in 2018 will withdraw from the early retirement scheme and 725 people from the flexitime benefit scheme as a result of the possibility of receiving tax-free payments of early retirement and flexitime contributions respectively. These are smart heads and routine hands that companies need right now, and companies across the country are also warning about bottlenecks ahead. We have to listen to that and we have to answer that. It is absolutely essential that we can maintain a high level of welfare. That is why we are reading the bill with the positive glasses on it, because we all win that those who can stay a little longer on the labour market. We encourage this when we provide good conditions for postponing the pension a little longer. For us, it is crucial that our children and grandchildren can grow up in a world-class welfare society. This requires us to take the right initiatives now, and in the Left we see this proposal as an important and valuable initiative. Longer life and better health mean that more people delay their withdrawal from the labour market. That development must be reinforced and extended so that we can also afford welfare tomorrow. That is why we support giving an economic pat on the shoulders of those who opt out of the early retirement and flexible pay system and take an extra job. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately cannot be here today, and to say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173418	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173422	Thank you. All the talk about staying longer in the labour market is good enough. But then what I would like to ask is two factual questions. Why is it that those who are on flex jobs have to continue if they want to join the scheme here? Why do they have to pay 5 years more than all the others? They have to. I'm just asking why. If you want to continue as flex jobs over the 65 years, how can you not continue as the rules are today? Would it not be better to concentrate on all the places where there are barriers and ensure that people can actually stay in the labour market if that is what they want, now that you are saying a lot of plus words about it, but there are still restrictions? Wouldn't it be better to get to where there really was something to come for?
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173510	It is true that in the agreement in several years' time on the labour market there is nothing about flexible contributions and the possibility of receiving them, but we have subsequently agreed between the parties that it should be possible for them to also receive their paid contributions in cash and tax-free. And then we are quite fundamental here in a discussion about whether we trust that individual people can make decisions on an enlightened basis and that we say that it must be the individual concerned, that is to say whether you want to receive your early retirement or flexible contributions here and now, or whether you want to retain the rights that come with it. There we in the Left trust that people can decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173609	Did Mr. Bjarne Laustsen a follow-up question, so can he press the button? That applies to everyone, by the way. But here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173615	Excuse me, sir. President. I hope it does not go from speaking time. However, the rapporteur says that this must be done on an enlightened basis. But when I ask two factual questions, there is no answer. I ask specifically why flex workers have to pay 5 years more than everyone else if they want to be in the scheme. When you get your pre-retirement certificate, the payment to the early retirement scheme stops. That doesn't apply to the others. I ask why. The second is: why can the flexists who want to continue after 65 years of age not be allowed to do so? We try to do that for all sorts of other groups, but here you have to stop when you reach your retirement age. I would like to know why, and if it were not better to take action here when people want to continue in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173701	I just need to get this straight. Is it true that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is now putting forward proposals to change the reform, the early and flexible job reform that we have done together, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment, that is to say that we must be able to continue on flex jobs, even if we have thus reached the age of retirement? I just have to understand this, because it is a completely new proposal which, if it is to be financed, must be discussed in the conciliation circle, because that is what I am supposed to see, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen now proposes, seriously and constructively. But I just have to understand, because there has to be funding for that. You can't just stand in the Parliament hall and make some clever little statements. I just need to understand if it's serious. Now, sir. Bjarne Laustsen does not have the opportunity to reply, but then we will have to take it up later and follow it up, because there was a concrete proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173805	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123173822	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is an exceptionally bad idea to encourage cashiers and flex workers to withdraw from the early retirement scheme or the flexitime scheme. There is no need to offer the employees and the cashiers a really bad business, as the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned. One cannot rule out that there are many who will accept the offer, just as it happened in 2012, because it may be nice or directly necessary to get a sum of money paid out here and now, especially in these times, when many low-paid people have real difficulty in getting the money to strike. So what you are really doing with a bill like this here is tempting those who are in pain in the economy, and in many cases it will be most, I think, the group most in need of the early retirement scheme. But it may soon turn out that in the long term, if you accept this so-called offer, it can be expensive for the individual cashier. Many people are unable to work until they reach the age of retirement, and then, without the insurance for dependents, they are up to retirement age, which is paid after the age of retirement. If they lose their jobs before their early retirement, they will not be able to have a senior job either. If they are healthy enough to work until they can retire, they will miss out on the tax-free premium, which is considerably higher than the pre-retirement contribution they can receive here and now. But the thing is that the government and the Danish People's Party will ensure that the lowest possible pay is paid as a way out. That is in the interests of employers, because then there will have to be even more people thanking for any job at any salary in order to survive. Therefore this, now second, attempt to get as many as possible to withdraw from the scheme together with the other deteriorations that have occurred to it. After all, the problem I am describing here is a problem which will only increase as the retirement age is continually increased, of which the same parties are warm supporters, and which, with the principles of the scheme of raising retirement age, means that people aged 30 today have to wait until they are 721⁄2 years old and that young people aged 18 have to wait until they are 74 years old. On top of this, apparently, the government will repeat the mistake that happened in 2012. In the Order on Capital Pensions, etc. It is written that it will be written that the municipality must disregard the extraordinary payments of pre-retirement and flexitime contributions on more favourable terms paid to persons who receive integration benefits, cash benefits or educational assistance at the same time. This, of course, sounds very good, but that wording meant that more people were caught up in 2012 because the municipalities had only to disregard the pre-retirement contribution paid when it was paid while receiving cash benefits. However, if you had received the pre-retirement allowance before going to cash benefits, it was a fortune which the municipality could not ignore and which had to be eaten up before cash benefits could be paid. In 2012, there were examples of citizens who received sickness benefit at the time of payment of the pre-retirement allowance, and when sickness benefits stopped and had to be transferred to cash benefits, they could not receive cash benefits because they had a fortune to be eaten up first, a fortune arising from the payment of the early retirement allowance. The least you can do when you make such a proposal is to make sure that that error does not happen again. But, as we read the bill, you add up that mistake you want to make again. We will find out in the next reading. The Enhedslisten will vote against the bill, but should we be able to improve the legislative proposal on the point I have mentioned, we will of course be glad that we have contributed to it. But that doesn't change our basic attitude. So that's our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174231	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174239	Thank you for that, President. With Bill No. L 89 payments to the early retirement scheme can be paid in cash and tax-free in the first half of 2018. I do not know whether it is a tale or whether it is actually true that at the Institute of Political Science the early retirement scheme is used as an example of legislation which, firstly, does not work according to the original intention and, secondly, has since grown beyond all predictions made at the time and which, thirdly, has ended up becoming more sacred than a sacred cow for those parties which originally helped to adopt the system. It may be a tale, but when it continues to be pending, it is enough because it also fits in very well with reality. The early retirement scheme dates back to the late 1970s, and it is as beautiful as other things from that period. The expression that comes to mind is probably more rare than sex. It is no longer and it should not be a social event to be 65 or 70 years old. That is why it is very sensible to set up legislation as if it were not a social event, and that is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174405	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174411	Thank you. This proposal seems to have been made because it is expected that in the long term there will be very great demand for labour on the labour market, and that is a good offer, but we do not really know that. We know that there will be a huge, huge change in the labour market over the next 5, 10, 15 years. We know that we are going to lose perhaps 500 000 • perhaps more posts that we know and that we need to restore a large number of jobs if we are not to run into a whole lot of unemployment. So there is a very, very turbulent time ahead of us in terms of robotisation and digitisation. I think it's hard to be very clear about how it's going to end. Some believe that we are getting huge demand for labour, others believe that we can make society run around without all of us having to work. So the fact that we're absolutely sure we just have to work a lot more harder in the future and have to get even further into the hamster wheel, we don't really think anyone can say clearly. As far as this proposal is concerned, in the alternative, we very much note that it is a voluntary scheme. It has a lot of consequences for those who might say yes to this, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has mentioned most; it has been explained quite well. You can lose the opportunity to go early on early on early on, and it can also become a really, really bad business, this. So it can be bad for some, it may even be bad for many, but can it be good for some? Is there anyone who can actually take very much advantage of this? It's hard to say. But one of the things we like about this proposal here is that it is voluntary. And I think Danes are really, really good at assessing what to do with their money when they are just as quietly becoming seniors. In the alternative, we both like people being allowed to assess things themselves and the seniors being given the opportunity to choose for themselves in relation to their working lives. So in the alternative, we are not so sceptical about this proposal. We could actually vote yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174640	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174653	Thank you. In fact, the Radical Left made this proposal some time ago. It is therefore only a pleasure for us that the government later agreed with itself to make this proposal and also agreed with the Danish People's Party. It's too bad we weren't invited. However, this proposal makes very good sense at a time when we urgently need workers that people who want and choose it for themselves will be a little longer on the labour market and will be able to get their early retirement tax-free from, of course, giving up their entitlement to early retirement. It is a fine carrot, which hopefully will mean more skilled seniors in the labour market. We need that. From our perspective, this is not enough in relation to the challenges we face, namely labour shortages. But it is a good, radical proposal, and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174805	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174813	The warning lights are flashing at this bill. This is another attack on the early retirement scheme, but this time just in a more sneaky way. Of course, it sounds so tempting to offer the workers a handful of money here and now, but that is the kind of offer it is very expensive to accept. Why, though, should we on the part of the Folketing entice people who are perhaps now short of money to cheat themselves in the longer term? The debt trap is a horror show on TV, and we are not going to lure people out on thin ice here in Parliament. SF is against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174900	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123174909	Thank you. I would also like to start the examination of this bill by thanking you for the support given to the draft law, but of course I also note that there are parties against the bill, which cannot necessarily come as the big surprise. It is well known that life expectancy in Denmark is increasing. It is a very good message to be able to deliver here today. This applies both to unskilled, skilled and persons with higher education. At the same time, there are several seniors who assess their health as well, and among seniors employment has also increased. The increase is also broadly based across training groups. As I said, it's nice to have a longer life and better health. We want to give more favourable conditions to those who wish to postpone their withdrawal from the labour market to remain part of the working community. That is why the government made the agreement, which is called "Advisement for several years on the labour market," and this bill also forms part of it, together with the Danish People's Party before the summer holidays. The draft law allows persons with paid pre-retirement contributions and flexitime contributions to opt out of the pre-retirement or flexitime benefits scheme and to obtain cash and tax-free contributions instead in 2018. It will be possible to apply in the first half of 2018. The possibility of tax-free payments in 2018 is organised according to the same principles as applied to the possibility of cash and tax-free payments in 2012. And there is perhaps a little worth noting the word 2012 because there was then another government of which I was not a part, but which was a social democratic government; I say that because there was, of course, a major discussion during this debate about whether we should do something more than what has been proposed, and there I have to say that we follow what the previous government did in 2012. Because it is important that those who choose to withdraw from the early retirement scheme and the flexibility system are aware of the consequences that this will have for the future. The unemployment funds and payments Denmark will therefore be required to inform the persons who have the possibility of cash and tax-free payments about the consequences of the opt-out. Several others have mentioned this, but it is of course also important to mention it here today, that it should of course also be clarified. And I'll take note of that, sir. Bent Bøgsted would like to discuss the possibility of an amendment in committee. I would, of course, like to welcome that and say that we must try to see how it can be accommodated in the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175150	There are no requests for short remarks, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175210	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur on the floor is Mr Cryer. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175223	In December 2013, the then Social Democratic Minister for Employment made a new sickness benefit reform, which in many ways was better than the reform it replaced. One of the things we changed was that it was absolutely necessary to change, because before the change we heard stories about cancer-stricken people who were hunted through the employment system to ensure that they were available on the labour market or to get them going. That was totally wrong, and I think we all think so, because what you need, if you get seriously ill, is of course quiet to get well and, together with your family, to be able to concentrate on this. Therefore, it was also very good that Mette Frederiksen had an experimental scheme carried out where these people did not have to go through all that, but could keep their sickness benefit and get the tranquillity that is necessary for people in such a difficult situation. The experiment ends here at the end of the year and therefore it is necessary either to continue the experiment or to make the scheme permanent. That is why I am also delighted that I am now looking down at the Minister; he must also be commended once in a while that the Minister takes it up again and proposes to make the arrangement that Mette Frederiksen made permanent. Although we will do everything we can to help sick people to work as quickly as possible and to help them through the difficult times, there are also just people who need to be calm. That is why we support the proposal and are extremely pleased that we in the conciliation circle could also agree on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175352	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175357	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief. This is a possibility for those who are seriously ill, for example. cancer. It was introduced as an experimental scheme to extend sickness benefit if you had a serious illness. The scheme has been running for a trial period, and now it is being made permanent, so it will always be the case that if you are seriously ill you will be granted an extension of sickness benefit on that basis. This is a very good thing, and of course the Danish People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175434	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175439	Thank you. As I have said, the draft law we are discussing here today must make the temporary scheme permanent, that is, the system of entitlement to sickness benefit in the event of life-threatening serious illness. As I have said, the law provides for an extension of the right to sickness benefit for persons with life-threatening illness. As a follow-up to the sickness benefit reform, the parties to the agreement have decided that persons with serious, life-threatening illness may be entitled to sickness benefit instead of resource progression benefit. It is important for the Left that people with serious life-threatening illness have the opportunity to spend time and energy on recovery, instead of being referred to job clearance processes with associated resource progression performance. Our benefit system must support proper treatment in the event of serious illness, rather than meeting citizens with the expectation that they will make themselves useful in the labour market. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law entitles persons who have been on sick leave and who fulfil the employment requirement against the municipality to sickness benefit from the municipality, regardless of whether the person on the first day of absence has received sickness benefit for a period of more than 22 weeks within the previous nine months. We are thus creating greater flexibility for citizens with serious, life-threatening illness and giving them better opportunities to return healthy to the labour market. I am pleased that the draft law here today creates good conditions for seriously ill people, while supporting the opportunity to return quickly and easily to the labour market. Against this background, the Left can support the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175621	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175633	Thank you. This suggests that the day can end in joy and glamour, I think, by the fact that the whole parliament supports this bill, including the Enhedslisten. It is, of course, positive that in this way a better life will be possible, even if very few people are concerned with it, it can be calculated on the basis of the economy and that they are provided with security in the last few days. However, I would like to draw attention to the response from Danish Handicap organisations, because they point out that we do not make it all the way to ensuring the necessary calm and stability for people affected by very serious illness. There will still be citizens whose entitlement to sickness benefit will not be extended even if they actually meet the criterion of serious, life-threatening illness laid down in the bill. This is due to the fact that you have to see it in the context of the tightening up of, what should you say, the period for receiving sickness benefit, which, as a rule, has been reduced to 22 weeks from 52 weeks. The very tight deadline means that there will be situations where citizens are simply not officially resolved, even if they suffer from serious and often chronic or progressive diseases, as is said in a fine word, when you suffer from a disease which only worsens your condition. It can be sclerosis, epilepsy, arthritis, or brain damage to name a few. Perhaps the diagnosis has only been made, and if the treatment has begun at all, the effects of it are not yet known. And for that group of citizens, although they suffer from a disease which medical science clearly says they will only get worse, they cannot benefit from such an extension of sickness benefits. It is also a problem for many citizens who have a serious but not directly life-threatening disease, for example. persons with serious mental disorders. These people cannot be granted an extension of their entitlement to sickness benefit under this paragraph, and this is despite the fact that the diseases are serious with major disability and that the diseases often deteriorate significantly over a shorter or longer period of time. So it could just be so nice if, along with this bill, there came a recognition that we are still far from the goal when it comes to ensuring financial security for citizens suffering from these kinds of diseases. But it is clear that this is a small but clear improvement for some people in a very difficult situation, and we then support it, and then Enhedslisten is delighted that it should not at the same time be seasoned with some deterioration in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175923	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123175931	As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, Bill L 90 is a legislative proposal which greatly improves the way in which people with life-threatening diseases are treated. It is, of course, a good thing that we are learning from experience and from the criticisms that exist, so that the system, which has been temporary, is now made permanent. Of course, we support this in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180006	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180009	Thank you very much. The alternative supports this proposal that people with a life-threatening illness should be able to have a permanent extension of their period of sickness benefit instead of having to go through a process of resource or job clearance. I'd say that was all that was missing. We have an early retirement and flexible job reform that is already going very hard on the sick and injured people in this society. That reform will soon have to be evaluated, and I hope that hope and improvement will be created for the incredibly many sickly vulnerable Danes who cannot get their early retirement. In the meantime, of course, we would like to improve the situation of those on sickness benefit who have a life-threatening illness. So the alternative is in favour of this proposal, although I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen, in that one could of course go much further to improve the conditions of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180106	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180121	Thank you. We can also warmly support this bill in the Radical Left. It is a very good idea that people who have a life-threatening or serious illness should have access to sickness benefit and that it is not a temporary scheme anymore, but that we should make it permanent. Unfortunately, there have been individual cases, and we should have taken care of this, and I think that we have taken responsibility for it widely in the conciliation circle, so that it does not happen, even if you are in a job clearance or on a resource progression and then suffer from a serious, life-threatening illness. It is, of course, so serious that we need the necessary support, so we also warmly support this from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180223	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180230	The sickness benefit reform was necessary when it was implemented, but there were also large gaps in it. One of those holes is now being covered, and it is high time. Of course, people with a life-threatening illness must have security about their financial situation when they are at the end of life. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180253	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have come to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180300	Thank you for that and thank you for the many positive comments on the L 90 bill that we are discussing here. I am sincerely pleased that the parties involved in the sickness benefit reform have decided to make the system of entitlement to sickness benefit for life-threatening serious illness permanent. With the bill, the current system continues. This means that a person receiving a life-threatening serious illness is entitled to sickness benefit from the municipality, even if the person on the first day of absence has already exhausted the entitlement to sickness benefit. It is a condition that the employment requirement is met with regard to the municipality. The same applies to those people who have already been transferred to work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related work-related This draft law does not alter what has been in force under the temporary arrangement. So in every way I think this is a really fine proposal which rounds up a long debate on employment in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180403	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171123180418	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 24 November 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
