ParlaMint-DK_20170420100024	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Marie Krarup (DF) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 30 to the Foreign Minister on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The question has now been dropped. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 189 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 150 SamuelsenProposal for a Parliament resolution on a Danish military contribution to NATO's advanced presence in the Baltic and Poland). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100110	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 74 by Thomas Danielsen (V), Carsten Bach (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 33 (V, LA and KF) voted against 76 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 74 has been rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 75 by Christian Poll (ALT), Jens Joel (S), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Sanne Bjørn (RV) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 75 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 73 by Mikkel Dencker (DF) and can be voted. The vote is over. In favour of 24 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 73 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100339	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 77 by Susanne Eilersen (DF), Jacob Jensen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). Has everyone voted? Now I think everyone has voted. The vote is over. In favour 57 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 77 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 76 by Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF), Benny Engelbrecht (S), Pelle Dragsted (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Kristian Hegaard (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100506	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100522	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100616	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100645	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100712	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100741	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100758	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100829	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100847	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (S, EL, ALT and RV) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2 submitted and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4-13, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420100959	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101022	I have promised to explain our position at second reading because it has been a legislative proposal that we have seen both good and bad things about. The government also assures that raising loan limits for summer homes is risk-free. For us, however, it has weighed more heavily on the fact that the National Bank warns very seriously against it in its response to the consultation and warns against the risk of damage to the stability of the mortgage and housing markets. So it is not so many years ago that the National Bank and others warned against easing the mortgage market. Against this background, we shall not be voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101107	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101126	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101157	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101218	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 5, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101354	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101410	Thank you. Some new changes have been proposed in relation to this law, so we want to get the matter back in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101431	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101436	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 7-9, elected by the committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101509	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101527	Thank you. I just want to sign up to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for the fact that I think we have had a good process. We have a common goal for more children to have a fair chance, and we have got the Minister and the entire government to accept an amendment to the draft law that guarantees that very thing I have no doubt about. So I would like to sign that we have used the committee work to become wiser along the way. Social democracy would like us to go even further, so that we not only track down the children in the past, when they may need some extra help, but that we actually look at it more widely than in the language • that we look at their general development and that we develop some definite tests to do so so that the municipalities have the best possible tools. But in the first place a receipt to the Minister and the government in relation to having listened and in relation to having improved what I think will be a good effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101622	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 1 - Amendment No 2 Amendment No 2 was adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten). Amendment No 3 was accepted by the committee, or Amendment No 3 was accepted by the committee. 4, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (Danish People's Party). The vote is over. In favour 23 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 and 7 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101739	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 April 2017. I'm gonna need some quiet in the hall. We shall wait with the rapporteur until there is more silence. Then we can start with Mrs Liselott Blixt, who is the rapporteur for the questioners, for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420101922	Dementia is a terrible disease which already affects many thousands of Danes today, and it is expected that it will affect even more in the coming years. It was therefore also gratifying that the Danish People's Party, together with the government and the gamble pool parties, agreed to allocate 470 million. kr. for the period 2016-2019 for initiatives in the National Dementia Action Plan. However, that is not good enough. Money was put off in health care for investigation, treatment, family work and networks, but many of the other challenges relating to the demented were not addressed. The reason for this query is the increasing problem with younger people with dementia being sent in work testing, job training and resource development. The problem is two-sided. Firstly, it slows down the granting of early retirement pensions, which is a huge problem for many, as they have often gone out of the labour market before investigation and diagnosis and are therefore financially under pressure. Secondly, the dementia patient is at risk of becoming even more ill, as the stress that it is to try hard with a job actually affects the course of illness in a negative way. We do not think that is right, and that is why we hope that the Minister will ensure that people affected by dementia do not face additional challenges because of their illness. I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420102109	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Employment for a reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420102120	Thank you. And thank you for the motivation from the Danish People's Party in relation to the question that we have here today in Parliament. After all, it is a question debate about people who are diagnosed with dementia and about the efforts that stem from the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. The Danish People's Party wants answers to how I, as a minister, want to ensure that people with dementia do not have to go through job clearance courses, resource processes or other offers. Let me start by saying that it is my clear conviction that it is not certain diagnoses that should dictate what should be put into effect and what should not be put into effect. I believe that we should always be based on the individual citizen. This is the foundation stone and the basic essence of the whole employment effort. So what I want to ensure is that no one, regardless of diagnosis, will have to go through resource sequences if it does not help to develop their ability to work. So we must not set up internships that do not develop people, but instead are seen as degrading and meaningless. On the other hand, I do not think it would be sensible to write off everyone with a dementia diagnosis, for example. the possibility of a flex job. But let me start somewhere else, because first of all I would like to take this opportunity to say that the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has basically been and is right. The conciliation circle also agrees on this. The reform supports the support of as many people as possible to achieve or maintain links with the labour market, and we can also see that very fortunately works as intended. But let me also say quite clearly today that it is no secret that there have been examples of flows of resources that have not been of benefit to the citizens. That is why I am glad that this issue is being addressed. This is a good opportunity to clarify what the purpose of resource development is and also to say what it is that we have set in motion to ensure it. After all, as most people know, the circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has just reached agreement on a new package of initiatives which strengthens the municipalities' work on resource development. The initiative package includes, among other things: a new letter of orientation stating that active action must help citizens closer to the labour market and that, of course, action must never exacerbate the health of citizens. It has, of course, been a major theme in the few months I have been Minister for Employment in up to several consultations where I have received that question from both Enhedslisten's Mr. Finn Sørensen, but also from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted. We are also being made clear that the municipalities should not set up business practices with the aim of documenting what the citizen does not document does not mean that everything has to be tested in practice. Pre-retirement pensions are granted on the basis of a health assessment of the overall situation of citizens, including medical evidence in the case. I very much hope that these clarifications will help to clarify this issue, because it is, after all, absolutely the alpha and the omega that the efforts made in the process of resource development make sense and thus also develop the citizen. If it is pointless to take active action, the citizen must, of course, have an early retirement pension. I would also like to point out that last year the conciliation circle amended the legislation so that municipalities can grant early retirement to citizens more quickly and more easily, where it is obvious that there is no labour market perspective. The rehabilitation team should no longer be involved in these cases. This is precisely what we did to ensure that you do not have to wait longer than is necessary to get your early retirement when there is no other option. At the same time, I would also like to stress today that it is absolutely essential that we have an employment system that makes sense and in which it is always the needs and opportunities of the individual citizen that form the basis for what is being put into effect. That is why I do not believe that it is a viable way of allowing certain diagnoses to dictate what should be done and what should not be done. As I have mentioned a few times, I think that the effort should always be based on the individual citizen and therefore also on the needs of the individual citizen. Two people with the same diagnosis can have very different processes and challenges, and this also applies to dementia. Some citizens are diagnosed with dementia at an early stage, so that drugs can be used which can help delay development and where there can still be potential in a labour market perspective. It may perhaps make sense here to engage in an employment-oriented approach which, of course, must be organised in the light of the individual's wishes and needs and resources. It can, for example, be done. be a flex job. I also think that the question gives rise to a reminder that a broad majority in the Folketing has basically strengthened and created a much better interdisciplinary effort for vulnerable citizens. We have done so because we want as many people as possible to become part of the working community. All municipalities now have a multi-disciplinary rehabilitation team dealing with cases where there is a need for more than just an employment-oriented effort. Clinical functions have also been established to ensure that municipalities can obtain qualified health professional advice and guidance in the more complex cases. In addition, there has been much better opportunity to create flex jobs for people who have more extensive spare needs. It has also become possible to continue in flexible jobs even if the ability to work gradually deteriorates. All in all, therefore, there have been better opportunities to provide the necessary support for people who are facing major challenges, such as: difficult illness, which makes it impossible for them to have a working life after all. From this point of view too, I think it makes sense that it is the individual's specific situation and ability to work that constitute the compass of what needs to be put into effect and not necessarily a particular diagnosis. However, I would also like to reiterate and make it clear that it is, of course, a precondition that active action can help the individual citizen closer to the labour market. If, on the other hand, the ability to work is permanently and substantially reduced, an early retirement must of course be granted. Finally, let me stress that the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs must be evaluated in the course of 2017. The whole reform must be highlighted from all the leaders and edges, and we will look at resource developments in particular carefully. There is no doubt that resource development has the full attention of the entire conciliation circle, because the effort of resource development must make sense. If the evaluation shows that there are still too many examples of the failure to make any sense, then of course we will also have a political debate on it in the conciliation circle. And, of course, I also invite all the parties of the Folketing to take part in the evaluation which will now take place here during 2017. I am also quite convinced that we will have ample opportunity to discuss this in the Employment Committee, perhaps also in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and, I hope, also here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420102910	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420102929	Thank you very much and thank you very much to the Minister for your reply. But I think it is a little easy for a government to go out and look out for a national action plan for people with dementia, and then you will not do anything for those people, because it is a rather special disease. I think it is very easy to say that it is individual, and if it is discovered at an early stage, you can get medicine yes, the average life expectancy is approx. Seven years from the time the disease is discovered. When the speech usually falls on people with dementia, we often think of elderly people who have retired and where the biggest challenge is care. The reality is that more and more younger people are being affected by dementia. At least 1,500 people under the age of 65 have been diagnosed with dementia. However, there must be reservations about dark figures, as not all younger people have been diagnosed with dementia. It takes a very long time to get it, so you are actually really sick when you get the diagnosis. In the Danish People's Party we are also very pleased with the national action plan. We are just wondering why we are not looking at all the other challenges that are in other ministries. What is the use of rapid investigation, better treatment and increased competence and family work if the person with dementia is to be dragged through a system just for the sake of the system? I discovered the challenge in this area when I saw a DR documentary broadcast. The main character tells us that he is in resource sequences and that he cannot concentrate at all, because his thoughts are on what should happen to his family. They were to move to a place where he could live, where he could live with his illness with his family. He became more and more stressed and actually became more and more ill. There was also a story about a woman with dementia who was in a wheelchair and who had time to die before she got her early retirement. These are the stories we hear every day. I contacted the Alzheimer's Association to ask if this is a common problem. I'm afraid it is. The Alzheimer's Association is experiencing an increasing problem of sending younger people with dementia into work testing, job training and resource development by their municipality. And as I said at the outset, it is a two-sided problem. Firstly, the granting of early retirement is delayed, which is a huge problem for many people, as they are getting out of the labour market because of diagnosis, and some believe that it is stress and so on. Secondly, every time they are in the work test, it is a failure and they are becoming increasingly ill by it. You will also receive more inquiries on the Dementia line about problems than you have in the past. They receive inquiries from worried dementia consultants in the municipalities and from professionals in the investigation units. I spoke to a family member yesterday I asked the Alzheimer's Association if they knew some people with these diseases, and they actually knew a lot of people who could tell what it looks like for many of the younger people affected by dementia. Her friend's story is a typical example of what it looks like. A 52-year-old woman gets hit and gets diagnosed with dementia. Fortunately, her friend is a social worker and therefore knows the rules. So not everyone is as lucky. After an extension of her sickness benefit by 26 weeks extra, she received a standard letter that she should find out how she could get back into the labour market, knowing that she had diagnosed dementia and an average life span of 7 years back. It has to be said here that he himself was very unrealistic about her ability to continue working as a teacher as well. After she lost her first job, she got a flex job in a forest nursery where she knew the children. That must be fatal. Because of her good social worker friend, she was awarded a pension, and thus she was also able to receive her own pension, which she has saved up for through her working life. You can't figure that out either. At the age of 52 you have to go through a lot of resource development and clarification when you have an average of seven years to live, and then you cannot get paid the pension that you have earned and saved up for you at least not. This social worker who works in Hvidovre Municipality could tell about a handful of people sitting in just Hvidovre Municipality who have gone from house to home with the diagnosis of dementia. We simply cannot be familiar with this. Then we can look up that we can make a good national action plan for demente, but what the hell will it do if we do not help where it hurts? That is why, of course, we in the Danish People's Party want you to be able to obtain an early retirement pension when you have a dementia diagnosis if that is what you need. Of course, we must also ensure that, if you want to remain in the labour market, you can get help with this. But today it's just not the way you do it. It may be that the minister thinks and says that several ministers have said that they are not going to work if they are too sick, but then do something about the municipalities that keep doing it. We have a proposal for adoption supported by Dansk Folkeparti, Enhedslisten and Alternativet: Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament requires the government to ensure that people with diagnosis dementia should not be sent in job clearance or resource progressions against their will. The Folketing also wants people with dementia who want to remain in the labour market to have better opportunities for it. V 78).
ParlaMint-DK_20170420103516	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then it's for the rapporteur's line, and that's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420103535	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for giving the opportunity to hold this debate, a very, very important debate, and I must say that it really upsets me when people who are very, very sick, disabled or otherwise seriously suffer from something, experience that the system is working against them and not with them, and in this case it is demented. Of course, that's not okay. The whole idea of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs was to look at the individual, to look at what each person has of problems, but also of opportunities. If there is no possibility of recovery or of getting closer to the labour market, it is clear that it is an early retirement that is needed, but if there is an opportunity to get closer to the labour market or, possibly, through a flexible job, to get into a working community, one must try to do so. I would also like to make it quite clear that the purpose of the reform was not and still is not that people should get sick from being in resource or job clearance. It must be seen as a good tool for helping the individual, it must develop them, and it must seem pointless, no, it shouldn't When that's said, it would be stupid of me to think that this works very well, because it doesn't, and if it did, we wouldn't have stood here, and then we wouldn't have had all the debates that we've had over time. There is a reason why the Danish People's Party is taking this up, and for a reason why many of these stories are actually running in the press, because there are still municipalities that do not treat these people as intended by the law and that do not do it the right way. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have been critical in the press on several occasions, which is why we have had a number of meetings in the conciliation circle, and that is why, as the Minister mentioned, we have also made a letter of briefing to the municipalities, in which we point out these things and try to tell the municipalities when to give early retirement and all these things, that is, a letter that tells us what a good course of resources is, when to use these tools and when to give early retirement. A letter which I think is clear and which I personally certainly expect to make it work now. I hope it will have an effect, but I cannot be sure, and that is why I will not in any way deny that we are going to propose any changes when we are going to evaluate it. We in the party have begun to delve a lot further into this reform, it is a reform that has been here for that part of the year, and I must be honest in saying that I am also being reasonably impatient and very angry about why it has not worked better than it has done. We will therefore take action when we are called to negotiations with the Minister, with whom we are constantly discussing these matters, and which I also take very seriously, and we will therefore also be involved if there is anything further to do at the time when we have made a good and proper evaluation of it. Dementia is a terrible disease, but you can also ask yourself whether dementia should then be written into the law, whether there should be something special for dementia. I believe that the whole idea of the labour market reforms that we have made is that we should look at the individual's potential for development or lack of it and assess what the further process should be. It should not be assessed on the basis of a diagnosis, but together with the individual, it should be assessed whether there is a possibility of a positive development and I said that together with the individual person should feel that they are part of the process, the individual should feel that they are part of their future, so that they should not feel insecure and hunted. This is incredibly important to us and I have no doubt for a second that it is extremely important for all the conciliation parties. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that: job clearance processes, resource processes or other offers must be implemented with the aim of helping the citizen closer to the labour market. The action must never worsen the health of the citizen; it is the individual's specific situation that is the starting point for what offers and benefits are relevant, citizens with long-term and significantly reduced working capacity, where it is evident that it is pointless to take action to achieve a link with the labour market, are entitled to early retirement, regardless of the diagnosis involved, and that the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has agreed on a new package of initiatives that strengthens the municipalities' work on resource development. The Danish Parliament also notes that the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs will have to be evaluated during 2017. V 79). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104032	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then there are some comments and the first is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104041	Thank you very much. I remember when this reform was being carried out, and I wonder if the Social Democrats do not have a responsibility here. You were on the ministerial taboo at the time. I was at one of the meetings myself, where we were just discussing some of the cases with those who were too sick to get on the work test and all these things they had to be pulled through. When you hear all these stories, is there a reason why you don't start digging into it until now and find out what you can do differently? Is it only now that the rapporteur thinks we should start looking at it? Is it not an idea that the Ministry and the rapporteurs working in the field of employment might begin to concentrate on what disease is, what a dementia is? The rapporteur speaks of opportunities for improvement, opportunities for development for a person with dementia. Is it to look at the individual diseases that the rapporteur would like to take into account, or are we constantly going to make elastic measurements so that the municipalities can decide for themselves whether it is individual or which disease is involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104154	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104156	That was a lot of questions, but I will try to answer them all, and fortunately we have one more round. I can also see that there are more from DF present, and then I will gladly take it. Yes, of course, the Social Democratic Party has a responsibility, and we have never said that we have not. We have taken that when we made the reform. I myself was in it as rapporteur, and I have stood on this platform several times and discussed it here. That is why I also acknowledge this, and I have been told several times not only here but also in the press that it does not work well enough. I have also been a little hard on the municipalities several times and said: Now you must soon deliver the goods. So, yes, we have a responsibility, which is why I also go in and take that responsibility. When the minister calls, I come, and when we need to make some changes, I help make them. The fact that we've only started looking at it now is not correct. We have done something as late as a year to a year and a half ago which meant that if it was pointless to be sent in the course of resources and it was clear that one simply had to be an early retirement, one would of course have to have that pension. Now we've made this letter. And why do we do that? We do that because we are not satisfied with what is happening out there. That is precisely why we have taken an initiative and that is why we are making this letter. It's some kind of raised index finger to tell them how to behave.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104307	I wish the rapporteur could hear himself. He says that we lift the index finger to the municipalities. So did we two years ago. I have been in consultation with various ministers in this area and everyone has said that, of course, people do not have to go through these courses if they are too sick, but they do. I would like to know what the Social Democratic Party will do in concrete terms to make sick people feel and now it's about dementia, because we've made a national dementia action plan... not being pulled through the system and when to die before they can get their own pension paid out and they can have a dignified life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104343	I would like to start by saying that some things are happening out there that are not okay. I have also read some of the stories about dementia, and there are also many other stories about many other people. What we have done is that we have taken these initiatives. But I have also said here from the platform that when we get started with the evaluation, we will, of course, look at it. All these things affect us deeply, as I heard the Minister say, and that is why we are going to look at them. But I also have to say that in the area of labour market policy, employment policy, it is a question of looking at the individual and seeing if there is any development potential. It is not a question of diagnosing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104418	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104420	Thank you. A great many letters of guidance and letters of orientation have been sent out on this issue. This has been discussed by countless consultations, and it has given new letters of orientation and guidance to the municipalities, but it still continues. So the question is why it should help to send out a new letter of orientation. This is especially true when you read it and see that there is nothing in it that is not already in the law. It is also marked by all the other letters. So my question to the rapporteur is: has it roamed the rapporteur in a late night hour that there may be something wrong with the legislation that has been made since the municipalities continue with this practice despite all the many pointed fingers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104512	Now Mr. Finn Sørensen, that there is nothing in these letters of orientation that is not also in the law. I'm glad. I am also pleased that it says in the letter, which I now read out, that if you are going to do these business practices, it must be meaningful to implement them, it must have a development perspective, and resource progression must never worsen the health of the citizen. If you follow what the law says and if you follow what it says in this letter, you are also helping the people whom Mrs Liselott Blixt actually wants to help, because then they should not go through the process of resources, then the people whom I have heard the Danish People's Party from the platform must stand and mention have an early retirement. That's why I'm really, really glad that Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen recognises the law and in fact also thinks that the two things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104610	Then I think it is because the rapporteur overlooks some other things that are contained in that law, namely that it must be possible to prove that the citizen cannot develop his ability to work. Otherwise, it is not quite obvious that the citizen cannot do so, i.e. if it has not been documented. It is, of course, the requirement for municipalities to document something that cannot be documented, namely that a citizen cannot develop ability to work, which means that municipalities continue to send seriously ill people into work testing and resource processes and flexible jobs of a few minutes or a few hours per week. That's what's wrong with that law. Has it ever occurred to the rapporteur that there may be something wrong with that legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104703	I have often wondered whether it is the law that is wrong with it, but I really do not think it is. Having said that, I also recognised a moment ago that if it really turns out that the municipalities are not still able to deliver, then it may well be that we need to align that legislation after an evaluation. It may be, and then I'm ready for it. However, I just have to say that the letter of orientation also says in relation to early retirement that there should be no unnecessary documentation. So I think, sir. Finn Sørensen may have to put on some other glasses and then try to read that letter of orientation, because it actually also says quite precisely when to have an early retirement and when not to. Actually, I think it's pretty well described. That is why I just want to wait for the evaluation, and I would like to say again that if there are any things that do not work, we must of course also take that responsibility and then change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104751	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104754	Thank you, President. Now we must also be a little positive towards the rapporteur, because we also hope that the letter of orientation will solve some of the problems. We really hope so. We also hope that the conciliation circle will take it seriously if it does not work, because the problem is still gone, that the municipalities say that they will decide whether it is pointless to send them into the course of resources and send them straight to a specialist. Then there comes a medical certificate that it will harm the patient to get into resource development, and then the municipality says that they will decide for themselves. Who's gonna decide? Is it a case worker in the municipality, or is it the country's leading specialists who should have the decisive word in this regard, as long as there are no clear lines, and obviously there aren't? I hope there will be that letter of orientation, but I am not sure, and we shall see that in the autumn. If it is the case that the municipality continues to override the specialists to whom they send the patients themselves, and they get the opinion that it will harm the patient if they are sent in a process of resources, is that something that the rapporteur intends to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420104909	That letter of orientation must work, and it doesn't work, and now I'm looking out at the cameras, and then I'm hoping that some of the municipalities are listening with us, we'll make some changes, so they'll make it work, because we're just not gonna put up with this. I will not accept as someone who takes responsibility for this, when I hear such stories as the Danish People's Party tackles, and all the other stories, that this is going to happen, because that is not the point, and that is not what we want, and that is not what we are going to do in the future. That is why we have sent out that letter now, and if that is not going to change, we will have to look at whether or not there are any other things going to happen. I think sir... Bent Bøgsted knows me so well that he knows that that is exactly what I want, and I have no doubt that the Minister will. It is clear that we must then see whether it should be in relation to the fact that it should be those medical statements from specialists who need to have more effect or what. I can't say anything about that. I just have to go inside and see if this keeps going on why it is that it keeps going on, and then we have to ask questions about it after we have taken the evaluation, and then we have to see how there are going to be changes. 'Cause I just don't want this to go on. We need to change this. We cannot have people, in this case demented, treated like this. We can't. That is why, of course, we need to look at it quite seriously, but we also need to evaluate it properly in such a huge reform, with such major upheavals, and look at how much it is and what sort of things it is. I have also already submitted many requests in relation to the evaluation by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105039	I'm glad to hear that. We must always take a positive view of what is being said and what is being said sounds good. I also understand that the rapporteur will take this debate into account in future work because there is a problem with dementia. I understand from the rapporteur that we must, of course, have a closer look at this. However, I would actually like to call on the rapporteur to look at if the municipalities then say that there is someone who is injured if they get to work in terms of resources, then we must have given early retirement, that the Ankestyrelsen does not overrule the decisions taken by the municipality on the basis of that letter of orientation, because there are also some conflicts with the Ankestyrelsen. After all, they believe that the municipalities are too lenient to grant early retirement, where there may be others who even think that the municipalities are often too harsh and do not grant early retirement to those who are really entitled to it. But the conflict between the Ankestyrelsen and the municipalities is also something that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen believes that we should look at when we are going to evaluate the early retirement and flexible job reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105150	As always, I'm ready to look at everything... always ready to look at everything... and I just want to say that when this is over and we're about to look at it, we'll see everything through, of course we will. We want to see everything through, even if it has to be something with medical records. Then I would also like to say that what is just important to me in employment policy is, and it is important for me to say again, that I do not think that this is where we have to diagnose, and I think that this is where we have to look at the individual, but it is clear that I also expect, if they come with someone who is demented and feeling really bad, that they can see that this person must have the very precise help that that person needs, because there is also in this law: Resource progress must never worsen the health of the citizen. When I hear such things as what the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party put himself up here and said, that it happened to some demented people, that is not right. Then it is against what is in the letter of orientation; it is against what is in the legislation, and I cannot be satisfied with that as a legislator.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105255	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105257	Thank you. The rapporteur does not want to include dementia specifically in the legislation, because individual consideration must be taken into account. And that expression sounds really good individual consideration. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur can mention just one example of someone who has been diagnosed with dementia, who has either got a little better, or who may have just landed at a stable level, where the disease has not worsened, just one example of a dementia that has been diagnosed with a dementia disease that has stabilised and has not deteriorated. That's all I'm asking. The person does not need to have recovered or improved, but I would like to hear just one example of a dementia disease that can be stabilised so that the dementia sufferer does not get worse. Is it real? Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105350	No, I'm not familiar with that. But I would say from here that it is not important for me to stand here and discuss the various diagnoses. I am going to help set a framework for employment policy so that all diagnoses, all diseases, including dementia, all disabilities.What do I know can be included in the employment legislation so that you can look at the individual and look at: What exactly are you wrong? What exactly is your problem, your barriers? Is it physical? Is that psychic? Is it a handicap? Is it something social, or what the hell is it? And we have to get that under the law. And if you imagine that we should write in dementia, we should also write all sorts of other things into the legislation. I also think I have heard the Danish People's Party actually say that they want to help simplify employment legislation. We will not do that if we are to start writing in all kinds of diagnoses. I do not think this is within the framework of the legislation. I believe that what we need to do is to provide the municipalities with a proper framework for doing this well. And if it turns out that they are not doing so, then we have to look at whether the framework is too broad. We'll have to look at that at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105457	However, it is precisely to simplify the legislation that no one should sit out in a municipality and be in doubt when there comes a citizen diagnosed with Alzheimer's without any prospect of stabilisation or improvement, but where you know that it goes only one way. Then it is quite simple for the municipality to say afterwards: Here we should not set all sorts of resource processes in motion and job clarification and everything, because we know that we do not need to do so. It's quite specific in the legislation, it's quite simple: if you're affected by this terrible disease, we're not gonna start this circus. That would be a lot easier, because then you shouldn't sit here and send out shepherd's letters to the right and left. Then it's quite simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105541	That is to say, the questioner thinks it is to simplify legislation if we place a particular disease or diagnosis into this legislation. But what about everyone else who comes and wants to get their disease into the legislation? Then all of a sudden we can stand in for questions and discuss all other diagnoses, all other diseases, and put them into the legislation. Then I think we'll go beyond that simplification. I'm just saying that the only right thing is to say that it's the people out there who have to assess it. Because I can't as a politician, and I don't think anyone else can judge the individual out there either. It is not we who should do it, it is the case workers out there, it is the doctors out there, it is the people who are dealing with them every day, who have to assess their ability to enter the labour market, and it is they who have to assess whether or not they should have an early retirement pension. We can't do that. We just have to give them the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105627	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105630	Thank you. I took note of the fact that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, in his rapporteur's speech, said that we should look at the individual's potential for development, and here the rapporteur most recently said that it is not very important to discuss different diagnoses. I would really like some clarification on this, because if we have chosen to put dementia on the agenda today by the Danish People's Party, I think it is important to hear whether the rapporteur says that because he believes that dementia is a cure; whether it is a disease which we know will actually make it possible to improve. This is a bit of a follow-up to some of what Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen mentioned. It is actually a very specific question, and it can in fact be answered almost with a yes or a no. Because that's the way it is when we talk about dementia that I have experienced, also because at one point I was an elder rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and was out visiting demente, had contact with demented people that it actually only goes one way. However, the rapporteur may think that some potential development potential can be looked at in a positive direction. I would like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105734	Well, I certainly do not think that I have stood here and said that dementia is not a terrible disease; it is certainly so. Fortunately, I am spared having it in my immediate family, but I know a lot that has it and know that it is a terrible disease. When I say that we do not have to determine in here the various diagnoses to be written in, it is not the same as saying that we should not discuss it. I also started by praising the Danish People's Party for taking this debate because it is important and to highlight it, also to the municipalities. That's also why I was a little serious and was hoping that out front there were some municipalities listening to me when I said: Now you need to pull yourselves together out there. This applies both to demented people and to all those who have a huge problem, because it is not just the demented ones; there are very many different people, among them. mentally ill people who are not being treated well enough in this system. That's why I'm saying I want to focus on all of these over one comb; they need to be treated really, really well, because they all have a disease that is terrible. And we must help them to do that, that is to say, to get them on very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105838	It was a little longer. In fact, I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur, although perhaps he does not have it very close to the body, has heard, as the employment rapporteur, about demented people who are actually getting better so that we can go in and look at positive development opportunities. In this connection, I would like to repeat one of the examples that Mrs Liselott Blixt gave about a woman who is in flex jobs: she probably thinks she can go out and work as a teacher in a forest nursery, but when it turns out that she is actually forgetting the children, it is because she does not remember that she should bring the children home. And that is why it is so important to focus on just one diagnosis and not take the diagnosis widely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105916	If a person cannot find out how to be in the work test, i.e. if a person cannot develop, so it is pointless to get out in the work test, then the person should not. Whether you are demented or have another serious illness, you are not going out there. And that is why I say: yes, we can talk about demented, and that is also why we are here, but that is also true of all the others when we talk about the employment system. Therefore, it is important to embrace widely. Because there are also many people other than demented who are listening to this and wondering: Where are we in this? That is why it must be an employment system that embraces everyone; it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105952	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420105954	I would like to be positive and say that I hear the rapporteur also being positive about the fact that people with dementia should not be forced to completely unreasonable work tests or what might be called meaningless offers. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will help us to try instead to focus a little more constructively on a labour market where we are able to retain some of the younger people with dementia who actually want to remain in the labour market but who may not have that option today, because the labour market is not really geared to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110040	I can say that quite clearly. Nobody, and by that I mean no one. No one should! That's what I said. We have to get away from the fact that a human being finds it pointless, because a human being gets sicker from it, and it's unreasonable. I can't do that. Mrs Pernille Schnoor is also addressing something that is extremely important, namely the inclusive labour market for demente. However, as the labour market and employment rapporteur, I would like to go even further and involve disabled people, sick people, people of whom I have met many, including those in mini-flex jobs, who actually get a lot out of getting to work just a few hours and who get much more out of it than being at home. It is people who are promised by just getting into the working community, being with other people, feeling they are making a difference. And there I think we should all look into each other's eyes and then start a discussion on the inclusive labour market, because that is not good enough today. We may be able to make proposals on this from in here, but I also believe that the social partners will have to discuss it, because it is also something that is quite important for them. So I would like to acknowledge it, and I would always like to discuss it, because a spacious labour market is super important and I do not think it is spacious enough for what we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110155	I mention it because I think it is something that is not discussed so much in relation to people with dementia. So I think it is important that that particular group should also be on the agenda when we talk about the inclusive labour market. I want to hear about something else, too. Should I understand that the rapporteur will help us to look at these often meaningless processes of resources and work tests that people have to go through, in other words, in addition to telling the municipalities that they should try to tighten up a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110231	Actually, looking at this impossible work test, we've done it pretty often. I have sat in countless meetings with the Minister and the conciliation parties about it, and we look at it fairly often, and we will look at it even more after the evaluation in 2017, and we will discuss it very, very much. As far as the inclusive labour market is concerned, I would like to take part in discussing an inclusive labour market, but you can hear something in me as an employment rapporteur, which means that instead of discussing inclusive labour markets for one type of diagnosis, I would rather have a spacious labour market that can accommodate everyone. That is what is behind the term spacious labour market, that is to say it must be able to accommodate everyone and not only demented people also like demented people, but all at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110310	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110320	That's what I'm talking about. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party is raising the debate here in Parliament on whether people with dementia should go through a process of job clearance or resource development. In the Left we have a sharp focus on people with dementia and their relatives. Together with the Danish People's Party and the other parties behind the movement pool, we have just presented an ambitious national action plan for dementia. With the plan, we have stressed that we have a common ambition that people with dementia and their relatives should be able to live safely and that they should have a dignified life. The National Dementia Action Plan contains 23 concrete initiatives designed to contribute in various ways to making Denmark a dementia-friendly country. People with dementia are different, just as people with other diagnoses are different. A diagnosis can have common traits between people, but it can develop differently and differ from one person to another. We are also addressing this issue in the National Dementia Action Plan, where, among other things, we are addressing it. stresses the importance of a skills and knowledge boost for professional professionals who meet demented in their daily lives. For people, different people are also demented. For us in the Left, the diagnosis is not decisive in terms of whether one can enter the job market or whether one can fit into a given course; it is much more about the level of function. We have reformed the labour market area, so much more will be able to make a positive contribution. The hand on the heart, I actually think that the vast majority would like to contribute what you can, no matter how little or how much it may be. But it is clear, and I would like to stress this, that if you are ill and if you have a significantly reduced ability to function or work, you should not work, then you need help and you must be cared for and cared for. Does this mean that, as soon as you have a diagnosis, you have to leave the labour market? No, because there are many people with a chronic suffering who have good opportunities to contribute to our welfare society and our working community... maybe not on full time, but on reduced time. It's win-win. In relation to job clearance and resource development, it has never been the intention that these processes should make people more ill; on the contrary, the whole idea has been that they should bring citizens closer to the job market. I also understand from the Minister that the conciliation circle with the initiative package for the municipalities is precisely clarifying the fact that the processes must bring citizens closer to the job market. I have also read newspapers and, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, have sometimes wondered about the cases that find their way to the newspaper columns. We must always remember to put the citizen at the centre and actively use the opportunities that already exist to accommodate the individual. In today's Denmark, all municipalities have interdisciplinary rehabilitation teams that focus on the whole human being and not just a one-eyed focus on e.g. employment. With clinical functions, municipalities have optimal opportunities to better seek health professional knowledge, which can help to create a health overview and, in the long term, also create the optimal solutions for the individual, taking into account the individual's level of function. A flex job where you contribute for a few hours a day or a week can be a good solution for some, while others will have such a low level of function that it makes absolutely no sense to look at alternative job or employment opportunities. That group must, of course, have granted an early retirement pension. I mentioned at the outset that we in the Left have a strong focus on demented and their opportunities for a dignified life, but we also have a strong focus on whether the initiatives and the legislation that we put into effect have the desired effect and point in the right direction. We are closely following the reform of the whole area of early and flexible jobs, and we look forward to the evaluation later this year. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we put the citizen at the centre and look at the individual as the person he is now, regardless of his diagnosis, and from that point of view we decide what should happen and when should be done in the field of employment as well. The Left can support the text which the Social Democrat rapporteur previously read on behalf of the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110731	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110733	I am delighted that I am the health rapporteur, who can be allowed to speak diagnoses, because there are all parties who think that it is quite all right to make a cancer action plan and to pack up cancer instead of parkinson packages, to take different diagnoses and to do something specific for the people who have them, just as we do a dementia action plan. So I would like to hear: now that the government, of which the Left is also a part, is making a dementia action plan, where in the action plan from which Mrs Jane Heitmann listed these points, there is something about us helping them when they are going through a work test?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110812	As I mentioned, there are 23 different initiatives in the dementia action plan. One of the initiatives, to mention just one, is a tool for early detection of dementia. Another is that, in practice, a sharper focus must be placed on dementia. And it is at least two initiatives that aim to see those people who may have dementia or some other disease in the past, so that in the long term they can make their everyday lives easier, whether they go to work or they have a different function in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110848	One thing is that I am happy to be a health rapporteur, but I also know that the rapporteur himself is a health rapporteur and therefore knows a little about it. And then I think: are you really satisfied with the national action plan, where you do not actually address some of the challenges that are one of the hardest for those people? We can unravel them, treat them, create relatives' networks, etc., but we have to drag them through resource sequences. So they say we shouldn't, but what are we gonna do? Well, what are you going to do from the left to make sure that the municipality doesn't drag you with a dementia disease through the course? And there I would say that out of these 70,000-85,000 with a dementia disease, most Alzheimer's disease has an average life expectancy of seven years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420110936	I am simply so proud and so pleased that we have jointly established a national dementia action plan. However, I also think that the discussion here in relation to the course of resources should bear in mind that having dementia or being dementia is not one diagnosis. There are 200 different dementias, and I think that is something to be forgotten in the discussion here. With 200 different dementias, this also means that dementia affects people differently. Dementia develops differently. For some people it is fast and for some people it is slow that you get worse, and for me it is just so important that you look at the individual person. And I actually think that with this legislation, which the conciliation circle has already adopted, you just address the fact that you focus on the individual because people are different. And even if they have the same diagnosis, things develop differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111045	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111046	Thank you very much. First question: are there any of the 200 dementias to which the rapporteur refers, which are such that the person will feel better? That was the first question. The second question is: the Social Democrat rapporteur made a rather remarkable statement that it could not be denied that some legislative changes would have to be looked at if this new letter of orientation did not work. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, as a representative of the Left and thus of the Conciliation Committee, is also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111125	Well, the whole legal complex has to be evaluated during this year, and there I think it's actually a really nice message from the Social Democrats that they say that there are many corners of this legal complex that you want to go in and look at. I think it might be just as fresh as it is if you say here in advance that this is going to change. Let us now have the evaluation, and let us see what the evaluation points to, and then take stock of the situation at that time. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen, if I know of any dementia diagnosis where people actually get better. I mentioned earlier that there are about 200 different dementias, and I actually think that the hallmark of all of them is that to some extent you are getting at varying speeds, depending on the diagnosis you have and which person you are slowly getting more and more sick. That's the way it goes for most people. But I also think it is important to recognise that people react differently. Now I mentioned here the dementia action plan with 23 initiatives. The sooner you track down dementia, the better opportunities there are usually for you not to heal, but to help people to a dignified life anymore. That is why I think that the Dementia Action Plan here is a fine initiative, along with, for example, the Dementia Action Plan. the reform that has been done in the area of flexible jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111250	Thank you. I just note that the rapporteur was not able to mention a single dementia disease in which the person gets better, in other words in the direction of recovery. It's all going that way. That is surely a good argument for not forcing people with dementia into work tests, resource cycles and mini-flex jobs, all of which have a common headline, namely that this is something to force citizens into because they have to develop their ability to work. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111324	I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that there is no need to make people sicker. And then I think it is really important that you still look away at the individual as the person it is, with the opportunities they potentials, but also sometimes the limitations it has, and then take an individual starting point. I find it very, very sad if you start cutting everyone together, especially in view of the fact that there are 200 different dementias and that the disease develops differently in different people. So I think that you have to look at the individual, look at the level of function that the individual has, and then start from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111421	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111422	Thank you. It is good to have a health rapporteur on the platform, because it is someone who knows very well that if you are hit by dementia, it only goes one way, and it is downhill in relation to your health. Such a process of resource clarification is about finding out what work capacity you have left. And when you see as demented through it after a year or so, you get set some number of hours on how much you can work every week. If we then agree that the premise is that things are going worse and worse, and that the situation is getting quite out of date, and that, as a matter of fact, we need to get on with the next process, even though we have just clarified one, because we are now even worse than when we started the process, because it only goes one way, can the rapporteur not see that baroque in that situation? In other words, when you put on some number of hours, it will be out of date in a very short space of time, because then you have become even worse. Therefore, it may seem like the screw without end, because one must constantly have a new clarification of the state of one's disease at all times, because it is constantly in a downward spiral. Can't you see that that doesn't make much sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111522	In fact, I think the baroque here is that the Danish People's Party is trying to create an impression that you in the municipalities are cast in concrete. I've been in a municipal council for more than 10 years. The impression I have, among other things. In fact, from having sat on an employment committee itself, most municipalities make an effort to be in good dialogue with the citizen. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I have also read some stories where I think: how can this happen? Those are stories that seem totally absurd, I admit. But my general impression is, in fact, that a great deal of effort is being made in the municipalities to get into dialogue with the citizens. And for us in the Left, it is just important that you have an individual approach, that you look at the individual person and put the citizen at the centre. It sounds so devoured, it sounds like a pussy, but that's what it's really about, namely that you focus on the individual, and that in dialogue you look at what resources it is, what opportunities it is, what abilities it is, but also sometimes, as I said earlier, what limitations you have, and then take stock of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111628	I am sure that in very many cases, and probably also in the majority of cases, where a younger citizen on the labour market is affected by dementia, it is going well and that in most cases most municipalities do so in the right way. But you just can't use it for anything if you're not one of most cases, but is one of the cases that is being sent through this, as we agree on pointless development, because there is no development that can go the right way. Does the rapporteur not have individual consideration to take into account the individual who does not get through the appropriate course of action?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111712	We always have an individual consideration to take, and it is also very important that we in the municipalities pay attention to it. That is why I am simply glad that the Minister has taken the initiative to send out a letter of briefing to the municipalities. Then there should be a municipality where you are not fully aware that it is so important that you look at the individual person, hopefully the focus with the letter of orientation is directed exactly in the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111740	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Then I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420111750	Thank you very much. A big thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this query debate. After all, it is very important from the specific example and issue that Dansk Folkeparti has raised here with the question of what is happening to people who have been diagnosed with dementia. Can it really be right that they should be forced into resource and work testing and everything when they have a one-way disease and it is downhill? It should not happen by common sense, but it happens. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party has mentioned some examples. We can also rewind the example of Dorte, which was actually the occasion for a consultation on resource processes here in the Folketing. She had to fight for five years. She had many diseases, and one of them was a dementia. Nevertheless, she had to fight with the municipality for 5 years before she was awarded her early retirement pension. She got the warrant, and then she died before she could get the payment of her first early retirement pension. The Alzheimer's Association has a look-up on its facebook page and yesterday I approached the Alzheimer's Association to confirm that yes, the Alzheimer's Association also has examples of people who have been diagnosed with dementia and who are being chased into these resource processes and work tests, etc. That shouldn't happen. I think it is appropriate to discuss this on the basis of a particular diagnosis. We can discuss whether to include a diagnosis in the law is the final solution to that, we can discuss that, but it is appropriate to discuss it on the basis of a diagnosis of a disease which goes only one way. Everyone agrees that not a single example of dementia can be given, where it goes the other way and where people get well. Why, then, is it that it continues to happen that we get examples of this after countless letters of orientation and instructions? Yes, it is because the municipalities do what they are asked to do. You can see this if you read the law, and if you read the Ankestyrelsen's report on local authorities' practice, namely the practice study of May 2015. The Ankestyrelsen says that the municipalities generally do what they are asked to do, because what they are asked to do is down to the smallest detail to prove that it is obviously pointless to try to develop the ability of the citizen. That's what the law says. And if it is not documented, the municipalities must not give early retirement. It's the happy madness of joy in the goose's eyes that is marked by that law. That is the reason for all the many terrible examples that are all wringing their hands over, and they say that it is terrible and that the municipalities must now get their act together. The municipalities have gotten their act together. Not enough, says the Ankestyrelsen, because at the same time it raises the index finger and says that from 16 specific examples I think so, but don't blame me for the figure, i.e. whether it is 13 or 16 • the Ankestyrelsen believes that the municipalities have been too relaxed, because it has not been documented down to the smallest detail that the citizens cannot develop the ability to work. So I ask here in the Chamber and there is enough of it and I want to ask the people: is it now a fair situation to be faced in that one must be able to prove that one cannot develop working capacity? That's not fair, is it? Especially when you have a municipality which, according to the law and with the law in hand, has a limitless optimism about the ability and ability of citizens to develop their ability to work. It can then be said that it is perhaps too limited to discuss only on the basis of one diagnosis, because there are other diseases that have the same course, sclerosis, muscle loss, Parkinson's disease, to name a few. We can take the sclerosis affected Steffen, who could only take a hundred steps, but who still had to fight 5 years with the municipality before he was granted his early retirement because the municipality lived up to that law. So, what's the solution? We can discuss that. We support the joint motion for a resolution we have with the Danish People's Party, and in fact it is not so difficult. For what is the message in the proposal for adoption is that if you have got the diagnosis, it must be voluntary whether you have to go into resource or work tests or mini-flex jobs or whatever it may be. That is where we are going, so that seriously ill people cannot be forced into those processes which risk giving them worse health than they do. We will be discussing further tomorrow, namely in question debate F 40, which Enhedslisten has raised, and there we can also discuss a concrete solution. I would just like to say that it is gratifying that the Social Democrat rapporteur is opening the door to perhaps looking at legislative changes. That is an epoch-making statement. We have not been able to get that many times we have discussed it. So I look forward to it. After all, it is a question of whether the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives will take advantage of the right of veto that they have as conciliation partners, in order to prevent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112312	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. So we go to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112320	Thank you. We all know that dementia is a terrible disease. People with dementia may find it difficult to understand and relate to what is happening around it. They may have difficulty remembering, and often they do not even know their own children. They do not always know what they are doing, and they can be a danger to themselves and others. It is a terrible disease and, of course, it makes no sense to send such sick people into job clearance. This applies not only to people with dementia, but also to people with other serious diseases. Unfortunately, we have seen rather grotesque job clearance processes, for example. bedridden patients sent in job clearance with their bed. We have also seen examples of other patients who are visible to everyone who cannot take on a job, but are still sent into trial jobs. We also heard Mrs Liselott Blixt point that out. And, of course, we have to stop that, because this arrangement was never meant to be. But we should also not go to the other ditch where we believe that we are helping people by unnecessarily parking them on the couch for early retirement or other transfer. All analyses show that staying in the labour market increases the quality of life of the individual as long as one can now stay there; perhaps just 20 hours a week or more or less. It is a question of finding the right balance. LA is not in favour of chasing people around the system for the sake of the system, as we heard Mrs Liselott Blixt say. That's not what's meant to be. Those who cannot work and support themselves must have a safety net below, while those who can, of course, have to work. For all people with disease there should be room and time for individual help and advice. Perhaps you want and can continue to work after you have been diagnosed. It depends on how early the disease has been detected. It may also depend on what kind of work you have. There should be a job-sustaining effort that helps the individual on reasonable terms and that individually takes into account the current illness and job situation. In this way, the individual as much quality of life as possible and society achieves the best possible economy. All of the above factors should be included in an evaluation of the reform on early retirement and flexible jobs during 2017, as we heard the Minister say. The Liberal Alliance supports the conciliation circle's proposal for adoption, as it was read out earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112607	Mrs Liselott Blixt has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112608	Thank you. Here too, I am fortunate that it is a health rapporteur who stands on the platform. I am surprised that there is no more distinction between diseases and that one can stand on the platform and say that it increases one's quality of life to be on the labour market just 20 hours a week. I would like to know what evidence there is of this with regard to people with dementia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112640	Now I said 20 hours or less. What this must be about is an individual, professional assessment of the individual's job situation and disease situation. I am not going to stand here and make myself wise on behalf of professional knowledge, but there are people who know these things and who have to look at the individual human being and see how sick the individual is, what is the individual's situation and how to help the individual person in the best way possible. After all, the purpose of all these initiatives is to help people get a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112718	It may be that this is the purpose, but it doesn't work that way when you talk to the people who are actually out there. Now we are talking about the diagnosis of dementia because we have made the action plan where we think something is missing when it is, we go out and say: how good we are, we have given so much money and we have made a plan with 23 points, but at the same time we must ensure that you are on the labour market. So even if your doctor says that you are incapable of working and that you may not have so many years left to live, the Liberal Alliance believes that we should drive you through resource sequences to find out and clarify what you can be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112756	No, the Liberal Alliance doesn't think so. If it's obvious and clear that it's neither for the individual citizen, nor for society, nor for anyone or for anything, then of course they shouldn't go through these processes. And that is what needs to be taken into account. Because we've seen completely grotesque processes where people shouldn't have been in work testing. That's what we need to stop, and that's one of them. what we need to look at when evaluating this reform. That is why we need to look at it and that is why we need to evaluate it. We must stop all the inappropriate processes that we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112838	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112841	Thank you. I think Mrs Liselott Blixt would have liked to have asked another question, but now I have to follow up. If it is the view of the Liberal Alliance that we should not hunt down the victims of dementia in a job investigation that is pointless, as we agree it will be for all dementia sufferers, because dementia only goes one way when you have been affected by that disease, why is it that there should be any possibility in the legislation that a municipality can do so? Why should this possibility exist, why should it be an assessment matter? Why should it not just be quite clear that it should only leave that possibility to the law? What is the idea and the higher purpose of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420112936	I believe that we should not make a law for each disease that exists. This law must contain all diseases, and it must be able to accommodate all people on the labour market. And then it is up to those who sit out there, who are close to the citizens and who understand things, to assess the individual's situation. We can't start making a law for every single disease that exists. There are many mental illnesses. We have just heard that there are only 200 diagnoses in dementia, and there are many other mental illnesses. After all, we cannot start making a law for each of them, so there will certainly not be less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113020	Does the questioner want another question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113021	It must then be my claim that it will be quite simple for the proceedings out there, because then there is no doubt as to whether a citizen should be chased through this process. Because if you can make a dementia diagnosis, you can just say, well, fine, then we don't have to start all this, because then we both know this isn't going to start. That's making things easier. The day when there will be a cure or treatment for dementia that will make people feel better, with our arms above our heads, we will remove this from the legislation again and say that once you have been affected by dementia, we must once again have the opportunity to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113056-2	I think that is quite fair for the rapporteur. I do not agree with that position. But what I very much agree with is that we have to go where we get rid of all the processes that do not serve any purpose and where we can see that people who are obviously not ready to take a job and who, no matter what you do, will not, of course, be doing so. It's never been the intention of the system, and we have to stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113127	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no more brief comments. So I think we should go over to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113139	Thank you. About 15,000 Danes are affected every year by dementia. Today in Denmark there are about 35,000 people over 65 years of age who have dementia diagnosis and it is estimated that a much higher number suffers from dementia, and the number is also expected to increase in the coming years because there are more elderly people. Dementia is a disease that, no doubt, as we have heard others talk about today, turns the life upside down for both the sufferer of dementia and the next of kin. In the alternative, we will work to make Denmark a more inclusive and dementia-friendly society, which is why we were also pleased to contribute to the dementia trade plan and the 470 million. kr. has been allocated to a number of new actions in a national dementia trade plan. People with dementia of working age and who may be in jobs have other challenges than older people with dementia outside the labour market. This group and the group of neodiagnostics need help and guidance that is different. We need to be better at creating arrangements where this group can remain in the labour market and support their family life so that they can maintain a good and normal everyday life. We must ensure a daily life of meaningfulness and quality of life for people with dementia. Therefore, people with dementia, who want to remain in the labour market themselves, must be better able to do so, and no one should be sent in job clearance or resource progressions against their will.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113322	Sir. Finn Sørensen? Then I would like to thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor very much, and I will gladly give the floor to Mr Schnoor. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113356	Thank you. As the average age rises and more people reach a high age, which is positive, unfortunately more people are also affected by dementia. Thus, many more people come into contact with dementia at some point in their lives. This is a situation for which we must create the best possible framework. It is therefore gratifying that the recent initiatives for the early retirement and flex-job reform have just stressed that efforts in a job clearance process must not exacerbate the health of the citizen. Because we know that extra pressure and stress can increase the progress of dementia more quickly. We should also just bear in mind that one of the things we know to prevent and delay the development of dementia is to keep going physically, mentally and socially. This does not mean that you have to go through a long-term job clearance process, but it means that being stimulated to some extent can also be an advantage. A small-scale activation such as flex jobs must not be excluded from the outset if we are to look at the whole human being and if we are to look at what helps delay the progress of dementia. Because there may be cases where dementia has been caught at such an early stage that medication can reduce the steeping curve of progress, which allows the person concerned to perform certain functions that he is happy with and that create quality of life, and that must be one of the most important things when we talk about dementia. We should not reduce anyone to their diagnosis, but be based on the person they are and the skills they have. It is therefore also important to stress in the conciliation circle that it is the individual's situation that is the starting point for what services are relevant, and it must therefore be the most important thing that we start from the individual's life situation in the difficult situation that arises with dementia. In fact, it is so important for the conciliation circle that an evaluation and follow-up is desired as early as 2017, not in 2018, but this year, because it is citizens who need to be taken care of, and we must ensure that individual considerations are taken into account, among others. Because of the terrible disease that dementia is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113700	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113704	I would like to thank the rapporteur, whom I believe to have said many things quite rightly, not least what is included in the law, namely that the situation of the individual citizen should be taken as a starting point. My question is this: is that what you live up to when you force people into these resource processes, because they have to be based on the citizen's situation? Because there's an economic constraint in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113744	Thank you to the author for his introductory remarks. Of course, no one should be forced into a completely unreasonable, long-range job clearance process when there is no real potential. That is also why we must welcome what is the intention in the conciliation circle's comments on this, namely that if it worsens the health of the citizen, the citizen should not go through a difficult process. Then it is precisely this that must be taken into account by the individual citizen and his or her needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113823	Thank you. But when, in this area of dementia, we have now seen several examples of municipalities not taking that into account for the individual citizen, but saying that the law requires that it is clearly pointless to try to develop their ability to work, and that otherwise they must not give early retirement, that is why the municipalities are sending people out in such a way, often contrary to the medical recommendations, would the rapporteur not think that it would be good to remove the element of compulsion? For then there was an opportunity to start from what the citizen himself wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420113904	I think I remember that two years ago there was a woman in Fredericia, or so, to whom the rapporteur for the questioners also referred in her introductory speech and who was not granted early retirement, although perhaps this should have happened. It's quite true that every time we hear some of these very horrible stories that unfortunately have sometimes appeared, every time we hear these specific, individual examples, where it hasn't just gone by the book, it's important that this is something we're dealing with. This has just been dealt with in the conciliation circle, where new initiatives have been taken to ensure that the concerns raised by the questioner are taken into account so that no one is sent out unnecessarily by force. This is something that is being monitored on an ongoing basis, and that is why it is being evaluated this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114007	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114009	Thank you very much. In other words, it is very typical of the parties in the conciliation circle that have made this agreement all the time to say that it is not about diseases, that we must have quality and that it must be individual. I think that sometimes we should look at what kind of disease we are talking about. Now it has been added with figures, and it is said that there are 200 different dementias, and there I would hurry to say that there are 70,000-85-000 people with a dementia disease, but about. Fifty thousand of them have Alzheimer's and that is the worst where average life expectancy is 7-10 years. It is just to put it in place when it is said that you want them to be clarified. Everyone thinks it should be done individually, but isn't that what you do when you do a clarification process, so it does it individually? Otherwise, it may last for perhaps five years, and then perhaps there are two years when you cannot remember that you have spent your pension, which you have earned up to yourself. If you are sitting in this conciliation circle, which has made this agreement, you would not want to say: how do we ensure that the municipalities live up to what everyone has stood and said here on the platform and as the rapporteur has also said?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114123	There is no doubt that Alzheimer's as well as all the other dementias are very terrible, and that is precisely why we are all sitting here debating it with great interest. And there is no doubt that it is of course in everyone's interest to ensure that the municipalities ensure that something important is done for the citizens who are in a situation where they are in real difficulty. That is why there is every reason to welcome the fact that this is something that is being evaluated this year, because it seems to us that this is an important area of action, and it is, of course, gratifying that more people share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114209	Yeah, poor ones who have to sit at home waiting for somebody to pull themselves together. Some of them have been thrown out of their homes. I spoke yesterday to a social worker from Hvidovre who told me that there is a handful of people who have not been as lucky as they have been to get an early retirement pension. So with all these praises and everything they say about the municipalities having to live up to it, I would like to ask: what are they going to do to ensure that they do so? It is a simple question: what will be done to ensure that the municipalities live up to what you all say?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114237	The work we have already started, and what the conciliation circle is very aware of, is that these initiatives are being implemented in such a way that if there is no clear future progress and if you expect a deterioration in the health of this job clearance process, then it is not the right thing to do. It is, after all, the clear framework that is in relation to it and which is clearly highlighted in what the conciliation circle has said. So that is the framework that exists and that the municipalities must, of course, adapt to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114327	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114329	Thank you. We all agree that there are no dementias where there is a prospect of recovery. We all agree that citizens who do not have the prospect of recovery should not be in job clearance. What is the logic of the fact that there should be any possibility that doubts should be raised in the municipalities as to whether a dementia diagnosis should lead to a failure to pass through a job clearance process? I have tried to get the other rapporteurs from the conciliation circle to explain this, and perhaps the radical rapporteur can explain why something that we all agree should not happen, should nevertheless have the opportunity in the legislation to happen? What is the logic behind this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114419	It is true that we all agree that dementia is a progressive disease in which development is taking place, unfortunately. But what it seems we do not agree on is that we should not stare completely blindly at diagnoses, but look at what kind of person we are dealing with. Some people are therefore caught at a very early stage, and it is really, really, really pleasing if we can get some skills, some opportunities out of those people where that might be the case. And that is what is essential, in other words, that we should use the competences that exist in those cases where it is possible to do so. So we have to look at the people they are and not just look at their diagnoses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114505	Well, dementia sufferers who get caught at that time in their illness are never near a process of resource clarification. After all, it is people who have become so bad that they have fallen out of the labour market and therefore have to go through a process of resource clarification. So this group of citizens, which we will take into account, is never near the citizens who are actually affected by the action that is being taken to take account of some others. I simply do not see the logic that citizens who are so poor that they have gone out of the labour market because of a dementia disease must be forced through a process of resource clarification with the prospect that we all know there is, namely that there will never be any resources or perhaps sometime when there will be any better research, but at present there is no prospect of recovery. Why should that possibility be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114554	What should at least be possible is that one does not stare completely blindly at diagnoses, but looks at the people one is dealing with and looks at the competences that they might be able to offer. Unfortunately, there are also very many cases where it is an advanced course that makes it not relevant and that it will push and stress the individual citizen so much that it will affect his or her health. And that is precisely what we are aware of in the conciliation circle, and when there are cases where it will worsen the health of the person concerned and where there is not exactly what is needed, then it is the case that you are aware of, and then it is not the people you have to force through a job clearance process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114643	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no further brief comments to the rapporteur, so I would be happy to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420114652	Thank you very much, sir. President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting the terms of demente on the agenda. But let me start by revealing that I really would have liked the Danish People's Party to have been a little more inclusive in terms of the target group in this debate. I fully agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that we need to look at the labour market conditions for people with dementia, but also for other patient groups with progressive diseases, for example. Parkinson, sclerosis, etc. In fact, common to those diagnoses is that, unfortunately, it only gets worse. Having a diagnosis whose only sure prognosis is that it gets worse is serious for the individual and for any relatives. Of course, this can give rise to a crisis in itself. However, most patients also quickly realise that diagnoses require a very fast start to relate to the situation. In some cases, the development of the disease may be delayed with targeted training, but at the same time it will soon be necessary to organise everyday life according to the new conditions. Regular daily tasks often become more difficult to overcome, and it is almost full-time work in itself to prevent the disease from taking too much power too quickly. Because it's still gone just a matter of time. Recently I was with a woman of my own age, that is, she was in her prime who had just been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. She immediately lost her job, which she no longer managed, although she really wanted to keep it. But the workplace could not afford to keep an employee who could no longer fill the place. She certainly could not try to work with new colleagues and new tasks, while she also had to deal with the crises because of the disease in her life. This leads me to remind the health rapporteurs, of whom we are many today, that in the work on the dementia action plan we have been very concerned about society. We have, for example. funds are allocated to experiments with dementia-friendly cities, but the case worker who has to deal with the newly diagnosed citizen with dementia does not necessarily have the knowledge of how the labour market demands we make of demented citizens can affect the disease. It is a fact that citizens with dementia most often have to spend a lot of resources to maintain as normal a daily life as possible. If we make demands that the demented citizen cannot honour, there is a very great risk that we will actually worsen the disease. It can already be difficult to keep track of time, keep track of the routines of personal care, keep track of how many spoonfuls of coffee are needed for a pot of coffee. It can even be difficult to count and keep remembering where you have reached. The hand on the heart, friends, how many jobs do we have that can accommodate such challenges? No, we're not gonna park people on early retirement. Yes, it may be good to be challenged, even if you are ill, but it must be done in a way that avoids exacerbating the disease, and in a way that ensures a dignified life for the sick. People with dementia or other progressive diseases must be helped to have as good a life as possible. Disadvantages are already queuing as skills are lost. We must in no way push that development with demands that the sick citizen himself does not think he can pay. It has made me very sorry to learn that people with dementia have been subjected to work tests which they themselves do not believe they can. It was not the intention of the legislation that we would harm people. In the same way, I do not think that the objective of case handling is to torment people as much as possible. That is why I also support the proposal for adoption by the Minister for Employment, but at the same time I would also like to stress that we, as the conciliation party, will take this issue with us when the agreement is to be evaluated in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115059	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115102	Thank you. I am very pleased that the rapporteur actually thinks something of the same thing. The rapporteur believes that we should have included a number of diagnoses in it, and I would like that too, but now it is the case that we have an action plan for the dementia area and that unfortunately we do not yet have an action plan for the sclerosis area, the parkinon area. I would also very much like that, so it may be that we can take each other in our hands afterwards and take care of it. But now that we go out and say that we are doing so much for demented people, why don't we do it wholeheartedly? Then why don't we make sure? Everyone here agrees. The only question is, how do we make sure the municipality does that? And there is no answer to that in the conciliation circle, even though everyone thinks the same thing, namely, that we should do it individually. So I would like to know whether perhaps the rapporteur had an idea of how to ensure that the municipalities live up to what the rapporteur's own party has also helped to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115205	In fact, in my rapporteur's speech, I tried to point out that, in the circle that has created the dementia action plan, we have just taken into account such things as dementia-friendly cities. And in it is also that you train the merchant and try to think that other citizens and society as a whole must understand what it really means to be affected by dementia. I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech that I think it might have been a task that we could have taken on board if we had thought so far when we made the dementia action plan: that very case-handlers also need to know what kind of disease we are talking about when we talk about dementia or, for that matter, other diseases that are progressive. I really think it could somehow be the dividing line. I am not in favour of saying that everyone with dementia should give up in advance because there will be a great many with dementia who think it would be the same as having the lights turned off. I do not think that any of us want legislation to turn people out of hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115311	After all, we should not try to put words in our mouths from the three parties that say that it should be up to the individual with the diagnosis. It sounds like when some people go to the platform as if we are asking them to retire immediately, but that is not what we are saying. We're just saying that you have to try to live up to what you're making yourself into the proposal for adoption: "The rate must never worsen the citizen's health." How do you ensure that the municipality lives up to this and that they are entitled to early retirement if they have reduced their ability to work? How are you gonna make sure the municipalities live up to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115346	I mean, I mean what the proposal for adoption says, and I think that everyone actually does. I have not heard a single person in the Chamber today say that we do not want to ensure that demented people receive proper treatment. I think that dialogue is a key word in relation to it, so that more people become aware that one can actually harm the demented if one demands the demented one whom the demented himself does not believe to be able to pay. So dialogue is one way forward, and the other way forward, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is to raise the issue in the conciliation circle in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115429	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115430	First of all, there is no point in referring to the dementia action plan in relation to what we are discussing here. For what we are talking about here is legislation on early retirement, and it does not deal with the dementia action plan, and it certainly does not have any ambition to make any changes. After all, it is legislation on early retirement that the municipalities are following and that means that we see all these grotesque examples of how people are being chased out. So I have to repeat the question, because we have not yet received a concrete answer: how will the rapporteur ensure that the municipalities live up to all the fine words that the rapporteur said and with which I fully agreed? How will the rapporteur ensure that the municipalities do not force the citizens into some way, and now I quote the rapporteur: which the citizens themselves do not believe to be able to live up to? That is a very, very good wording. That's just not what the law says. So I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur will ensure that the municipalities live up to this. That's what we need to know. That is what we have been asking so many, many times since that reform was introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115535	Well, by sticking to the law's intentions. Because the intention of the law is precisely not to expose people to something they cannot do. But I think there's a lack of knowledge when we talk about dementia. I have often listened to people who say that it is good to keep going, for example, before this debate. has had a dementia. And yes, it is easy to think, and that is really a logical conclusion. But the reality is that when you have a disease that is progressive, you can spend a lot of resources at all to keep yourself going and learn to live with the situation that is happening and learn to live with that there is only one sure prognosis, and that is that it gets worse. I believe that dialogue is necessary there. That is also why I have argued that, in the course of the evaluation in the autumn, we will take up precisely that question, not only in relation to dementia I am not in favour of certain diagnoses being written into the legislation but also in relation to people with progressive diseases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115647	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not believe that it is the intention of the law that people should be sent out against their will in such a way. Does this mean that the rapporteur completely disagrees with the Ankestyrelsen, who clearly says that the intention of the law is to prove that the citizen cannot develop his capacity for work? It must obviously be pointless to try to develop the capacity to work, and to note this, we need to send the citizen in all these processes that we have been talking about. It's the intention of the law. That's what the Anke Agency says. Does the rapporteur disagree with the Ankestyrelsen? And if the rapporteur disagrees with the Ankestyrelsen, will the rapporteur help to change the law so that the municipalities do not have the opportunity to send people out in these grotesque processes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115737	I would be very sorry for legislation that is black and white. For they say that demented should never be in the work test if you imagine it is the same as turning off the light of hope. And there are actually a lot of people who get a diagnosis or many are probably not there when we talk dementia, but there are citizens who want life to be allowed to continue a little longer under the normal conditions or the conditions that apply today. I agree that the decision of the Ankestyrelsen means that the municipalities must demonstrate that it is pointless to do work tests. But I also believe that it is possible to document a meaningless work test simply by means of a diagnosis such as dementia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115825	Before Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen has the floor, I would like to inform you that it is the President's view that we will finish the rapporteurs before we go to lunch break, but that we will wait with the Employment Minister's follow-up until after the midday break just so that you can schedule your time. But the next one, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115841	Thank you. I shall try to make it clear: why does it make sense for the SF that the law should leave the possibility for municipalities to send citizens diagnosed with dementia in the course of job clearance against the will of the citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420115909	But that is actually what I said in my rapporteur's speech that it does not necessarily make sense either. However, we do not necessarily believe that the municipality is obliged to send citizens into work tests against their will. In fact, I believe that the municipalities do not live up to the intentions of the legislation when the municipalities do so anyway. I still think it's about ignorance. I believe that it is about the need for more knowledge about what dementia is for a disease and that dementia is not best treated by keeping people going, for example in the form of work tests and other things, but that, in reality, it may be possible to delay the development of the disease if, instead of giving the citizen an early retirement pension when the citizen is ready to do so, and to provide an opportunity to learn to live with the consequences of this terrible disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120001	So SF would like to help push in the conciliation circle to change the possibility of municipalities having this practice? I don't want you to be able to see the law and say: we can do this. This should not be possible for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120023	I still do not believe that there are municipalities doing this to torment and torment people, so I would like to stress that the municipalities already have the opportunity to choose to give a citizen with dementia a pension, also on the basis of the present one, that they have a diagnosis called dementia. I note that there are some examples of this not always being the case, and that is deeply regrettable. That is why I think we should continue to talk about some other and better solutions, and if that is not enough, then it is a theme that comes from the SF in the conciliation circle when it is the case that the agreement has to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120103	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We will take the last rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120114	Thank you. I do not think I can provide any new arguments in relation to what has been in the debate so far, where we have come around well. I am curious to see how three questions can be kept on the same subject, by the way, but that is what time has to show for subsequent questions. Like the other rapporteurs who have opposed the proposal here, we in Conservatives also believe that it would be strange to include a particular disease in legislation, it must be based on a concrete assessment of people's ability to work. Unlike some of the rapporteurs who have been in favour of the proposal and the questioners, I do not feel able to assess without looking specifically at people, whether everyone with dementia has so little working capacity that they are not going into job clearance. So I think it is most certain that we let some who know it look at the people individually, instead of rejecting here blankly, that there is no one with any degree of dementia at all who will be able to get into such a process and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120238	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120242	Thank you. I understand that it is impossible to have specific diseases written by name into the legislation. Could we then imagine a wording in the direction of: citizens suffering from diseases without the prospect of stabilisation, recovery or recovery should not be sent through resource-clearing processes? So these are groups of diseases where it is known that there is no prospect of improvement, not even stabilisation, but only worsening. It is not a specific diagnosis, but it is such a group of diseases. Could one not agree that it makes no sense to send this group of citizens into job clearance, knowing that it is only going downhill for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120330	I would say that we have almost already done so, because if it is the assessment that there is no prospect that you can get a job at any time, you should not smoke out in these courses. That's not the intention of it. So I think it might seem a little superfluous to have to write again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120352	It is not quite superfluous because we can see that it is happening. It's happening out there, so there's somewhere wrong, and it's with reference to the law that the municipalities say they have to do it, and with reference to decisions by the Ankestyrelsen. So there is a need to change legislation when this happens, despite the fact that the intention is different in the conciliation circle, one has to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120420	I do not, of course, agree that if the legislation is not followed, there is a need to change the legislation. Then there is more need to ensure that the legislation is followed. If it is the case that some people are misplaced, I do not think that it is solved by writing the same thing that is already in the law, with some other letters, because the law is, in fact, fairly clear in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120444	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120445	But the Conservative rapporteur has made it clear to me what is wrong here. It is, of course, that the Ministry of Employment and Employment are talking about sick people that they do not know anything about. That is why a law has been drawn up which makes it possible to push sick people out in the municipalities through something that only makes their condition worse. At the same time, I can hear from the rapporteur's speech that the problem here is also about some people thinking that others are doing it but nobody is doing anything. That's the kind of law we have. And whether or not we continue to say that we have a law that says that we should not do it, the municipalities are pushing them anyway. I'm trying to tell you to go to Hvidovre Municipality. Today there are a handful of people sitting there who still have to go through the process of clarification and something like that, even though everyone in here says they shouldn't. How do we ensure that the municipality lives up to what everyone here in the conciliation circle thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120549	I find that a little difficult to ensure as a legislator. I do not have the authority to ensure that the law is observed. You have to ask the Minister that. And specifically in relation to the municipality of Hvidovre, I think that the Danish People's Party should address their elected representatives. This is an area in which the Danish People's Party stands relatively strong, as far as I remember. They can ask them why their municipality doesn't follow the law out there. I cannot, as a legislator here in the Folketing, go out and sanction municipalities or force them to behave properly. That's not my competence. But it is true that I will not claim to be an expert on dementia. I also think it is very sensible that as a member of the Folketing we should know our limitations and not think that we know much better and know everything and that from here we can assess which diseases make people able to work and which diseases make people unable to work. There I am more confident that you will look locally at the individual citizen and take a position on his/her ability to work, rather than that we in the Danish Parliament set out some quadruple rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120703	Now I think there are so many square rules. I also understand that the rapporteur believes that we now have three questions on the same subject. I would like to point out that this is not the case. These are three different ministries, precisely because we have drawn up a national action plan, which Conservatives are also part of. That is why I am surprised that we will not talk about a particular diagnosis when it is in the field of employment, but that we will when it comes to health. And there are also other areas where Conservatives go out and say that we want money for hospice, we want money for sclerosis, we want money for... then you can mention specific diseases. Why can't you do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120741-2	In fact, I am not quite sure what is involved in the question of why we cannot talk about certain diagnoses. Here the Danish People's Party wants us to write into the law, that if you have any degree of dementia, you should not be able to be sent in job clearance. There is our view that the citizen's ability to work must be dealt with individually, rather than saying that it must be completely ignored, that anyone who has a very mild form of dementia can contribute anything at all. We think that's too square. We think it is more appropriate to look at citizens from person to person.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120825	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120826	Thank you. I do not know whether it is conscious or unconscious, but none of the parties behind this proposal for adoption believe that we should turn the light off the citizen or have a position that the citizen cannot contribute anything. On the contrary, the proposal says: 'The Parliament also wants people with dementia who want to remain in the labour market to have better opportunities for it.' So don't put it any different than it is. But the rapporteur talks a lot about not having square rules, and then I just ask: how square is it to ensure that people with diagnosis dementia should not be sent in job clearance or resource progression against their will? How square is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120907	I don't know how many degrees there are on the angles of that square, but I think it's pretty square to say that if you have any degree of dementia, then you shouldn't in a job clearance process. Because it may well be that with a mild form of dementia one can have something out of such a course. There we think it is more appropriate to assess the ability of citizens to work individually, rather than to set out in this Parliament what I would call fairly square rules on when there is no working capacity. We simply do not know about this, especially because it varies from citizen to citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420120948	Should we not just conclude that what the rapporteur thinks is that, as they do today, the municipalities should still have the opportunity to force people with dementia into a job clearance process against their will? That's what it's all about, isn't it? So if the rapporteur would just confirm that, then we can come to lunch in a hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420121013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420121014	I'm not the one who's stopping Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen in coming to lunch, this is Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen himself. He can just stop asking questions if he is sorry about the debate. But it is such a reasonably correct conclusion that we believe that people should be able to be sent in job clearance courses if it is that they in the municipalities consider that they have a working capacity or have the opportunity to get what makes them suitable for such a job clearance process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420121037	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. So the time has come to interrupt today's debates and we will resume them again at 1 p.m. 13.00. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130016	It is 1 p.m. and the Minister is here, but unfortunately the questioner is missing, and it would probably be wrong for the Minister to have the floor before we have the questioner in the Chamber. I don't know if it's the lunch break that's taken too long. We'll wait until the questioner is here, if that happens within a very reasonable time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130055	Then the questioner has arrived in the Parliamentary Chamber, and thank you for that. Then we can give the floor to the Minister for Employment for the final remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130110	Thank you for one, I think, very good debate, which has been here the last few hours before the midday break on an important issue, and we have come around widely. The theme was primarily dementia, but we have discussed many other aspects, and that is also the case, it can be said to those who had to sit and keep up at home that we will resume the discussion tomorrow, when the Enhedslisten knows the always industrious rapporteur Mr. Finn Sørensen has announced a similar debate, and I do not want to anticipate it, but just say that I think we are going to discuss some of the same themes that have been here today. I think it is important, as I have also repeated in my reply, that there is good sense in the fact that the starting point is the specific situation of the individual citizen and not the specific diagnosis, although a very serious diagnosis can of course make it more likely that an early retirement pension is the right one or at some point it will be. At the same time, it is also important to emphasise that active action makes sense. I hope that it is clear to everyone that it is absolutely crucial to me that no pointless action is taken when there is no labour market perspective. That is also what I have made clear, both to citizens with dementia and to citizens with other types of disease. That is precisely what the conciliation circle has very strongly emphasised with the new initiatives that I was going through here earlier today. There has also been a major discussion about whether the municipalities fully understand the legislation there is, and there have been examples, both today and not least in the past, of very unfortunate and unhappy cases, and that was one of them. also what led the conciliation circle to make a letter about resource sequences, which is a relatively large 20-page commute. At the same time, however, there has also been a letter to the mayors of the country to whom I, as Minister for Employment, am a sender. I would also like to sign that there are rapporteurs here today who have mentioned that concrete initiatives have been taken and, above all, that the letter to the mayors has been written in a very, very clear and easy to understand language, so that, if there is any doubt, we now know completely how to say the framework is for resource development. I also think it is important to say that it is not to neglect the Danish People's Party, it would be far from me that during today's debate has not least the diligent rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen, repeatedly stated that the requirements of the legislation for documentation are so strong that in any case very sick citizens must go through an offer to develop their ability to work. In addition, it has also been pointed out that the Ankestyrelsen requires documentation that the municipalities must test and try to develop their citizens' ability to work. Although that has been said several times, I think that some of the points which I have not thought have been made quite clearly need to be clarified. Finn Sørensen has asked questions to a large number of rapporteurs. I don't think that's because Mr. Finn Sørensen has done it out of bad will, but it may actually be that Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen has had some doubts about what it's like, and it's good to be able to use this opportunity to emphasise some things. Here, however, I would like to read from one of the central sections of the letter of orientation which was part of the conciliation circle's initiatives. Under the heading "Health information can in itself prove that there is a right to an early retirement pension', the following is shown, and I quote: "These are obvious cases in which the ability to function is permanently severely reduced and where the health information provides sufficient evidence that it is manifestly pointless to develop the ability to work. For example, it may be citizens with a significant disability due to development inhibition, persons with a severe brain injury or a person with severe suffering, where the medical treatment options are exhausted or hopeless, and where the prognosis is short-lived, or the disease is rapidly accelerating. In such cases, no resource sequences, company practices, etc. are to be undertaken. to improve the ability to work. Dementia is not now directly mentioned, but it is not an exhaustive list of diseases, and therefore the legislation does not mean that resources should be implemented, etc. if there is a serious dementia problem where the ability to work is permanently and substantially limited. Perhaps I should also say in this connection that the Ankestyrelsen has been involved in the preparation of the letter of orientation and that they therefore also agree that in such cases health information can in itself prove that it is the right to an early retirement pension. I think it is quite important to clarify that here today, if anyone thinks that very sick people are being sent through a process of resources in which there is no prospect of it helping them. But that must be my point. Thank you for the debate on an important issue, which is also a theme to which we will return, as many rapporteurs have also mentioned here today, when we do the evaluation here in the course of 2017, and I would also like to say that I am going to the evaluation with a completely open mind. There may be a need for things that need to be adjusted further, and if something needs to be adapted in the legislation, I am also willing to look at it. If you are not a minister, it does not make sense to invite an evaluation with an open mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130726	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130732	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I was late. I think there is a minister of health who feels neglected, so she held us for a little while. I am, of course, grateful for the answers given by the Minister. And I also think that there are many good tactics in this, at least there are thoughts that we should not drag any through the process of clarification. At the same time, however, I can hear that all those who are part of the conciliation circle say that an individual assessment must be made. I would like to clarify that. How to make an individual assessment? Now the Minister himself has said that it may be health information, and there I suppose it must be those who either a specialist or one's medical practitioner goes ahead with saying that there may be a diagnosis of it here and there, and that his health looks that way and so in the long run. But when you constantly say that it must be an individual assessment, I would say that that is what you are doing in a clarification process today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130834	Thank you. It's quite okay that the Minister for Health had a meeting that dragged on. I was here on time, but I don't want it to separate us at all, because I'm not doing anything for the time being, so everything is good. In relation to what needs to be done and can be done, I think it makes sense to refer to the written note that exists on resource sequences, and I will be happy to elaborate on it. But in that note there are among other things. There are a number of things that have gone through. So I would simply like to refer to it and, if there are any further questions, you are welcome to follow up with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130910	Thank you. I guess you're totally in on it. I've made it clear that you're gonna press in if you want to speak again. Didn't I? ) No, and if you want the word the second time, you press the button and it has not appeared here with me. Liselott Blixt It must be an oversight after lunch). All right, now I give the floor to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130932	Now I completely forgot what to ask. But when the Minister says that it is clear in the text, does that mean that you will not change anything in the legislation because you think it is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420130943	No, I think I misunderstood the question, and it can happen to the best of us. We are now making an evaluation which is based on all parts of the legislation that exist. It's not like I'm per. definition says that there are things that are sacred that we cannot discuss. I think it is crucial to say that, also in respect of the discussion we have had in Parliament today, in relation to the cases we have seen around the country, there may be a need, and I am open to making adjustments and clarifications. Because it is absolutely crucial to me and I think that everyone in the Folketing shares today that seriously ill people should not go through something that, if I may say so, does not have a perspective, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131031	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131034	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. As I hear the Minister quotes, and as I have read myself, there is nothing new about it, compared to what the law already says and what has been written many times in various guides and letters of orientation. So the question remains: if we have nevertheless seen all the examples from which everyone agrees to distance themselves, what will the Minister do in concrete terms so that the municipalities cannot send out citizens in these grotesque processes? That is, of course, the core issue, and we have not received an answer to that. Every time we've asked about it over the last 3 years... the reform has worked 4 years, I guess it's soon we've been told: Now we write to the municipalities and tell them to behave and do things right and right, and we repeat what the law says, and otherwise we have to get back to it when we evaluate it. In fact, I think there are a lot of people out there who would like a concrete answer to what the Minister will do to prevent the municipalities from sending seriously ill people into these grotesque processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131151	Just to those who cannot be told about it, I would say that it is not so long since I took up office as Minister for Employment. I have not yet had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment for three years. However, what I have set in motion, and which is a follow-up to what we have had discussions about in the conciliation circle, also during my predecessor, Jørn Neergaard Larsen, is that we have now given a more clear communication to the municipalities about how resources should proceed. And this package of initiatives is one offensive response to that. The other thing is, I'm also following this area. Of course I do. Sir. Finn Sørensen also helps me as a minister to follow it, by asking questions and by referring to specific cases around the country. That is why we are going to start with some of the things we have experienced in the evaluation that is taking place. I just think, with all due respect, that you should also accept the outstretched hand that is coming today. Although everyone cannot support the proposal for adoption, there is in fact a sincere desire in the conciliation circle to ensure that none of these unfortunate situations will arise in the future, which we have unfortunately seen. That must be what we must work for together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131314	Thank you. I know that the Minister has not been a minister all the way through, but the Minister has been a member of a party that is a conciliation party. If you look at the criticism of the bill at the time, which came not only from the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, which is not in that settlement, but also from a large number of interested organisations, then I have to say that nothing has happened that was not warned about. All the things we have seen I am not talking about concrete examples, those cannot be foreseen in relation to the way the law works, were actually warned against by many sides at the time. If you continue to repeat something that is already in the law, then it is natural that we should ask: what would it help to write it to the municipalities once more if you do not want to deal with what is the problem, namely that there is something raving wrong with the thinking of that legislation and that it is the one that needs to be changed so that we can get proper treatment of the citizens in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131422	In order not to anticipate tomorrow's question, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is the initiator and where we are going to discuss this topic more broadly, so I am going to take that discussion tomorrow. But I would like to say that, when I chose to help, I hope, to achieve greater clarity, it was because Mr. Finn Sørensen in this debate has been very one-eyed in relation to what has been quoted. I think it would be appropriate to say that, in obvious cases, the facts that are known can be put to the test very clearly. I just think it deserves an answer there. In relation to the reform as such and whether or not we are happy with it, I can say that I am, but this is a debate I think we can take tomorrow when we see each other again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131514	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131517	Thank you. In the course of the debate, we have been told by several rapporteurs that there is no reason to put forward the proposal for adoption that we have made, because the law has, in fact, taken care of what we want and letters have been sent to the municipalities, and there are raised finger points, so it is actually under control. So I just need to hear the Minister, have we seen the last case? Have we seen the last population affected by dementia, which is being costd in a process of resource clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131552	It is a question which is very difficult to answer. I hope we do not see these examples, but I cannot stand by and guarantee that everything is now going completely according to the book. So I can't make that promise. But I do hope that the local members of the Danish People's Party of the country's town council will also pursue this locally, so that you are aware of asking the right questions, among others. to the administration. There we are in the happy situation that Dansk Folkeparti has many council members around, and therefore I also hope that Dansk Folkeparti will make their influence felt at that level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131631	We do, and hopefully we will have more in not so long. But that's not really what this is about now. I'm asking you about the rules and frameworks that we're setting from in here. If you now agree with the conciliation circle that you do not want to see any more of these matters, I just want to hear: are you willing to make some consequences for the municipalities that are doing this anyway, despite the fact that it is against all the intentions and all the will in here? There must of course be a consequence if we break the intentions of the legislators.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131708	Now, in general, I am very much in favour of openness, but I think it might be too much of a degree of openness if, here in Parliament's chair, I am going to hold conciliation talks with the parties of the Folketing without having made an evaluation. So, with all due respect, I will be allowed to do so with the political parties that are behind this agreement, and then we will return to the discussion here in Parliament too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131733	No one else has asked for the floor, and then the negotiations have ended. I would remind you once again that the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Tuesday 25 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131751	I would point out that any votes on proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday 25 April 2017. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131819	Thank you. In December, the pool parties adopted the national action plan for dementia. It was a work carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Elders, which addressed major challenges in the field of dementia, among others. with means to increase the skills of caregivers, better investigation, more research and much more good. But the action plan was based precisely on the authority of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, which is why we have today raised these three questions to other ministers. For dementia is not just a disease that requires treatment, but a disease that affects a whole person and a whole family and has an impact on all the conditions of life. Therefore, this question to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, as dementia sufferers and their relatives also need interventions that fall within the social services of the municipalities. These are interventions which can often be difficult to obtain and which often do not take into account the fact that systems become particularly difficult when a dementia occurs. We look forward to the response and the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131933	Thank you. And then the question is answered by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, who is given the floor here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420131945	Thank you, President. The question debate we have now reached is about a better and more coherent procedure for people with dementia. Specifically, I have been asked how I will ensure that people with dementia can have a better and more coherent casework with as few case workers as possible and how I will ensure that applications for social benefits, help or support are made easier to access and fill. In fact, I am very, very pleased that we have this question debate, because it helps to highlight the fact that citizens with dementia can have diverse challenges that require a coherent and holistic process in the municipalities. Before answering the question, I would like to start by saying more generally that we in the government have a special focus on citizens with dementia and their relatives. And as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen just before, we concluded an agreement shortly before Christmas with the pool parties on the National Dementia Action Plan 2025, with a total of 470 million. kr. will be given priority to 23 new initiatives designed to give a significant boost in this area. And this is the first time that so much money has been allocated to that area. The Dementia Action Plan will include: help to create coherence and quality of action towards citizens with dementia and their relatives and to support Denmark becoming a more dementia-friendly country. One of the initiatives means that 12-15 centres of advice and activity are being set up throughout the country, and at these centres a number of offers are being made to citizens with dementia and their relatives, so that it will be possible for the same centre to get advice on a number of the different issues and challenges that one encounters when the disease hits. If I am then going to reply specifically to the question, I would say that the administrative rules say that it is the municipalities that are responsible for organising the procedure. The municipalities also have a separate obligation to ensure that citizens who may find it difficult to understand and, above all, difficult to understand procedures are also given the opportunity to participate in the handling of their cases. In the government, we believe that responsibility for the organisation of the procedure must be maintained in the municipalities. We do so because we believe that the municipalities are the closest to the citizens and also have the best conditions for organising the case-file on the basis of individual considerations in individual cases. For example: it will be possible for the municipality to organise a tailor-made procedure for a citizen with dementia who may need a little extra time to explain a procedural step or get help in filling out an application form. It may also be that, as a citizen with dementia, you need a little more time to guide choices in terms of help and treatment, and that is as well in relation to public and private, so that free choice is also strengthened. Here, too, dementia coordinators can play a crucial role by, for example, providing information and reference to the different local authorities' offers in the area of dementia. I am therefore also very pleased that according to KL today all municipalities have employed dementia coordinators. Indeed, in many places they are responsible for coordinating qualified action for citizens with dementia and, above all, for relatives. However, even if responsibility for the organisation of the procedure is located in the municipalities, this does not mean that nothing is being done centrally to support that the municipalities make the case as simple and understandable as possible and not least as transparent as possible for the individual citizen. So there are continuously developed tools that the municipalities can use. These are tools that can be used in the cross-sectoral organisation and coordination as well as within the individual municipality. The tools are general for the social area, but they can of course also be used in relation to dementia. The tools should help to ensure a better and more coherent procedure with as few case officers as possible. As appropriate tools here, I can mention coordinators in the adult field and the ODA project. In relation to adult coordinators, there is an action guide for the adult coordination function, where the action guide contains tools and associated implementation guides, which are central to cases where there are many actors involved and where the citizen also has continuous contact with the municipality. There are also tools and complementary guides that can be used in relation to new citizens with complex cases and to citizens who cannot coordinate a course themselves. The ODA project aims to improve the efforts of citizens with dementia and their relatives. The ODA contains tools that can help ensure a more coordinated interaction between the municipal authority, providers of care for the elderly and voluntary social organisations. And there are also ODA tools for analysing and planning the municipal organisation and coordination of efforts. So, in addition to the tools to support the municipalities' organisation of procedures in a more simple, understandable and transparent way, we in the government are also in the process of implementing regulatory changes to facilitate procedures in the field of aid for the benefit and benefit of both citizens and municipalities. This is done in the context of the review of the adult provision of the Services Act, where we are currently making the changes to the rules which will implement the political agreement of November last year. One of the regulatory changes is that we create the legal basis for the municipalities to be able to use a simplified procedure for processing applications for AT and consumer goods. And the procedure, which can be used in simple and unambiguous cases, means that decisions will be taken on the basis of the application alone, so that a remedy or consumer goods can be obtained more easily, but also more quickly. It could, for example, be done. be a GPS for a citizen with dementia. Another rule change is to make it compulsory for municipalities to use declarations of faith and law when regranting aids. This means that in cases where the reduction in function is unchanged and there is simply a need for a replacement of an aid, there is no need for a new procedure with the re-filling of application forms, a new collection of information, etc. etc. So it is enough for the citizen to sign a Declaration of Faith and Law as proof that the need is still present. I very much hope that these regulatory changes will help to facilitate procedures for both municipalities and citizens, and of course also for citizens with dementia. If I am finally to pick up a little, then it is the government's view that the responsibility for organising the procedure is best served by being kept out in the municipalities, but from a central point of view we must of course support that the municipalities make the case as simple, understandable, clear and transparent as possible for the individual citizen. For this reason, tools are also constantly being developed to help ensure better and more coherent procedures, as well as facilitating procedures in specific areas. However, in addition to this, the government will also discuss with KL how to increase the general awareness of municipalities to ensure better and simpler and more coherent procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420132639	We therefore wish to thank the Minister for the time being. Then we move on to the debate, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420132651	Thank you. When the world becomes less and less manageable for a citizen in Denmark, we as a society have a responsibility to make our systems as easily manageable as possible. What makes sense to the system doesn't always make sense to the public. The fact that different interventions come under different offices and administrations can focus on precisely the efforts that the individual employee has to deliver to the citizen, and that different services and various assistance efforts fall under different paragraphs, is clear for the caseworker to allocate the help, but this neat structuring and boxing need not be something that the citizen has to be presented with or something that the citizen has to relate to and understand in order to be able to get the help that is needed for the individual citizen. It must not and must not be difficult to get the help you need in Denmark. Period. And this is especially true when you are affected by a dementia. Dementia is a disease which, in relation to the subject we are discussing here, is so devilishly arranged that the more specialised support from the public sector you need, the harder you have to see through how to ask for it. Therefore, society has a very special obligation to make it clear to the dementia sufferer that the help that will enable the demented person to continue his life for as long as possible. That is why we are also pleased that the government will take this up with the municipalities, because this is where the task lies. New methods need to be found to simplify the way people meet the public. It's not the citizen's job to understand the municipality. It is the municipality's job to understand the citizen. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that citizens with dementia may have diverse challenges requiring a coherent, holistic and individual case handling. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government has a special focus on citizens with dementia and their relatives and that the National Dementia Action Plan provides funds for a significant increase in the area. The Danish Parliament agrees that responsibility for the organisation of the procedure is maintained by local authorities and believes that dementia coordinators play a crucial role in coordinating the municipal dementia efforts. The Danish Parliament has noted with satisfaction that, in order to support a simple and understandable procedure, tools are constantly being developed which the municipalities can use. The demented and their relatives must be informed of all options for help and treatment • private as public • so that free choice is strengthened. The Danish Parliament is therefore pleased that the government will discuss with KL how the municipalities' attention to generally ensuring a better, simpler and more coherent procedure can be increased. • V 80). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the further negotiations. And that is where we shall continue with the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133051	The Danish People's Party has requested a query debate on the terms and conditions of demente. They shouldn't be thanked for that. That is a good idea, because it is a difficult situation for citizens to face up to that diagnosis. On the other hand, the proposal for adoption put forward by the Danish People's Party seems a little strange to me, because it does not address much action, but mentions the parking space of good will. And it's a beautiful purpose, but it doesn't seem to move the world. We are of the opinion that action is needed and much more action is needed in this area. Dementia and, moreover, a number of other diseases have such an intrusive effect on the affected person and his or her relatives that we should be able to provide the very best response. Everyone agrees on an early approach, but the truth is that today the distance between citizens and the public is so great that it is not here that we can make an early start. Knowledge of the individual citizen in the individual administration is simply not sufficient to know whether there have been changes in the situation of the citizen. Here the relatives carry a huge task... often a task that is overlooked. We know that they often find it difficult to assess the scope of the signals that are the early symptoms of dementia and, incidentally, a number of other disorders. Often they have to rely on association-based initiatives which inform about the symptoms, but it is not the result of targeted action by the public actors on which this is based. It should be those who are the sustaining and the strong, also in the early stages. The citizen is entitled to an explanation in order to establish that the condition is dementia or another progressive illness. Often it is the general practitioner who is the next station after the next family member, and here we must work to ensure that there is a good knowledge of the citizen so that the doctor can assess whether there have been changes in the personality and behaviour that could indicate a disease. Therefore, there must be good access to a well-functioning health care system that can follow up on the assessment of the general practitioner. Once this foundation is provided, it is about the municipality having to follow up with the handheld effort that the demented needs. This should be our start to the debate, and then I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that citizens with a number of progressive diseases, including dementia, have diverse challenges that place great demands on coherent and comprehensive action. Early effort and investigation are essential to support and maintain health care in the best possible way. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still major challenges in providing people with these diseases, among others. Dementia, an early and coherent effort. The Danish Parliament notes that both municipalities and regions play an important role in ensuring coherent and comprehensive action for these citizens. The investigation must be carried out by the health service and the municipality must follow up with a handheld effort. The Folketing calls on the government to involve citizens with dementia and other progressive diseases and their particular problems in working with the closely related health care. The Danish Parliament invites the government to discuss with KL and the regions how attention to ensuring a better, simpler and more coherent procedure can be increased in general. • V 81). It was supposed to be our contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133509	Thank you to the rapporteur. The read-out proposal for adoption will be included in the negotiations here. There's a questioner, and that's sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133521	Thank you. Of course, it's always nice to talk about explanations and things like that, but now it's of course a question debate with the Minister for Social Affairs about casework and not with the Minister for Health about investigation, but leave it at that. I understand that the rapporteur is a little disappointed that the Danish People's Party has not put forward any action. That is because this is a proposal for adoption without legal effect. If we want action, we are going for resolutions or legislative proposals. That is where you can get something that signals action. But let's just leave it alone, let's look ahead, let's act together. I understand from a Gallup survey that it is precisely the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party that the people are looking for courage if something is to happen in the area of the elderly. What action does the Social Democratic Party see to be taken in relation to what the question is about, namely the case for demented people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133624	Well, in fact, we write that in the proposal for adoption that DF will not support, namely that there is a need for hand-held action in the municipalities. After all, it is absolutely essential that there is a handheld effort in relation to the individual citizen who has his or her specific symptoms at the stage of the disease that is progressing. So this is the handheld effort we want to ensure that the municipalities can live up to. Whether the municipalities will be better able to live up to this with the financial laws passed by the Danish People's Party together with the government, I shall not be able to answer that question, but Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133705	Now it may be that I am not so semanticly read and do not know so much about the meaning of words, but what is the difference between a hand-held procedure and one that we propose, coherent, holistic and individual procedure? How is handheld handling a better processing tool than a coherent, holistic and individual case handling when we are now being blamed for not doing it well enough in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133738	Well, I don't think there's much difference between what Mr. Jeppe Jamesen expresses. The handheld is just a more understandable expression for the ordinary citizen, i.e. that you have an expectation that you in the municipality will be met with, that the municipality is based on the situation of the citizen, and that it can be very different. It can be an early dementia diagnosis, or it can be a late diagnosis, and then there is a huge difference between the effort that needs to be made, and it is therefore up to the municipality to act on that course. So that is the effort that is needed. That is also why we are calling for not only the municipalities to deliver on this agenda, but also from the health care system that makes the diagnosis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133826	The next question is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133829	I must start by saying that I think we are actually completely wrong about each other in relation to the question and the response from the Social Democrats. After all, we have just drawn up a national action plan in which you are also involved on health care. This is about social benefits and how difficult it is when you get a diagnosis like dementia, i.e. that you find it difficult to get a guardianship, that you find it difficult to get a companionship, that it is difficult when you first have the diagnosis, to go to a nursing home, that it is difficult when you have to get tax.dk, when you have to get subsidies for your medicine, when you have to enter all sorts of other places where there is a procedure. It is a question of social benefits, it is not a question of clarification. After all, we have set aside money for this, and we have put forward a national action plan on this. I think this is gonna blow all over, so I'd actually rather not ask a question, because we're wrong about each other, and you blame each other for something that has nothing to do with it at all. This is about social benefits, and that's why the Minister of Social Affairs has the case. So it doesn't add up at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420133931	I do not know if it is not connected in Mrs Liselott Blixt's head. For me, it is very well connected, in other words, that the citizen who approaches his or her family needs to have a procedure based on the current situation of the citizen. And the municipality has to act on that. Some find it at a very early stage, others arrive very late - it is also part of the disease picture. So we have a huge expectation that the municipalities are capable of dealing with this, and therefore there is no difference in relation to the world that we are responding to this from here. There is a connection in relation to the fact that it is being established. And it is good that there is a national action plan, we do not avoid it at all, and we are in favour of the municipalities following up with the hand-held effort, which must reflect that these processes are very different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134026	[Sounds out]... may I ask: What does the explanation have to do with what we have up now? Why is it included in the proposal for adoption, that is to say, that clarification is important? It has. That's what puzzles me. We are just talking about the fact that there are dementia coordinators out in the municipalities. They are precisely the ones who make the handheld effort. That is what our proposal for adoption says, because it is they who must coordinate it. And that is why I believe that your proposals for adoption are not linked at all to what the question is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134057	I have to say that I think Mrs Liselott Blixt talks about the colours as the blind do. For example, there are no provisions to inform the municipality whether a diagnosis has now been made. There is no guarantee that a message will be handed over from the health care system to the municipality, which can then proceed with a case-by-case unless the citizen takes his case and his letter of discharge, or whatever it is, with, there is no certainty about it. These citizens are very weak and have a weak awareness of diseases and have few resources to draw on, and therefore there is a need for diagnosing health care to work much more closely with the social sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134146	With that, we thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Jane Heitmann on the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134157	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the debate today. It is an important debate, and we have it in the Left, just as it is in the Danish People's Party, so that the Dementia area is an area on which we have a very strong focus. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left Socialist Party. Today more than 35,000 Danes have been diagnosed with dementia. However, the total number of dementia victims is estimated to be much higher, adding that the number of dementia victims is expected to increase in the coming years. This places great demands on efforts in this area. This is also the reason why the government and the other parties behind the movement pool presented a national dementia action plan in the autumn, and with the plan we earmark almost half a billion kroner for the area until 2019, so that we can make Denmark a more dementia-friendly country both for the dementia-stricken and for the relatives. In presenting the action plan, the Minister of Health said that: "Demens is a large and complex area of illness." There is no doubt about that. That is why it is quite appropriate for us to invest in the demersal sector, which is why it is also gratifying that we agree politically above all on that particular priority. As far as the question here is concerned, as you know, it addresses the case-law in the social field: how to ensure that people with dementia have a more coherent case-by-case examination with as few case-by-case practitioners as possible and how to ensure that applications for social benefits and assistance or support are made easier to deal with. The Left's general approach to dementia is based on dignity, security and respect for diversity. These were also some of the values highlighted by the pool of rates parties in the context of the dementia action plan. And that is why they form the basis for the Left's approach to the debate on this question. The Left supports coherent action, because in our optics it leads to the most optimal procedure for both the dementia sufferers and their relatives. At the same time, we have the eye of the individual and its differences. Indeed, we must not forget to have a look at the individual, for the individual person is not in the process either. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left can support the motion for a resolution which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just read out from the platform. The Left is pleased to note that there are discussions with the KL and, in particular, that the text provides for the strengthening of free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134428	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134437	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has raised a question about people with dementia, and how they meet when they need help in the municipality. And what you can read from the question is that it is aimed in particular at how to ensure a better and more coherent procedure where there are as few case officers as possible, but also at how to ensure that it is easier to seek the social benefits that you may need to apply for. These are often complicated rules, as several have also highlighted when you need social assistance. It is also very common that the case officers who sit and have to deal with the applications that come in have large piles of cases and have to deal with a great many different citizens at once. And then there is the fact that the people who need help are often some people especially when it comes to dementia who have difficulty in understanding complicated processes. I think it is important to emphasise that it is not only for citizens who have dementia. A great many different citizens may find it difficult to understand the procedure. We see it as a symptom when we find in the social system that people of their own pockets pay private case workers and lawyers to go to meetings with the municipality. This is a sign that the legislation is too complicated and that one does not feel that one's legal certainty is properly taken care of by the municipality. It is emphasized in the question that it is important to ensure a coherent procedure and that there are as few case officers as possible. I fully agree with that, because I believe that the fact that you have to deal with a great many different people and you have to start over every time you have a meeting with the municipality feels like running your forehead against a wall for many citizens. And that's why I think it might be interesting, when we talk about this area, that we also have some of the experiences that are currently happening. In the area of children, where you are working to have a ceiling on how many cases a case worker is dealing with. We know it as Sweden's model, and it has become the Herning model, but it is thus subordinate. The point that we are setting a ceiling on how many cases are dealt with as a case officer, I think we can really be inspired by many areas other than the children's area, for example. also dementes need for a procedure in the municipality. The Dementia Action Plan envisages that there should be dementia coordinators in all municipalities, and that is very good, but the dementia coordinator is often not the one who has the proper procedure. There is a need for many others, and it might be appropriate to look at whether there are actually enough case-handling agents out there. After all, there is no money in the dementia action plan, and there I think we have a problem if we are to be able to make sure that there are few case officers in the meeting with the municipality. Finally, I would also like to add to the debate we have that when it comes to making it simpler and more manageable to go to when applying for social benefits, it is all right to develop tools for this sort of thing, but I think that is part of the problem that we see, with the forced digitisation that citizens are meeting with. The fact that you have to fill out applications digitally and that it is, at least as a starting point, the expectation that you as a citizen will do so, we know that we are a barrier, both for the elderly, but also for many others, because in this way you do not have such easy access to advice on what you really have of rights, how you seek and so on. It is extremely important that we stick to the fact that there is an opportunity to be exempted from forced digitisation when it comes to accessing what you are actually entitled to. Finally, when we discuss the dementia action plan, which is at least at the edge of today's debate, I think it is a major problem that it is financed through the rate pool, both because that funding is in itself abominable and paid by the people who have the least, but also because, by its very nature, it is temporary funding and we risk such a stop-and-go financing of an area, and I think that is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134921	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420134929	Thank you. People with dementia may find it difficult to understand and relate to what is happening around them. They can become very insecure by the slightest change in their everyday lives, because they need stability and as few, but recognizable people and surroundings as possible. They are very dependent on relatives or others who can help them with even the smallest little thing in everyday life, not to mention complicated things such as procedures in the public system. I have heard about application for stockings, which required an application in as many as five copies, and in addition to the fact that it is difficult, the application is associated with quite a few more costs than the support stocking itself. I can only support the introduction of more coherent and simple procedures for dealing with cases and applications, and I would also like to see a de minimis limit. This applies quite generally to all areas, and to people with dementia this is especially true because they will usually not be able to find their own way around all papers, procedures and many different case managers. LA certainly believes that a better and more coherent and less bureaucratic procedure with fewer case managers in all areas should be an objective, and in order to support this objective in the area of the elderly, among other things, the Minister for the Elderly has. set up a working group to propose ways of avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy in the future. In the social field too, work has been started to develop tools for this very purpose. One of the initiatives of the comprehensive national action plan for citizens with dementia is also the establishment of 12-15 counselling centres where citizens with dementia and their relatives can obtain advice and guidance from one and the same centre. In addition to being coherent, simple and with as little bureaucracy as possible, I also attach great importance to the fact that procedures must take account of the individual and that citizens are generally made aware of all options for help and treatment, both private and public, so that we strengthen free choice. The Liberal Alliance supports the text, which was previously read by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135210	We thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative that is on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135228	Thank you. Several people have said today that they are familiar with people who have dementia. My grandmother had Alzheimer's disease. It is a terrible disease and it has also been mentioned several times today that people with dementia are in a very special situation. So was she. I have seen for myself how serious it is for the person who gets dementia, and for the relatives, in other words the family, where everyone gets affected by the dementia. And although all the processes are different, we know, as has also been mentioned today, that this is a disease in which the disease itself cannot get better over time, unfortunately. But the individual's life situation and everyday life can be, and we must do everything we can to make it stay. One of the unreasonable things that is happening now is that people who fear having a dementia disease may be in danger of waiting up to 50 weeks to get through a trial at all and to be solved. This happens despite legal requirements for rapid investigation, which can be read on the Alzheimer's Association's website. This is, of course, quite unreasonable, because the better and the faster the processing and investigation is, the faster you get clarification and the faster you can get a meaningful everyday life with a better quality of life. The new national action plan for dementia, which has been mentioned sometimes today and in which we are also part of, provides for 145 million. kr. for better and faster detection of dementia. At the same time, we must also ensure that the government, together with the municipalities, pays attention to ensuring simpler and more coherent procedures, as is also mentioned in the adoption text in which we are involved. And we hope that these things together can make the everyday and life situation of the individual with dementia better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135450	With that, we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Kristian Hegaard. Because of the lack of facilities in this hall at least for the time being, Mr. Kristian Hegaard, the Radical Left, from his place. And here you go, the word is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135508	Thank you. Unfortunately, Dementia has come to stay and the number of dementias is going to increase. When there is an increase in the number of demented, there is also an increase in the number of relatives. Relatives as well as demented are in contact with case officers and visitation when the increasing need occurs on an ongoing basis. It's a really difficult situation. It is far nicer to enjoy the association with the person you love than to have meetings at the municipal office. However, help needs to be provided in the very difficult situation, so it is extremely important that contact with the help that needs to be provided is flexible. The last time should be spent with the demented, not with a lot of different case managers, not starting over with new case managers, not with uncertainty about who is now dealing with your case. This is really so essential a principle that it can be used in other areas too: in the area of the elderly, in the area of disability and in the area of vulnerable children. And the fewer case managers you're in contact with, the better. But what is important is not only the least possible case managers, because it is also a coherent patient process, and that is what we are focusing on in our proposal for adoption, because municipalities and regions have an important role to play in relation to each other. This is done, for example, with programme programmes in health agreements, with task boundaries and interaction relationships in a joint coordination and a coherent process to ensure that the next of kin and the sick person can have as much association as possible during the very difficult time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135706	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420135715	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting the terms of demente on the agenda. Let me also begin by revealing that I would have liked the Danish People's Party to have been a little more inclusive in relation to the target group for the debate. I agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that we should keep a close eye on the consistent efforts in relation to the procedures and conditions of people with dementia, but also in relation to other patient groups with progressive diseases such as AIDS. Parkinson's disease and sclerosis etc., because common to the diagnoses is that unfortunately it only gets worse. I am all the more surprised at the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which leaves the impression that things are actually going quite well. I do not want to fail to take this opportunity to express a wish that, in relation to citizens with dementia and other progressive diseases, we can improve our efforts in relation to procedures. Common to citizens who are diagnosed with such a diagnosis is that the only thing that is certain is that it gets worse. And besides the fact that this can in itself trigger a crisis, it also means a need for close, hand-held and coordinated cooperation between municipalities and regions. All too often, citizens who receive such a diagnosis must be on their own for far too long, and that is a pity for several reasons. Few people are aware of how to prevent the disease from developing rapidly and few are aware of any aids that might reduce the new challenges of everyday life. But prevention is important for the quality of life and secondary in this context too for the economy. It could therefore also make sense to see whether patients with progressive diagnoses receive one single plan of action, a plan in which case practitioners, home care and regional practitioners cooperate to address the challenges posed by the diagnosis, both in relation to jobs or pensions, in relation to various needs for medical assistance, in relation to aids that can facilitate daily life, and in relation to housing conditions where there may be a need for help both in the short and long term, and much more. That is why I am also pleased that several parties agree with a text for adoption, which at least recognises the challenge and insists on the need for special action, so that proceedings are conducted in relation to citizens, among others. Dementia must be hand-held and coordinated between regions and municipalities. The SF therefore also backs the proposal for the adoption of Mr. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140005	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140010	Thank you. Now there were some direct questions to you, not to ask questions along those lines, but you can do that sometimes, or wonder why we do not take the other diagnoses with us, and I have said that we are working together afterwards. I could ask the same question: why has the Socialist People's Party gone in and made a dementia action plan that only helps demente? Why do you only do family classes for relatives of people with dementia? And that is how I can put a lot of questions about what the national action plan contains. That is why we have called the question, and that is what we have tried to say repeatedly: we believe that when we make a national action plan, it must go in over all ministries. That's where we make mistakes time and time again in here: when we make some kind of arrangement, we make it with a ministry, but we forget to look over to another ministry to see that hooves go fucking ass, plainly said. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the proposal for adoption, as far as clarification is concerned, the most important thing. Now I haven't seen it yet, I haven't got it, so it's hard to remember, but I just know that a lot of questions were asked. Is that not part of the national action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140120	We have speaking time, and we also have rules that do not use swear words in this Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140129	Well, you got it, Mrs. Liselott Blixt. I have read the query text today, as if it is also about looking at the coherent casework with as few case managers as possible in relation to people with dementia in isolation, i.e. something with applications and something with case managers. So I am thinking that the question debate will also give rise to a more wide-ranging look at what might be needed to be coordinating with citizens with dementia, and here I am just trying to say, as I did in the previous debate, that I think it could also be transferred to other areas where there are people with progressive suffering, namely that of having one case worker who can stick to what it is now, they say in the hospital in relation to my current situation, what these are for some aids I may need here and now, and which I may need in the long run, etc. It makes really good sense, and that was really just the point I wanted to pick up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140237	I look forward to that, so the day I come with the next action plans in the field of Parkinson's disease and sclerosis, I know that we have a support for it may also be that we can do it together. However, where I am going is that the reason why you call the Minister for Social Affairs for a question is because you have to do some things in that area. The Ministry of Health and the investigation and all these things we have set aside money for, so this is all about when you go up to your municipality, you get the help you need in the social services.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140314	But it is really thought-provoking that once the region has completed its investigation, it does not automatically go to any municipality, because that is the way our system is set up, so it is actually the individual citizen who should be actively seeking out in relation to the municipal case officer himself afterwards. I would like to think that it was possible to think together in relation to citizens who have progressive suffering, because the only thing we are sure of is that it is getting worse, and that is why there is also a need for some people who can always keep their hands on what the next step could be in relation to the need for help. It could be housing, it could be retirement, it could be medical grants, it could be aids, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140401	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140408	Thank you. Shortly before Christmas, the government concluded an agreement with the pool parties on a national dementia action plan towards 2025. In the coming years, we have set aside 470 million. kr. Priority over the four years to 23 new initiatives to give a significant boost in this area. I think that must be the most important message, and then you can have a discussion where you go down. This is the first time that so much money has ever been set aside in this area. The National Dementia Action Plan is now on its way to work for the benefit of people with dementia, but certainly also for the benefit of relatives. The relatives are here a very, very large and strained category, which we need to focus on, because they are the ones with many of the tasks. It is gratifying that according to KL all municipalities have employed a dementia coordinator. It's to coordinate these things and these focus areas that are in the national action plan. We have previous tracing, better quality care, support for people with dementia and relatives, dementia-friendly housing and increased knowledge and competence levels. When we go in and look at it, it turns out that there are a lot of players in this area. I have worked a lot with the dementia area in the municipal context, and I can say that we are constantly getting new publications. Most recently, a magazine has arrived here at Easter from the social educators, which has a kick-in to how we tackle the problem of the demented. There are many different players in that area. That is to say, it is an area in rapid development and fortunately for it. That is why we are also embarking on a national action plan, which is why it is spreading like rings in the water. This means that the municipalities will have a lot of knowledge, partly from the 12-15 centres of advice and activity we are in the process of establishing, partly from the expertise that is at regional level, but indeed also from the municipal institutions. In the small municipality up at Lemvig, from which I come, we have long been working on a dementia action plan, and we have now created a special centre for demented, simply to concentrate and gather these tasks. I know that many other municipalities are also in the process of doing so. That is, of course, the essence of it, i.e. that you come from a regional framework where you have a diagnosis and then come home to your municipality and are helped in that area, and there are dementia coordinators very, very important players. We've come a long way in Denmark in this area. We can go much further. We know that this is a very complex area. As has been mentioned several times over 200 diagnoses. So that is a very difficult problem, also because it is a disease which strikes where you do not imagine it will strike. This means that it is both the person who gets the disease, but indeed the relatives who get the disease. That is why we have, for example. in my municipality also long established and established a day center for demente, so that demente can simply enter. And that means that the next of kin can have a free time or two or three, because all of these measures help to get a decent everyday life, but maybe at the same time they can still hold together as spouses. We are in the process of a process which I believe will give development in many different areas which we cannot foresee at all now. I think we are on the right track and the Conservatives support the proposal for adoption, which has been read out by the DF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140818	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And then it's the Minister again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140824	Thank you for that, President. I would very much like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the debate; this is an important area. And then I would like to say that it has been very rewarding for me as a minister to listen to today's debate with all the rapporteurs for each of their areas who have contributed to it. There are both social rapporteurs, health rapporteurs and older rapporteurs, and it is just before one might think that the last rapporteur could also have been a municipal rapporteur; at least there was also a good municipal perspective. Listening to the very diverse perspectives has been very useful and inspiring, and I would like to thank you very much for that. Then I am glad to note that the Danish Parliament is pleased that we in the government have a special focus on the dementia area. And I have also noted that there is satisfaction that we in the government will discuss with KL how the municipalities' attention to ensuring a better, simpler and more coherent procedure can be increased. But most of all, I would like to thank you for seeing the joint commitment to dementia as a disease demonstrated by all the rapporteurs in this Chamber, regardless of the rapporteur's cap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140940	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420140949	Thank you. That is precisely what is characteristic of dementia. It is that there are huge numbers of areas in which dementia affects. After all, an action plan has been drawn up, which is essentially the action plan of the whole nation and of the entire government and parliament, and so I would like to ask whether there are any considerations within the Ministry of Social Affairs to perhaps go a little closer to some of the things and say: could we here adjust a little better so that we also take account of dementia? One of the things that I am often presented with is that the Service Act has one paragraph for help for the dementia sufferer and one paragraph for relatives. But there is no such thing as the one called help for the family, that is to say, demented with their relatives, so as to ensure a more coherent effort in the social effort. Is that something you might imagine you would like to look at in the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141049	At any rate, I think it is really important to continue along the path in which we create more clarity, create more coherence and also more simplicity, so that it also becomes easier in the municipalities. One of the things I mentioned in my speech is that, as recently as in the draft law we have been discussing not so long ago, we are dealing with the adult provisions of the Services Act, among other things. look into how we create the legal basis for the municipalities to be able to use a more simplified procedure. I mentioned the fact that we make it compulsory for the municipalities to use these beliefs and laws, so that if you need an aid and demented you may also need an aid, for example a GPS, but it could also be other forms of helper, you have to go through a long application process again, but that if you have the same need, you can simply sign a declaration of faith and law, and then you get the same remedy re-assigned. I think that is something we have been aware of for a while, but I think that is something we will also be aware of in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141155	I just don't think it's just dementia. That's a lot of other people. Parents with handicapped children are also in a situation where one individual's accident affects a family. Does the Minister not agree that legislation could be adapted to that? If we are to look at it all, at a more complete effort, we may need a column of action next to relatives, next to the affected, called family relations, as a collective effort pool. Instead of trying to combine legislation, you could find one paragraph that could look at a family that is often affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141250	At least I think these are very, very inspiring thoughts. I believe that all of us who are elected would like to ensure that the law that has been passed is also easy to interpret, easy to access, so that it is simple for municipalities to know how to take the legislation down and how to use it. There is just one word on the part of the rapporteur that triggers me, and that is child disability. After all, it is no secret that I have a rather sharp eye here on whether or not the law is followed. Unfortunately, we have seen in the area of children's disabilities that there is a very, very high percentage of changes, that is, either where the matter is returned to the municipalities or where the matter is simply changed. When we reach that almost 50%. I think that this is a very high figure. That's also why I made this so-called clothesline, where we just say: well, then we get to show what kind of municipalities have high conversion rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141359	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposed amendments will take place on Tuesday 25 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141418	Please explain the reason for the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141440	Thank you. This is now the third question we have with a new minister. That's very nice. That is what we think could be very good: that we had an action plan that simply spread across all the ministerial areas involved, for example. people with dementia to do. The reason for this question is precisely that we see people who, for example, are ill-advised. the diagnosis of dementia, which is dragged through a number of legal proceedings and ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings, although it is known in advance that the person concerned cannot actually be judged on the grounds of permanent inability. Incalculable at the moment, that is what the Glostrup court said about an elderly woman who had attacked a health care provider. But even if she could not be punished because of her dementia, she still had to pay the costs. That was the title of an article in Information last year. Of course, it is not okay for staff to be attacked when they do their job. But to conduct a process, although one knows that the person himself is not aware of his or her actions because of a severe dementia, we at least in the Danish People's Party believe that he or she is unnecessary. It doesn't help the employees, it doesn't help the sick, and it doesn't help the family who gets charged to pay for the trial. At the same time, we are using a lot of resources in the judiciary, which could have been used much better. That is the reason for the question we are raising, as we believe we can secure it in other ways. I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141626	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then we are ready to answer the question, and that is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420141641	Thank you. Thank you for the question, in which I am asked as Minister of Justice to explain how I will ensure that persons who, for example, have the diagnosis of dementia are not to be dragged through legal proceedings and be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings, knowing in advance that they cannot be judged on the grounds of permanent insanity. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I fully recognise and share the concern about the permanent involvement of the judicial system in criminal proceedings raised by the questioners. In other words, I have a great deal of sympathy with the difficult situation in which people who are permanently incompetent find themselves. It is my basic view that we as a society are obliged to deal with vulnerable groups of people, and this also applies, of course, to the long-term intolerable or mentally deviant, as they are also called, even though it may not sound so good, but that is the term, but do not misunderstand me now. The questioners and I are in complete agreement on that. Before I go into what I think of the question, I would like to outline how our penal system is actually designed in this area. Criminal proceedings against mentally deviant persons are dealt with from a different point of view from normal criminal proceedings, and that is with good reason. Mental deviants often find it difficult, and they do not always understand the general standards of society or the consequences of their actions. In such cases, therefore, the prosecution may, in certain cases, give the person an indictment instead of bringing the case before the court for an order for a measure to be imposed. Indictment is used, especially when you have already received a treatment sentence. If, as a result of past crime, you are already subject to a measure, the case may be closed with an indictment, unless there are very special circumstances which argue against it. The prosecution is therefore already fully focused on these cases and can end with indictment rather than initiate criminal proceedings in the courts. It is therefore by no means all cases of this type that end up as criminal proceedings in the courts, and I think that is an important point to make. It also shows that there is already an understanding in the legal system of the difficult situation, such as: permanent inhabile can be found in. The cases that then end up in the courts will typically be more serious cases where there may also be consideration for the victim or for the sense of justice. If a person is found guilty of criminal proceedings but is punishable by his or her psychic condition, the courts have the possibility of judging a court judgment if it is appropriate to prevent further offences. This means that the mentally deviant perpetrator, for example. will be able to stay in a settlement or may be subject to outpatient treatment. It is an important point here that although the person concerned is not usually punished by, for example, a prison sentence is imposed on a so-called measure when further offences need to be prevented. I think this is the right arrangement, because we cannot have a community of law where certain groups of people can commit without responsibility, for example. violence, without society reacting and trying to prevent it from happening again. On the other hand, of course, we need a legal system that takes account of the very special situation of these people, both in assessing whether criminal proceedings should be conducted at all and in assessing how criminal proceedings should be decided. In this respect, let me make it quite clear that, fortunately, this is also how our legal system works today. There is an appropriate balance between understanding and inclusiveness in relation to people who face these very specific challenges and the concern for victims and the need to prevent further crime. Another question, then, is whether it is reasonable that, if one is found guilty of criminal proceedings but is free from punishment as a result of his psychic condition, one should in all cases be ordered to pay the costs. In my opinion, it is a fundamental and correct principle that the person to be judged should be ordered to pay the costs rather than the State. This applies regardless of whether the perpetrator is sentenced to an ordinary sentence or whether the perpetrator is free of punishment as a result of his condition and is instead sentenced to a treatment sentence. However, according to the rules in force, the courts may, after a specific assessment, decide that the liability for costs in criminal proceedings should be limited if it would otherwise be manifestly disproportionate to the guilt and conditions of the sentenced person. This exception applies today, for example, to cases where unnecessary expenditure has been incurred and in cases of principle which are being conducted by all the bodies to determine the future legal situation. In practice, however, the derogation is not applied in cases such as those we are discussing here today. I agree with the questioners that one might ask whether it is quite reasonable now that a convicted mentally deviant should in all cases be ordered to pay the costs. Therefore, in the next session of the Assembly, I will present a legislative proposal amending the exemption provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure, so that the courts will have a better opportunity to assess whether, in a specific trial, it is reasonable for a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his psychic condition to pay the costs of the proceedings. At the same time, the comments to the draft law will indicate that the current practice whereby a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his or her mental condition has to pay costs has to be changed, so that in future a concrete assessment of reasonableness can be carried out in which particular consideration of those persons can be taken into account. It will hardly be possible to draw up more firm guidelines, as these cases are very different and there is a great difference between how and to what extent a psychic deviation is expressed by the individual. That is why we need it to be assessed on a case-by-case basis in the courts. So the amendment of the law is simply intended to give the courts a better opportunity to balance the various concerns of these criminal proceedings. I am fully confident that the courts can, of course, deal with this within the framework that we are setting here in the Folketing. The courts already determine the penalty in criminal proceedings and are used to having to carry out concrete reasonable assessments. However, I hope that I have answered the question very clearly, and I am sure that we all share the view that society must of course conduct criminal proceedings against mentally deviant persons only if there is a specific need for it, and that is the way the rules are drawn up. Special attention is now being paid to mentally absenteeism and a possible treatment judgment will be determined according to what is necessary to prevent the person concerned from committing new crime. It's okay. It's okay. On the other hand, I agree with the questioners that it does not seem reasonable in all cases to have to pay the costs as well. And on that point there may be a need to change the rules, as I have then clarified. I hope that in this debate there will be well received the hand-out for a future amendment of the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420142440	We are therefore grateful to the Minister for Justice for the time being. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420142453	How nice it is to stand here today at the third question, because we started quite early this morning, and it has been about people with dementia, because we have just had a national action plan for dementia. The first question we did not agree on, in the next one a little more agreed, and now it seems that we are all in agreement and that the Minister is actually doing something about it. That's a good way to end today's inquiries. As we see it in the Danish People's Party, it is very good that we are giving some money for investigation, and we have just set aside money to dress up relatives and create networks. We strengthen the competence of the staff out there, which is also important, but what does it do if one of the people who is extremely outgoing has to be dragged through a case like this? It was an unfortunate story that made us stand here. Because we know that with the diagnosis of dementia there are a great many forms of dementia, we have heard earlier today that there are 200 forms, as the Left Health Rapporteur said, so we have to believe that, and unfortunately there are some that are worse than others, one might say. For some, being difficult is something that makes it necessary to ensure that when they reach a care centre, there are the right competences. I sincerely hope that we will now get a promise from the efforts made by the national action plan. It is also important that there are some activities and that we ensure that they are not filled with a lot of medicines; these are the measures that have been taken. Because in this way we also know whether there are problems and whether there are enough staff, because that is not always the fault of the outgoing person. So for the sake of both the staff and the sick, we must ensure the best possible. Having said that, we know that a single person in powerlessness can strike and hit the staff, and unfortunately you think in some places that in order to get a job injury compensation you have to report it to the police, but you do not have to. I know that there are some professional organizations that say that, but there are therefore exceptions in these very cases. That is why it is also a waste of resources and unhappy for those concerned to run a trial when they are so ill that they are not aware of their actions. In this case, the woman was not punished because of her mental condition, and, according to the book of the judgment, the defendant at the time of the crime was erratic because of a condition comparable to mental illness. Instead, the court decided that the elderly woman should continue to live in the sheltered care home, where she was already a resident, and even if the woman was not punished because she was erratic, she was nevertheless ordered to pay the costs, and that was DKr 13,000. This is a great deal of money for a sick person who has nothing but his retirement pension, the vast majority of which goes to pay for care at the nursing home. So these are some of the things that we want to change, and I hope that this will be done by the amendment proposed by the Minister for Justice. Then we will at least be free from these unfortunate situations, and then we hope that the national action plan will lift the area and that there will be more warm hands, less medicine and some happier people with dementia. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the fact that there are already special rules for the prosecution of offences committed by permanent inhabitants and that far from all cases of this nature end up as criminal proceedings in the courts. The Folketing acknowledges that it is a fundamental principle that the convicted person must pay the costs of the proceedings over the State in criminal proceedings. At the same time, the Folketing notes that the rules in force restrict the ability of the courts to make a concrete and individual assessment of the fairness of the payment of the costs of a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his mental condition. The Danish Parliament notes that, in the next Assembly, the Government intends to propose amendments to the Code of Procedure so that the courts can assess whether, in a specific criminal case, it is reasonable for a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his psychic condition to pay the costs of the proceedings. V 82).
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143002	Thank you. The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the further negotiations. And we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143020	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this query debate. It is our concern that people who have a mental illness, a disability or a dementia disease should not be dragged through unnecessary legal proceedings or have to pay large sums of money in legal costs. People suffering from dementia or a mental illness must be able to receive treatment that is fair and fair and that takes account of the fact that they are suffering from a disease. They should not be exposed to the cost of acts over which they are not mastered because of their illness. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is essential both to protect the sick, but also, of course, those people who are subjected to violence or assault by someone who is ill and most often staff who work with vulnerable citizens. It is important to emphasise that their terms and security are very important to us. We must ensure that those who work with the most vulnerable people in our society and make a huge effort are not subjected to violence and/or abuse. As the rules are today, the court already has the opportunity to exempt a convicted but non-criminal person from paying legal costs. If a person has been declared permanently incompetent because, for example, he suffers from a dementia disease, it is already possible to be exempted from the costs of the proceedings. It is up to the court to judge in the individual case, which is why we also see that some will pay, including demente. It is precisely on this basis that this question has been asked, in other words because there are apparently cases where people who have clearly been severely demented have been convicted and forced to pay legal costs, and that does not make sense. We would like to help to see whether it can be done better, in other words to ensure that persons who have been declared ill are too ill to be liable for their actions and are declared ill, to be exempt from criminal liability and to pay costs. We think that is sensible. That is why we are also pleased that the focus is being put on the area and that it is being looked at whether there is anything we can do better in the future. Because, of course, it has to make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143235	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143244	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate here. In fact, in the Left we have it as in the Danish People's Party, namely that demente and their living conditions are very close to our hearts, and we have a common ambition with the Danish People's Party to ensure that people with dementia live a dignified life in every way. I should like to welcome the rapporteur for the Legal Affairs Committee, and I shall begin by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. As far as this debate on questions is concerned, perhaps we should try to define the subject, because I assume that only legal costs are mentioned in criminal proceedings, not in civil cases, which are of course between two citizens. In criminal proceedings, the State bears the cost of the actual operation of the court, i.e. the judge's salary, the prosecutor's salary, the rent, etc., and if a defender is involved, the sentenced person must pay a fee for this, and that is surely the expense that we are talking about in the debate. Then how many cases are we talking about? I am not actually quite clear about this, but there has certainly been an increase after it became a condition that public servants, for example. Nursing staff must report a case to the police for compensation from the Counsel for Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims of Victims. I know that the Minister for Justice is looking at that rule, and there is good reason for this, since the police have enough to do, and since a sentence that is convicted is very rarely punished, according to the provisions of paragraphs 16 and 69 of the Criminal Code. Even if a dement is convicted but is exempted from punishment under these provisions, he is still in danger of being sentenced to legal costs. This may seem unreasonable, and we already have a provision in Article 1008 (1) of the Code of Procedure. 4, according to which the court may and I quote "limit the liability for costs where it considers that otherwise this would be manifestly disproportionate to the guilt and conditions of the sentenced person. It is obviously not being used, and we therefore welcome further clarification and the Minister's announced initiatives. The Left can support the adoption text, which the Danish People's Party rapporteur previously read out, and the same applies to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143511	We thank Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143518	Thank you. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising this query debate. I also believe that the rapporteur for the questioners himself referred to an example of a case that has been involving a difficult demented woman from Rødovre who had attacked a nursing home, and this led to the nursing home reporting the woman concerned to the police. The police interrogated the woman, despite the fact that it was not actually possible to have a real conversation with her, and an indictment was also made. The prosecution considered that the case should be brought because the woman concerned had previously attacked other staff and those cases had also been reported. Although the woman was too sick to take part in this trial, since she can neither speak nor remember herself, the trial was carried out anyway, but it was concluded that she could not be punished because of her illness. It is clear that it is an absurd situation for her to end up being able to pay the costs, and it is only good that we agree that we must look at that and change it. That part of the proposal for adoption can also be fully supported by the Enhedslisten. If we are not co-sponsors of it, it is simply because there is a completely different sentence that we do not agree with and therefore we will vote yellow on the proposal itself. I also think it is worth including, as the rapporteur from the Left has just said, that there is a fundamental problem in the fact that there is a view that police reporting is necessary when staff are subjected to violence at their workplace, for example. of a citizen who is demented, or it could also be other citizens who work with, for example. Out-to-date young people, the handicapped and others. It is a fundamental problem that it is very difficult to have access to compensation and that there is also an understanding that it must be reported to the police before you can obtain compensation. So it is a fundamental need that we have to look at those rules. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject in the past, together with others. The Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, which now sits in the Ministry of Justice, and the SF, where we looked at whether we could not examine this area more thoroughly, lay out what could be of opportunity to ensure full compensation when you as an employee are subjected to violence at work. I think that would help to reduce this problem, but of course there is also a separate problem in the fact that you can be ordered to pay the costs, even if you cannot be judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143802	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420143815	Thank you. The question is whether people with dementia or mental illness, or who are otherwise permanently ill, should go through legal proceedings and pay legal costs. People with dementia, permanent inhabile or persons with other mental illness may find it difficult to understand and relate to what is happening around them, and therefore they may be at risk both to themselves and to others. We must help these people as best we can, but by violent behavior towards other people we must always take account of the victim. There must be a sense of justice and we must do what we can to prevent further attacks from taking place. There must therefore be procedures for deciding what to do with the violent person, even if he is a mentally ill person. Such a procedure may be criminal proceedings, which is far from always the case. However, for people who have been declared permanently ill due to dementia or other serious illness, there should be the possibility of an individual assessment, so as to avoid practices that are inappropriate, both for citizens and for society. Nowadays, there are already specific rules which require that in many cases where there are mentally deviant persons there should be indictment. In criminal proceedings where this is not done and the accused is judged, it is the convicted person himself who has to pay his costs, and not the State. That should continue to be the starting point. However, there may be cases in which it does not seem reasonable for a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his mental condition to pay the costs of the proceedings. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Justice is going to look at a change of law that allows the courts to make an individual assessment of whether, in a specific case, it is reasonable for a convicted mental illness who is free of punishment to pay the costs of the proceedings. The Liberal Alliance supports the adoption text read out by Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144050	I understand from the Danish People's Party, which has taken the initiative for this inquiry debate, that the starting point is a story from Information. This is also the story I intended to take as a starting point here in my rapporteur's speech, and perhaps it is because it may be a little difficult to actually find some stories and find out what is happening in relation to violence in nursing homes and demented ones. But I have been able to find out that in 2015 and 2016, the Labour Inspectorate found that there had been violence in nursing homes or in home care 34 times. So, 34 times, there had been violence in nursing homes or home care in 2015 and 2016. But I'm gonna start from the story of this woman anyway, because I think it's an important story and an important experience in relation to what it's all about today. One night, this 78-year-old demented woman attacked a social and health worker who worked as a substitute in a nursing home in Rødovre, where the elderly woman is placed. The social and health care provider got a blow to the neck and was pulled in the hair, and a little later that evening the elderly woman tore the helper on the forearm and hit her several times on the body. And the woman attacked twice again an employee in this nursing home. On behalf of the two employees, the nursing home reported the attack to the Police Department of Copenhagen, and the woman's husband says in the article that his wife was tried by a police officer to write a report, but according to the husband it was a bit of a farce because his wife didn't understand anything about what was going on around her. And after five minutes, the interview was also interrupted, says the man. She was then found guilty in the Court of Glostrup in breach of Paragraph 119 of the Criminal Code. 1, with a penalty of up to 8 years. It is therefore a question of attacking someone, who is responsible for acting under public service or public service obligations, with violence or threat of violence. The woman had been relieved, as was also mentioned, from attending court because, according to the doctor, she was unconscious of her actions and needed help with all functions of daily life. And because of the woman's mental condition, she was not punished, but she was ordered to pay the costs of a total of DKr 13,000. It is, of course, a lot of money for a sick person who has nothing but his old-age pension, where most of it goes to pay for the nursing home. It is the story of this woman who is at the root of the question debate we are having today, and I would like to stress that people with dementia as a starting point are not violent or out-of-date. But there may be some circumstances in their situation or some needs that are not being met, or something in the environment that is not optimal and that makes people with dementia able to become outgoing. And in the alternative, we want to make every effort to ensure that people with dementia do not get into these situations where they become violent at all. Having said that, we believe that there is a need to look at such cases and that it is a good idea to create the conditions for a more individual assessment, including in relation to the payment of costs. And we therefore look forward to the government putting forward a bill which looks at the possibility of being able to make a concrete and individual assessment of whether it is fair that a convicted person who is free of punishment as a result of his psychic condition should pay the costs of the proceedings. And we are therefore also included in the proposal for adoption by the government I assume it has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144548	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. No one has asked for brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144557	Thank you for this third question on dementia. This has been a fine and thorough debate today on the subject and I think it has shown that there is a good common understanding of relevant issues in this area. Although it is gratifying that our average life expectancy is increasing, it is of course really, really sad that more and more people are getting dementia. It is a basic condition that we must deal with and create the best possible life situation and maximum dignity from. It is a really difficult situation to deal with both for the affected person and for the next of kin. You suddenly face a lot of situations that can be difficult to deal with with with multiple dilemmas. Everyday life isn't what it used to be. The demented may act in a way that has not been done before. Of course, account must be taken of the difficult situations in which one may, as a dement, put oneself in, because one's body and mind do not necessarily act in the same way as in the past and do not act on the same orders as they have done in the past, resulting in potentially unintended incidents. This is among other things. That is why there are the special rules here for the prosecution of permanent misconduct, and that is also why the Radical Left supports the proposal for adoption, which also indicates that further legislative proposals are expected in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144731	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420144739	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting this debate on the agenda. As a former representative of FOA members in Aarhus, I have unfortunately often learned how both citizens and employees get into trouble when, as a society, we do not manage to shield citizens who, due to illness, behave violently. For it must be our first priority that we avoid completely the abuse of other citizens or employees by citizens due to illness or other form of disability. This requires, first and foremost, sufficient resources and competences for those who have to take care of the sick citizens. The question debate here is therefore also a good example of the fact that what has been saved is not always served. However, once the damage has been done, we as a society should assume responsibility for it, as long as violence and other harmful reactions that affect other citizens or employees are not put to the disadvantage of the sick citizen, to the extent that the cause is illness and/or social impotence. Unfortunately, there are a number of examples of the fact that reports of violence and the resultant prosecution of the sick citizen are a prerequisite for the employee to be able to receive compensation from the Violence Victims' Board. There is real room here for debureaucratisation, which can benefit both the sick citizen, the employee and the economy. Unfortunately, there are also a number of examples of the judicial system dealing with cases which we can all see in advance are unfair, both in relation to the sick citizen whom we fail to protect, and in relation to the employee who is forced to prosecute a sick citizen or alternatively renounce a legitimate claim for compensation for occupational injury. Summa summarum: First of all, we must seek to protect sick citizens so that they do not expose others to violence due to the mental condition. When the accident is out, as a society, we must assume responsibility for failing to protect the sick citizen. And, of course, we must ensure that employers are responsible for ensuring that the employee or the citizen who is subjected to violence caused by a sick citizen for whom we were responsible is kept indemnified in relation to compensation, both for occupational injury insurance purposes and in relation to the applicable rules for compensation to victims of violence. SF notes that the Minister for Justice's proposal for adoption takes account of the particular need to look at the legislation in those areas, and we therefore fully endorse the opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145023	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145030	Thank you. I don't want to add much. I really think it has been quite well expressed in the various speeches that what we are discussing is precisely the balance between the sense of justice and how it is fair to treat people, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have had a debate on this subject. It's people who can't help it, to put it a little simple. Today there has been a longer debate in the Danish Parliament which has covered several areas, and if I just have to stay very close to what I have to say about it, because I think it is actually quite generally exciting to discuss how we deal with those of our fellow citizens who have such a suffering, then I interpret what I have heard today, so that we are quite well in agreement with each other in here, and that the question debate has also shown that there will be support for the amendment of the law that will come later, so that the courts will have a real opportunity to decide that there will be no legal costs to be paid. There is one possibility today, but it is not used in this particular area because the provision is simply too narrow for it, and therefore there is a need for a change of law, and I very much look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145206	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, for concluding remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145217	I would like to take the opportunity to speak here for rounding. Now some of us have been sitting here for four hours and to those who have done so I would like to thank you for the debate, but I would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have been here only part of the time. Thank you to the Minister who came here at the end and made a little positive input, so it was certainly not all wasted. I would like, when we make legislation in here, to be able to move more into the territory of various ministries, so that we do not only think in terms of a single ministry, because that is many times where it lags when we get into society. That is also what we wanted to draw attention to with the three questions, because we felt that some of the national action plan was missing. I and my colleague, Elder rapporteur, Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen knows that we are not finished yet, because there are still ministries which we think may be relevant when it comes to people with dementia and which we can include in some questions. But thank you for the good debate. I'm sure some people can move on now, so thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145335	We say thank you, too. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 25 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145348	The debate is open. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145410	Thank you for the floor, President. It is, after all, a very long debate that we have had, not only here in the Danish Parliament, but also with the entire Danish population, about what status should actually be for Denmark's future association with Europol. After all, it does not always happen that it is an entirely united Parliament that is behind an agreement like that offered by the European Union to Denmark. I should not hide the fact that we would have liked the Social Democrats to have seen that the result of the vote back in December 2015 had been different. It is not a secret, but we would also have liked Denmark to be fully involved in Europol. We are, however, as close to being involved as possible and as the European Commission has been able to offer Denmark, but there are still a number of different points where we would have liked to have seen closer ties. In other words, Denmark gets access through intermediaries to Europol registers and an observer post on the board of directors. But we can no longer search directly for information that can detect crime patterns, wanted persons or search for information at the crime scene. Nor will we be participating in the new and important anti-terrorism centre, and the most worrying thing is that we will not be participating in the development of Europol in the future either. It is not necessarily necessary to cut us off at a later stage from having the discussion whether we should be more involved, but on this basis it is, of course, very positive that it is, firstly, a completely unanimous Parliament that is behind this agreement and, secondly, that it has been possible to get an agreement at all. Against this background, of course, the Social Democratic Party strongly supports the bill here and hopes very much that the various EU bodies will succeed in approving the agreement offered by the European Commission to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145603	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145608	Although, of course, I acknowledge that the rhetoric is a little down compared to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's very enthusiastic predecessor, Mrs Trine Bramsen, in this matter, I would nevertheless like to ask Mr Bramsen. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: When Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen can now mention all these things where it is really, really bad that Denmark is not full and quite as it sounds, a member of Europol, why is it that the Social Democrats are actually recommending this agreement? Why, then, does the Social Democrats not just demand a new referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145652	After all, we recognise the result of the vote that was left in December 2015. Nor do we suffer from sadomasochism, in the sense that we do not believe on this basis that it is desirable or possible to issue a new referendum. We are concerned that Denmark will also be part of and close to being fully involved in Europol in the future. It is almost the end of our membership; it is almost the turn of Europol into supranational cooperation, and we are interested in it. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we are actually satisfied that the agreement has improved in such a way than we had initially feared, and better than we really thought was not possible then at least feared, and we recognise that. So, of course, we support this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145755	So the Social Democratic Party strongly supports this agreement... I guess that's what you can conclude. If the truth isn't it, I'm asking, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, that the private police officer in the field will not experience any changes in relation to what was applicable before 1 May 2017 and will apply after 1 May 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145825	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth can conclude that the Social Democratic Party supports this agreement. We would still have liked to have been fully involved, and that is one of them. also in view of the concern that I also think should be taken seriously by all the parliamentary politicians and parties that the National Police came with when we got the draft agreement in the first place. Here the National Police said that it is, however, the National Police's assessment that the lack of direct access in the near future would imply a very significant restriction on the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to full members of Europol. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145857	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145900	Thank you. In the election campaign, the Social Democrats said in the referendum that the Danish police would be significantly worse off if it were to be a no in the referendum. Now, as you know, this became a 'no', and I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm that, with the agreement we are discussing today, the Danish police will have exactly the same operational options as they currently have right now, as we are standing here talking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420145933	I can confirm that this is the case right now, as we stand and speak. At the same time, however, I can repeat the quotation made by the National Police as part of a statement in which they say that the lack of access in the near future will imply a very significant limitation of the Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime. And that's what we're taking with us, of course. There is no doubt about that, as I also mentioned to Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that the Social Democratic Party would have liked us to be fully involved in Europol. We think that this agreement is good in the sense that it brings us very close to being fully involved, but that does not change the fact that we have some concerns that we, among others, have. will be confirmed in when we read the National Police's assessment of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150017	I think this is a good thing to make it clear that there are fully the same operational possibilities for Danish police in the new agreement as there are at present. And then, of course, it is quite right that if there are completely new technologies, there will be a change. Radio24seven this morning heard the National Police say that it was not in the cards just in the next few years that you wanted this new technology. No, it was actually Europol who said it. So it's relevant to bring along. But of course there has to be a change. What I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur is this: was it a scaremongering when, during the election campaign, the Danish people were told that we would be significantly worse off by a 'no' vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150101	No, it wasn't a scaremongering at all. In other words, we remain indifferent to the fact that it is the opinion of the National Police that in the near future it will be a significant restriction on the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is right that right now it will not be a significant deterioration, no, but it won't be very long before it can be. And the rapporteur must excuse me for not listening to Radio24seven this morning, but I am basing it on what the National Police have said. I do not think that the Social Democrats were campaigning for scaremongering when we gave it up to the referendum, but that we have been confirmed in this way by the National Police's assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150149	Thank you, sir. President. See, when we're here today to deal with Bill No. L 169, which guarantees Denmark an agreement on association with Europol on an intergovernmental basis, that is exactly what we in the Danish People's Party dreamed of when we went to a referendum on 3 December 2015. We're happy with the new deal. Finally, when confirmed in the EU system and in the Folketing, this means that after 1 May 2017, Denmark and the Danish police can in practice continue their cooperation with Europol as well as under the same conditions as were in force before 1 May 2017. This happens, moreover, despite the fact that Denmark was told by the Vice-President of the Commission, Frans Timmermann, with an address to Denmark's relationship with Europol, that one could not be a little pregnant, and by the EU President, Donald Tusk, that it would probably be impossible to reach such an agreement, whereas, as you know, several Danish parties were of the opinion that the European Union did not have time to negotiate with Denmark an agreement on Europol because all the efforts were put into negotiations with the British on the terms of their withdrawal from the European Union. In fact, several parties could also be warned before the referendum that it would take quite many years, even up to 6-8 years, to get an intergovernmental agreement on Danish participation in Europol. Well, it didn't really work out either. When the government first pulled the work clothes, and I guess it didn't really happen until autumn 2016, quite a few months passed before an agreement had landed. That is, of course, because, where there is political will, there is also the way, and when common sense calls for an agreement to be reached, as is the case with Europol, then, of course, an agreement is also reached. The EU system introduces itself into a realism in terms of making cooperation work in a sensible way. Now the agreement is here, and it is good, and, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, it lives quite up to what we proposed to the Danes, in the event that they had to vote against abandoning the reservation of law and of foreigners on 3 December, as our wise compatriots did. As I have said, the agreement means that Denmark can, in practice, continue our cooperation with Europol as before. Where in the past Danish police officers had to call an employee in Ejby in order to be able to look up a person in the SIS register, a Danish police officer must in future call an employee in The Hague in the Netherlands or possibly an seconded employee in Ejby, who can access the same information immediately and without having to ask permission. In practice, after 1 May, Danish officers will be fully present, as was the case before 1 May, and Denmark can also participate in the various task forces and working groups as before. Denmark even has the right to speak at the Administrative Board meetings in Europol, but can and here comes the decisive difference in relation to the practice so far • do not vote at the Board meetings. This, as far as we have understood in the Danish People's Party, is not something you do quite often, and Denmark's voice has never been decisive in the outcome of a vote. So all in all one must say that it is quite an acceptable price, yes, one might almost call it an offer of battle, to pay for the Danish reservation of law and foreigners, and that is what we must all bear in mind is the backdrop of the situation we are facing today. A majority in the Folketing wanted the Danes to abolish the reservation of law and foreigners, and the Danes, as you know, said no to 3 December 2015. At that time, the Danish People's Party said that it was our view that within the time limit we could reach a satisfactory agreement on Danish association with Europol, which would not put Danish police at a disadvantage if the Danes voted against abolishing the reservation of law and of foreigners. That is why we are also pleased that the National Police Commissioner has clearly indicated that the agreement entered into is satisfactory for the Danish police. It is of course important for the Danish People's Party to ensure that the Danish police have the best possible working conditions, also in cooperation with colleagues in the other European countries. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Justice on his practical approach to the task before him. This task has been done well by the Minister of Justice and for us in the Danish People's Party quite satisfactorily, and I would also like to sign for the fine cooperation that has taken place since the Minister of Justice took over from the former Minister of Justice. It has to be said that the level of orientation has improved considerably than it was in the previous period. Of course, one can always wonder why rapporteurs from other parties have been so busy talking an otherwise uniquely good agreement into a large black hole where it absolutely does not belong, but it is of course a different story and can probably be explained by the usual slightly incinerated and divisive feeling that spreads among the EU-sock-bearing parties when you have been voted down by the wise Danes. But summa summarum, Dansk Folkeparti is happy with the agreement and can fully and enthusiastically support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150652	I would just like to make a brief comment on Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150656	I'd like to hear Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's view that the Europol agreement requires Danish membership of Schengen. What does the rapporteur think of that part of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150709	That's a little strange. One might as well have made an agreement that this assumed that we would buy the total French production of red wine for x years, because it has no relevance to what the agreement is about: Europol. But I am well aware that it has come along because you thought that you could tease the Danish People's Party if you did. I feel that on the day we had to persuade a majority in the Folketing to vote in favour of Denmark leaving Schengen, I think we are going to make it. In fact, I believe, unfortunately, that it will be a greater task to persuade a majority in the Folketing to vote in favour of us leaving Schengen. But Mrs Zenia Stampe can join us immediately by eager Schengen opponents, so we have at least reached a distance. And since I understand that the Radical Left has begun to woo other parties in the Folketing than just the Social Democratic Party, perhaps a healthy courtship to the Danish People's Party could also be something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150809	I shall then understand in that way that the Danish People's Party wants to withdraw Denmark from both Schengen and Europol, because the two things are now connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150821	No, Mrs. Zenia Stampe can't understand it that way. Mrs Zenia Stampe understands that at the same time as we had to gather 90 mandates here in the Folketing for the withdrawal of Schengen, it is clear that there is a new situation and then we have to go to the European Union and tell us what the situation is and it has to be seen then. However, I would also like to say that there are some points that point to Schengen perhaps becoming a different cooperation. We have a French presidential candidate, François Fillon, who will challenge Schengen cooperation and will have permanent border controls. We have another French presidential candidate, Marine Le Pen, who will also challenge EU cooperation so that many things can happen before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Søren Gade, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420150910	Thank you. Back in December 2015, we were, as you know, in the ballot box for a referendum on the abolition of the Danish reservation of law. A majority of Danish citizens voted 'no', and it is with the background that we are here today. The calendar will be in May, and the new Europol regulation will be in force on 1 May. It will thus be a supranational cooperation in which Denmark cannot participate because of our continued legal reservation. In the fight against cross-border crime, close European police and judicial cooperation is essential, which is why on 12 December 2016 all parties of the Folketing concluded an agreement on Denmark's association with Europol after 1 May 2017. Based on that mandate, the government has had long and ambitious negotiations with the EU on the conclusion of an intergovernmental special agreement between Denmark and Europol. Thanks to the skillful work of our Prime Minister and our Minister for Justice, we have succeeded in achieving a special agreement with the closest possible link to European police cooperation, and the adoption of today's legislative proposal will certainly provide the basis for Denmark's continued association with Europol. My colleague and EU rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, has been so impressed by the Prime Minister's negotiating skills that he has referred in the media to the Danish special agreement with Europol as being as good as if Denmark had still been a full member. On behalf of the Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for that praise, although I think that reality looks just a little different. After all, it is overselling the agreement to say that it is as good as full membership of Europol would have been. The fact is that the agreement does not quite correspond to full membership. Among other things: Danish police are in a position to lose direct access to the registers, which are reserved exclusively for full members. Instead, the Danish police, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth explained, now request that searches be made in the databases. The National Police themselves point out that the disadvantages of the new system will increase as new and modern technology is applied. I have asked what exactly that means, and that means that when you, as a police officer, get a tablet at some point and thus have direct access to databases from the police car, that will not be possible. There are also major programmes in Europe currently under way in many countries on license plates and scanning of license plates, and here too it will be harder for Danish police when technology can be mastered. In addition, Denmark will only be able to participate in Europol's so-called Management Board as an observer, and this means in concrete terms that we cannot sit at the negotiating table and take decisions on Europol's development and priorities. So it may well be that some people do not think it is important, but I think it is really a pity for our police that we are cut off from these opportunities. Although the agreement has not yet been approved by the Council, the draft law is being first examined today, and this is due, of course, to the fact that, following the adoption of the bill, Danish legislation may be in place by 1 May 2017. The Government can thus accede to the agreement between Denmark and Europol as soon as the process of the EU institutions has been completed. So I very much hope that today Parliament will give its consent to the government's accession to an intergovernmental agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with Europol on behalf of Denmark. With the adoption of the agreement, we can continue to cooperate with our European neighbours and allies. We can ensure our police the best possible relationship to carry out their important work and stem cross-border crime from the situation in which the "no' in December 2015 put Denmark. Left votes in favour of the bill. I hope that all parties in the Folketing will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151312	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151315	Thank you. I must say that I was very surprised that the rapporteur of the Left said that the Danish police would not have direct access to the search records. In other words, the technical review and the answers and what we have received from the Minister for Justice say that the new agreement has exactly the same access to search as is currently available. I just want to hear from the rapporteur of the Left whether it was a statement or whether the rapporteur has not read the material from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151352	So, as I see it, you pick up the phone and call a liaison officer who then goes in and does the search. And at that point, there could be an hour layer. In principle, you could imagine that there were 20 cops who called at once. There aren't 20 to answer the phone on the other end. The cop can get access, but it's not a direct access. There's an employee that the Danish cop needs to get hold of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151422	I must say that it is therefore deeply disappointing that the rapporteur of the Left does not know what is in this agreement. The situation is, of course, that we have been told by the Ministry of Justice and the National Police that today there is a Mr. Jensen, who is seeking, employed by the Danish police, and in the future Mr. Jensen's employer then just be Europol, but he can both sit in Copenhagen with the National Police or in The Hague, depending on what you find is best. We are only talking about the name tag having to have a small change, but in reality there is exactly the same search access. I therefore hope that the Left can confirm this, because that is the content. I think it would be a pity if we were to have misinformation about this agreement today too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151508	Thank you. Now it is fortunate that the Minister for Justice is in the Chamber, so I would recommend the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to put the same question to the Minister for Justice in a moment. Then we can see where the answer goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151519	First of all, we have a few rapporteurs and a few brief comments. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151523	In fact, I find it a little strange that the rapporteur from the Left has bought a Mercedes-Benz, which he then tries to sell to the public as a Ford Taunus, but the rapporteur from the Left himself must lie around with it, even though it may be surprising. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether the rapporteur of the Left cannot confirm the facts, namely that before 1 May 2017 it is the case that if a policeman wants to have looked up something in the SIS register and is in, for example, the SIS register. Holbæk, then they call a cop in Ejby, who then looks it up in the SIS register, and after 1 May 2017 it will be the case that the same cop in Holbæk calls another cop who looks this up, and that cop can then be either in The Hague or in Copenhagen or in Ejby, depending on what we agree on. Do we agree that's the way it is, sir? Søren Gade?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151625	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that. What I said, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, is that you have the link that other countries do not have, you cannot go straight in yourself, and that is what is the hops in the concern expressed by the National Police, precisely this: at some point, the individual officer must be able to enter those registers himself and not call a telephone number, whether it be in The Hague or in Denmark. And that is what my concerns, the concerns of the Left, are all about, because then it is an obstacle to the policeman's work if you sit on the patrol car and you cannot go directly into that register yourself. So it is the case that the intermediary that is today is tomorrow, and if we had been a full member, then you could go straight into the database.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151710	Yes, yes, but I also have a Conservative mayor out in Vallensbæk who expects the cars to fly in a short time, and then there will be no noise from the motorways, and that is how we can all have our little quirks. But the fact is, sir. Søren Gade, that nothing has changed, and that, sir. Søren Gade is talking about future music, that is, something that may happen in 5 years or 10 years or maybe longer, depending on when we get so much confidence in a Romanian policeman that we equip him with a tablet that gives him information about Danish citizens in his hand. It's just that. Sir, I'm afraid so. Søren Gade recognizes that, in reality, we are at the moment completely and precisely in the same way as all sorts of other countries are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151753	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151754	I am pleased and proud of the agreement we are having here in the Danish Parliament today under the given conditions, but I think it is appropriate that we, as a politician, should also be able to point out what we are looking into. I think the citizens who are watching the screen have an expectation of this, that is to say that we are saying what the consequence of this can be. But I am pleased with that agreement and I hope it enjoys a great deal of support. And then there is what to say, the hairs in the soup that are there, and that is, of course, that we are not full and full members, and that has some consequences, in terms of whether we can help determine the development, and in terms of what happens when new technology is used.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420151848	Today we are discussing the draft law on the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement between Denmark and the European Union on Europol. In the Enhedslisten, we can agree to the bill. The agreement will enable Denmark, as in the past, to continue its operational cooperation with police authorities in other EU countries in the fight against cross-border crime, although on 1 May 2017 Europol will become supranational. The agreement, which has been called by some EU experts, quote, impressive good agreement, quote over, specifically means that Denmark will continue to have full access to all relevant information in the Europol criminal register. Today it is the case that investigators and patrol cars must call the National Police Office in Copenhagen if they want to search Europol's databases. Here they get a cop, and let's call the cop Jensen. Jensen is employed by the Danish police, and he conducts the search and passes on the results. With the new agreement, investigators and patrol cars will continue to be able to call the police station in Copenhagen and have a search conducted in Europol. The only difference will be that Officer Jensen, who is on the phone, is no longer employed by the Danish police, but instead is employed by Europol. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, we have had the new agreement well illustrated, as we got from the technical review, and the biggest difference between the two images is that one shows that there is a difference in colour between Mr. Jensen's tie, and that really is the only difference. Because a search is being carried out in exactly the same way as today, and we have exactly the same access to Europol's databases as we do today. We have noted in the Enhedslisten that Denmark will continue to have officers stationed at Europol headquarters in The Hague, as well as participation in Europol's Counter-Terrorism Centre and Cybercrime Centre. It is therefore very, very difficult to see that there should be anything at all that puts the Danish police operationally worse than what it is today, and that is why the National Police has also declared that the new agreement in a number of important areas is operationally satisfactory to the Danish police. Up to the referendum on 3 December, all logic was that a cooperation agreement could be drawn up between Denmark and Europol, even though the Danes voted no. In the Enhedslisten we pointed many times to the agreement which among other things. Norway has with Europol. Nevertheless, politicians and so-called experts on the 'yes' side were not late in pointing out all the accidents that would hit Denmark if the referendum were to end with a 'no'. Now it's a no. According to the Jaspers, before the referendum it had been quite unlikely that Denmark could get an agreement with Europol, and if it could possibly succeed, it was said that it would take 5 to 7 years. In the meantime, it could almost sound as if Denmark would become a mecca for paedophiles and criminals. Of course, it is always difficult to predict the future, but with the new Europol agreement I have to say frankly that the yes side has been taken well and thoroughly with its pants down. It has been revealed that the claim that it would be impossible to reach an agreement was merely a scaremongering campaign, a scaremongering campaign which should make voters vote 'yes' to abolishing the legal reservation. When we deal with the proposal today, I think it is important to mention that we in the Enhedslist are not completely uncritical of Europol. In the past, we have expressed scepticism as to whether Europol will have a number of powers under the new regulation, without legal certainty necessarily following suit. We have also seen the leak of data on suspects from Europol in the past. These are matters which we in the Enhedslist will, of course, follow very closely. It is therefore also important for us that this is an intergovernmental agreement with Europol. This means that Denmark can always withdraw from the agreement if we discover problems with the cooperation. In this way, we ensure that it is still the people who have the power to decide which rules should apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152342	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152345	I noticed the great enthusiasm for this agreement, which Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen expressed himself. That surprises me, because I understand that the Enhedslisten has so far almost been against Europol. At least that's the impression I've got. This was then almost confirmed at the end of the speech that was made. So says Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that it is good that it is an intergovernmental agreement that we can withdraw from again. Is it the policy of the Enhedslisten that we should withdraw from Europol again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152422	No. So, Enhedslisten is going to join this agreement, and we hope that the concerns we have will be put to shame. We also said very clearly in the election campaign that we would go for Denmark to get an agreement on continuing cooperation with Europol, and that is what we can now have. There were a great many on the yes side who claimed that it would be completely impossible, including the SF chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who said it would take 4-5 years to get such an agreement. So it is a good thing that this can be done, and I hope that it can be a very fruitful cooperation, so that the Danish police can continue to work in the way it has done so far. After all, it is clear that this will be operationally possible under the current agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152506	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152507	Well, this is very interesting. In other words, I understand that the Enhedslisten is now in favour of Europol, that it is something that is supported. I think that is interesting and, in fact, fairly new.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152521-2	So, it is very, very little new that the Enhedslisten wants a parallel agreement with Europol. That's what we said clear in the election campaign. You will find one quote after another, both by myself and by a large number of politicians from the Enhedslisten, who say that is what you should go for. And we considered that it would be realistic to have. And it has been shown that we were absolutely right and that the so-called experts and japoliticians who claimed that would be impossible have put their scaremongering to shame, and everyone can see that, because we are dealing with an agreement here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152558	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152559	Now Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in his excellent rapporteur speech the Norwegian parallel agreement. Then I'd just like to ask if it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's assessment that the parallel agreement that Denmark has got here is better than the Norwegian, or is it worse; does it provide better access for Denmark than the Norwegian agreement to Europol's information, or does it provide less access than the Norwegian agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152627	It is the case that the agreement that we are discussing here today, and which the Enhedslisten will clearly vote for, provides better access to information for Danish police than the agreement that Norway has. It is very remarkable, because it was said during the campaign from the yes side and from the so-called experts that it would be impossible for Denmark to get an agreement on the level of Norway's agreement. Now we are dealing with a proposal that gives the Danish police exactly the same access to information from Europol's database as they do today. It is a significantly better access than that of the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152707	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152708	Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, before and yelled at the Left's rapporteur, Mr. Soren Gade, to say it's not exactly the same access you're going to get. Then I would like to ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen: By Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, how many police have access to Europol today? So how many people in the Danish police today have access to the Europol database?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152741	What we have been told is that there are eight of them and they will be employed by Europol instead of being employed by the Danish police. It could be exactly the same people. We even heard that the National Police will recommend their current employees to seek the new posts where the salary will then come from Europol. This shows that you will get exactly the same access as you do today. It will be done in exactly the same way. Persecutors in patrol cars can call the Copenhagen Police Office and ask for a search from Europol database. So it is exactly the same access that we know, and I am very surprised that the rapporteur of the Left did not manage the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152826	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152827	After all, this should not be a knowledge test, but I allowed myself to be provoked because I thought it was a rather hard attack by Enhedslisten against the Left rapporteur. When I hear what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying now, I am actually wondering, because what I have been told is that I was just there to get it confirmed is that the police are telling me that it is now about 100 employees who have access to Europol. It is true that in the future it will be maximum. have eight staff, that is to say liaison officers, who will have access to Europol. Is that so correct when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen says that access is exactly the same when it comes to the fact that it is now 100 people who have access and in the future it would be all officers if access is provided via tablet • while in the future maximum. will sit eight liaison officers who have access to Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152919	That is what we were told during the technical review in the Ministry of Justice, and that is what I have here, namely that today the situation is that there is the person who is employed under the Danish police and can apply, and in the future the very same person will just call the person Mr. Jensen has been employed by Europol and will have exactly the same access to the database as they do today. That is what has also been said by us and by many others, namely that this is a situation in which the Danish police have exactly the same operational capacity to cooperate with Europol as they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152955	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420152957	Well, I actually think this is a really bad debate, because so far it has been such a petty polemical game about who does what, why and how rather than discussing the agreement we are actually holding here. The reason why I am taking the floor is that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is repeatedly saying that the yes parties said that it was not possible. At least now I know a 'yes' party that said again and again throughout the campaign before the vote in December 2015: of course it is possible to have a parallel agreement, but the question is what the quality of that agreement is. And what is really lacking in this agreement, for which I cannot understand that the Enhedslisten is no longer concerned, is, in fact, the parliamentary control of Europol, which has been introduced into the new regulation that has been made and which the other countries are entering. We are outside this, we can ask to be observers and so on, but we are not an integral part of it. Doesn't it bother the Enhedslisten at all? Has Enhedslisten really been looking at the deal that lies, instead of entering into this polemical game about who said what, when and why, and whether it's 100 or 8 people sitting and looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153105	Well it is quite fair pointed out that the alternative during the election campaign said that it might probably be possible to take points. But I would say that the question is not whether it is full and complete. In other words, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we have clearly stated that we could not be fully involved in a supranational agreement at intergovernmental level; that goes without saying. The question is really just where the power lies. In other words, when it is an intergovernmental agreement, the Folketing will be able to decide to withdraw if the rule of law goes the whistle in Europol, but if it was a supranational agreement as it would have been, if you had voted yes, we would not have that option in the Folketing. It is true that our Members of the European Parliament would then have a little better access, but of course not the possibility of pulling the plug if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153159	After all, the parliamentary control provided for in the new Europol regulation concerns not only the parliamentarians of the European Union, but also the national parliaments, and that is what we are not a fully integrated member of. And yes, it's intergovernmental, and we can retire, but I just think it's worth discussing the deal that lies, instead of doing this polemical game about what's been said when. It is just a consequence of this agreement that we are weakened in terms of the security of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153233	The situation is, of course, that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is right that Danish MEPs can participate in the control. The Danish Parliament then has the opportunity to withdraw completely from the agreement if you wish, but not the opportunity to participate in parliamentary control, as if we had abolished our self-determination in the area of justice. However, if I have criticized the rapporteurs who have been up here today, it is because I think it is quite absurd that the Socialist rapporteur was up here saying that one could not participate in, for example, the counter-terrorism centre. It is simply not right and that the rapporteur of the Left claimed that one would not have the same access as today to information, because that is not right either. And there is no reason to mislead the public about the content of the agreement we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153326	Thank you for that, President. It is as if there is a spruce of magic that hits the Parliamentary Chamber today, because we are dealing here with an agreement that it was not possible to conclude. If, however, there was a slight hope that an agreement could be reached, it would certainly be very, very difficult. It could be done so well. And thanks to the government for the effort. It has been very good and constructive, also in cooperation with the Danish Parliament. Now we stand here with an agreement and have to decide on it. Of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the agreement that lies, because basically, all controversy set aside, this is about whether we want to help fight crime and whether we want to play a part in doing so with other countries. From here there is a resounding yes to both. We think it's a good deal. Then I feel the same way about the discussions that have taken place with some of the previous rapporteurs that we must evaluate. It is also in the agreement that it must be evaluated along the way to see whether it is sufficient in view of the needs of the Danish police. From the point of view of my party, I think you do what you do from other parties too... we go into it with a completely open forehead. If it turns out that at some point we run into a wall and the situation is not sustainable, then we have to look at things again and see what can then be done. But the Liberal Alliance supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153501	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153507	Thank you. In December 2015, we voted on this opt-in system in the field of justice and home That is what I really think is important to bear in mind today, which was a little difficult to come up with in the course of the campaign, namely that Europol is therefore only a subset of justice and home affairs within the European Union. But it is very good that an agreement has been reached in which we have the opportunity to participate and which, I think, is quite good. We need to evaluate it on an ongoing basis. I think this is really, really important, precisely because there is extremely rapid technological development which means that we have to consider it. I have often pointed out this whole issue of parliamentary control, and when I do, it is because we are getting a very, very strong Europol with this new regulation. That is why it is also important that we have control over it. We have sent a letter from the Parliamentary Committee on Europe asking to be allowed to join in some way. But it's kind of not in the deal. I just think that is worth pointing out: yes, it is a very good deal that has come home. We support it completely, like all the other parties of the Danish Parliament, when we sat and nodded to the Prime Minister. But there are also things that we do not have in this agreement that the other countries have. We just have to go into that with our eyes open and not go and make little stories that this is almost better than what the other countries would get. But, of course, the alternative supports the fact that we are still in Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153654	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420153702	Thank you. This is a good deal. It is certainly much better than the alternative, which is to stand outside Europol. I think that is a situation in which everyone can understand in no way is desirable for Denmark. The agreement is also better than what we had feared, which was either to get no agreement at all or to get a poor agreement. That is why we support the proposal today, but in the light of the discussion we have had in the Chamber today and, incidentally, in the public debate, I would like to deal with a tiny bit more with the claim that this agreement is exactly as good as if we had had a full membership of Europol and that it is perhaps only in the distant future or the day the cars start flying that we will have a problem. That is, in fact, already a problem. 'Cause like I said before, Nikolaj Villumsen, it is now about 100 police officers, as far as I have been told, who have access to Europol. What is in the agreement is that maximum. are eight people who can apply to Europol • Europol employees who speak Danish and are probably Danish officers. But it is in fact only 8 people against the 100 who can apply today and potentially the 11,000, or how many police officers there are in Denmark who will be able to search Europol in the future. That's a big difference. That is why it is not correct, but on the contrary factually wrong, when Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti stand here and say that we have exactly the same conditions as we have had in the past. It is not exactly the same conditions when it is only eight people who, yes, can create a day-to-day manning, but only one man at work. It depends on how to put your schedule, but there may be times when there are only one or two. Well, that's most times, isn't it? That is why it will certainly not be possible to use Europol as it had otherwise been intended, namely as a fixed instrument on the street, so that every time you attack someone who looks suspicious, you immediately look up on Europol on your tablet that you are carrying. It is not a question of the future in which cars fly; it is a very, very near future. I asked the National Police when we had the technical review when this future could come with tablets and search access, and the answer was that it was within a few years, 1, 2, 3 years. And I don't believe the cars will fly in one, two, three years. That is what I would call the very, very near future. Therefore, it is not correct when Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti try to convince us and the Danes that this agreement is as good as the reality we have today. It is worse than the reality we have, and it would be extremely much worse than the reality we would have had if we had had full membership of Europol. But, of course, we support the agreement because it is far better than being outside. It is also a better agreement than we could have feared. That is why, of course, we would like to commend the government for its good negotiating work and support the agreement, but also to say that we are constantly doing our job. If, at some point, we say that it is now too much of a handicap for the Danish police that you do not have this direct access to Europol, after all, not only in the light of technological developments, but also in the light of developments in crime, cross-border crime, refugee flows and so on. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154054	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154059	If you listen to Mrs Zenia Stampe's speech, you would think that Mrs Zenia Stampe was already most interested in sending the Danes to the ballot boxes again. Mrs. Zenia Stampe is welcome to do so. After all, it is still the most Euro-fanatic party we are dealing with. I just want to ask Mrs. Zenia Stampe about these 8 versus the 100. Now that we've reached the number 8 of this deal, what does Mrs. Zenia Stampe think it's an expression of? Does Mrs Zenia Stampe think that this is something that has been said by the Commission and that we must finally have no more than eight? Or does Mrs Zenia Stampe think that this represents a balance between the fact that it is in fact the need that has been judged to be necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154202	I think that was the assessment that was needed right now. But I do not think it is Denmark that has had a need to say max. 8 employees. It would have been in Denmark's interest to have no ceiling on the number of employees who could apply to Europol; it would probably have been in Denmark's interest that there had been no ceiling of 8. That is why I do not think it is a wish that Denmark has had, i.e. the limit of 8, because it can by no means be in Denmark's interest. Denmark's interest will be that we could set that figure ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154244	And so I guess we can basically conclude that the reason why there are 100 people today who have access to search and that in future there will only be 8, is that the 100 who have access to search today do everything but search these databases, whereas for the 8 who in future do the task, it will be the task they have because they want to have the employment they now have. Is this such a disaster, Mrs. Zenia Stampe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154313	I think it is really a pity that in the future we will not have the opportunity that we would otherwise have liked. If, for example, I... Suddenly, a suspicious white van looks on some peaceful villaway and I think that this seems strange and then calls the police and asks if they are not coming by, it would be better if the police could immediately turn up on their tablet, if this is someone who is registered in Europol. This is an opportunity that we will not have in the future. And I do not think that the recommendation, when there are only eight staff members, will go out to the country's officers, that they should always check Europol for safety reasons. I think they would if they had the opportunity to do so themselves on their tablet. That is why it will be important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154352	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154353	Thank you. I just want to know if Mrs Zenia Stampe can confirm that it is the National Police's own assessment that 8 employees to search the Europol database are sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154409	That's enough right now, because right now, you have a day-to-day manning. But there is no doubt about that, as the National Police themselves have said, it is a handicap that in future it will not be possible to give ordinary policemen on the street the opportunity to apply directly to Europol. We cannot do this technologically because we will not be able to give them direct access. But eight employees, even though it means day-to-day staffing, will not be enough to enable all the police officers who look suspicious to be able to search Europol. It's not like there are eight employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154444	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154445	I am pleased to hear that Mrs Zenia Stampe can confirm that at this stage, and as the situation is today, it will be quite sufficient, as the National Police have also clearly stated. And then, of course, it is quite right that if there is a technological development in the future... and Europol said this morning to Radio24seven that it could take a lot of years... and if it should go faster than expected, which would certainly be positive, then we can just make a new agreement. And there I just want to hear from Mrs Zenia Stampe whether she does not think that it could be realistic, given that it has been so relatively easy to get this agreement that a new agreement could then be reached in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154523	Ah, I don't know if it's that easy to go and get a new deal. It wasn't easy getting this deal. And then I would say that there is also a difference between having eight employees who can't do anything but these searches, and having the flexibility that the officer on the street can do it as a natural part of his police work, or that police officers can generally do it as part of their work while they have other things to do. Well, if you haven't chosen a larger number, it might be because right now it would be a waste of time if you had 16 employees who only did searches. Because it might well be that there was no basis for filling out the working day. However, I do not think there is any doubt that if we had been a member of Europol, we would in future use Europol much more than the eight employees can actually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154613	There are no more brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154630	The debate here today has been somewhat of a continuation of the referendum debate last year, and I do not think there is any reason to go on with that. Everyone knows our position. We argued that this should be a 'yes' vote in the referendum to lift the reservation of law. That became a no, and we all respect that, of course. That is why the government went down and negotiated an agreement with the other EU countries to remain in Europol, and that is what we are dealing with today, and so it is not much longer than that. There is so much discussion about whether it is better than if we had been a full member. In other words, general logic suggests that such an agreement as the one we have got here is not as good as it would have been if we had been a full member of Europol. The question then is how much worse it is and, as far as we can see, this is satisfactory. We would have liked full membership, including in relation to the other legal acts and the full cooperation on judicial cooperation, which we in fact also considered very important. However, as I have said, this is what the government has negotiated, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154758	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154802	Well, thank you. It is actually just to hear what the SF thinks, in relation to the assumption that was at least publicly held before the referendum on 3 December 2015, where it for example. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, chairman of the SF, said that it would take 5-7 years to get a parallel agreement if it would be possible to reach an agreement at all. Now we are discussing an agreement here in Parliament today. What does the SF's rapporteur do with the idea that, in this way, it would be so difficult for the public, when it has been shown that it is actually possible to get an operationally very good agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420154853	Let me say I haven't said anything about that being impossible. If you go back and hear what I said then you will hear that I said it was too much a risk to take. That was the expression I used all the time, because I actually thought it was a good agreement that we stood with as a whole, and then why run the risk of not having a proper Europol agreement? Nobody knew about it back then. No one knew, including the Enhedslisten. It must then be said that it is actually excellent and positive that we have succeeded in negotiating an agreement which is not as good as it could have been if we had been fully members but which is satisfactory. I do not think that this debate can be used for anything, because it is, you might say, such counter-productive history writing. We simply had no idea then. And my main argument was that, overall, it was a good deal that lay there, which we should say yes to. And why take the risk of Europol when we could say yes to everything instead? We said no, and then we have an agreement that is in fact satisfactory on the Europol part. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155003	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155015	When I asked, it was quite specific because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, the chairman of the SF, for example in the party leader debate on TV 2, said that it would take 5-7 years to get such an agreement here. And that is a very clear message to the Danish people before they had to go to the ballot boxes. I'd just like to hear from SF what you're thinking about. Was it a misdirection of the population, or was it simply believed by oneself, and then it turned out not to be right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155048	You can't know anything about that. It was an assessment. Well, at that time there were many different assessments of how difficult it would be. No one could know anything about that at the time. As I said, it was not something I said, because I have been sitting with such things before and I was aware that there would be some very, very difficult negotiations, but that it might be possible. But my main argument was that there was just no reason to take that risk. Why should we do so when we could get an excellent agreement on those 22 acts that were next to it, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155128	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155130	I don't know if sir. Holger K. Nielsen's memory plays him a trick, but I can certainly tell Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that on 30 November 2016, he wrote a blog post on Jyllands-Posten's website under the heading "No-Side's cynical bluff," where he accused no-side of misleading people, having shown cynicism and bluffing, and I don't know what. He also suggested that we would smoke out of Europol. I think that's a little bad for it, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen tells us today that he has never indicated that there could be a risk of smoking out of Europol, he suggested that, almost a few days before an agreement was reached, in this speech which I do not know about Mr Nielsen. Holger K. Nielsen remembers that he wrote. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, that it is not our view that the Socialist People's Party has held back from the prophecies of doom, and therefore it would be nice if there were also some self-examination by the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155240	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155241	Well, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth once again demonstrates an amazing ability not to read inside. That's always the way it is with that man. I haven't said anything about this not being possible. I have said it would be difficult. I always said it would be. I have said that there was a risk, that there was a danger that it could happen, and indeed there was. Nobody knew what was gonna happen at the time. And Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth was about to do in his pants for fear that we would actually get out, because he knew that he would be flapping. Therefore, the Danish People's Party and the opponents also suggested that the government would fail in these negotiations; it was suggested that the monkey should be placed with the government if it did not succeed in obtaining this agreement. But the government actually negotiated and actually did it really and properly, and we got this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155340	I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, that the indictment in this room is not that man it is Mr. or ma'am. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155347	Thank you. I mean, I'm really getting more and more worried about sir. Holger K. Nielsen's name. Well, it's not like it's been a long time since Mr. Knox... Holger in his answer to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen said about getting a parallel agreement, and I quote that one might do so, and in reply to me, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen saw that there was a real risk that we could smoke out of Europol. I am confused at a higher level, because both can't be right, and so quickly you can't change your mind. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155418	Well, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is what I'm saying is that at the time everyone was uncertain about the consequences of this. It shouldn't be so hard to understand, should it? There was a risk that things could go wrong, yes. There was a chance that things could go well, yes. No devil knew that time. That's why we said: okay, then the government negotiates. That was excellent and we are today with a result that we can then support. I think we should be happy about that, don't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155459	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155500	It's all very well with the fact that you didn't know. The problem is, of course, that there is a notorious tendency that when the Danes are asked about the EU, the 'yes' parties exaggerate the possible consequences of a 'no'. First, it was the union that was stone dead, as Schlüter told us. Then the European Union should not interfere in our labour market and our welfare. That would never happen, said Nyrup. Then our economy would collapse completely if we did not vote for the euro lie, lie. And it was the same thing we saw last time. We just heard Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's own party chairman referred to standing and saying that it would certainly take 25 years. That would actually mean that in the intervening period we had fallen out of Europol. It is a little too bad when we debate the European Union, because I think it is an important debate. Enhedslisten doesn't agree with SF on many things. There are also things on which we agree. But could we not try to raise the level just a little in the future so that we actually win on arguments and not tie the Danes things on the sleeve as it happens every time we vote on the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155602	Listen to me. I have been in numerous referendums since 1972, 1986, 1992, 1996, 2000 and so on. I know everything about that, and we fully agree that as far back as 1972 you got a yes because you lied about the financial consequences of a no. In the year 2000, the same thing happened. I fully agree, and that is why I did not go out at any time in the last referendum and said that this would have very, very severe consequences. I know all about being careful about saying such things, and so, we can take that debate again. Before you become too sacred, I would also like to say that when I look at Enhedslisten's completely platter and nationalistic campaign, which was quite in line with the Danish People's Party, where you like to question all people who live south of Dannevirke, I think it was simply as lame a campaign as you can imagine, and deeply disappointing to a left-wing party. However, we can take that debate in other contexts. There's no need to keep going in that, is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155715	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155716	It's just some notorious nonsense. What the SF is completely lost in here is that you can no longer know the difference between nationalism and the things that are about local democracy and a people's right to make some decisions on their own behalf. Nationalism looks down on other peoples, and it is not the same as a desire for us to be able to make decisive decisions ourselves, for example. on how we organize our legal system and other things. That's not nationalism, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. It is a wish that the decisions are close to the Danes and the things that are important at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155750	One of your main arguments was that all Hungarian and Bulgarian judges were corrupt. If you were south of Dannevirke, you'd be dirty. That's what was your kronargument. If you lived south of the border, you couldn't understand homosexuals and their rights. It was then one of your cronarguments, and it was simply the most blurry form of nationalism. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is shaking his head, but that was actually the case. So I don't think anyone has anything to let each other hear in this question, right? That is why I also think that the referendum campaign was not particularly attractive after that. But it was almost a year ago that this was happening, and now we are debating it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155836	Then we conclude the debate, which one has to say there was a little nerve in here at the end. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420155842	I would like to start by thanking you for the positive reception of the draft law at least. Should someone have listened to this debate and had some doubts about it, I am glad that we are in fact a unanimous Parliament voting in favour of this bill. I think that's really good. It is also good that we have such discussions, but I could have a rewarding hope that before we perhaps embark on a lot of extra debates on this, we will just breathe and make sure that we get that agreement fully home and get it in place, because it is not yet. Then we can take all the discussions forward about what the future holds and so on, and we will have an annual debate in this Chamber about it, and I think that is very, very good. After all, we are no longer a member of Europol when the new regulation comes into force from 1 May, and that is a consequence of the legal reservation. The purpose of this bill is then to allow Denmark to be associated with police cooperation in Europol in the future on an intergovernmental basis. Europol cooperation is of great importance for the work of the Danish police in preventing and combating cross-border crime. We all know that Denmark cannot combat serious international crime alone, and we all agree that the fight against cross-border crime requires close cooperation. This is why the government has worked hard and intensively to negotiate an agreement with the Commission and Europol. The agreement is not as good as membership of Europol, but the agreement will ensure that Denmark can maintain a link with Europol cooperation after 1 May 2017. The processes of the EU institutions will continue in this and in the coming week, and the agreement is not expected to be approved by the Council until Friday 28 April. The bill ensures that Danish legislation is in place before 1 May 2017, and also contains the consent of the Danish Parliament that the government can accede to the agreement between Denmark and Europol. Following the bill, it is proposed that the agreement between Denmark and Europol be implemented in Danish law by incorporation. The draft law thus implies that an agreement between Denmark and Europol will apply in Denmark following the announcement of the agreement in the Official Journal. When the proposal was tabled, the draft agreement was only available in English and work is currently being done to finalise the translation of the draft agreement into Danish. And I expect that the Danish text version of the draft agreement will be forwarded to the Danish Parliament at the beginning of the next week. I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament. Thank you for your cooperation. We have had some different briefing meetings. I think it has worked very well. And, of course, I am available to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160208	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160215	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister for Justice about these eight people who have now been the subject of a certain debate in this Chamber today. Is it the view of the Minister for Justice that the eight people are sufficient to carry out the task that they are assigned to do and, in negative cases, if the Minister of Justice does not consider that to be sufficient, how did that figure end up in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160307	It is the opinion of the National Police that the number is sufficient to meet the challenge we have here and now. When there have been figures about 108 during the day today, it is of course because today there are approx. 100, who as part of their work sometimes just look up something. This, of course, provides some sort of flexibility. In the future, there will be eight full-time employees dedicated to this as their only task, and that is according to an assessment by the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160337	I just have to understand it correctly: these eight have, in effect, entered into the agreement at the request of the National Police, because it has been the opinion of the National Police that it was sufficient to do the job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160352	Yeah, that's what's been the assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160355	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160358	Thank you. It is just because in today's debate, as in the past, uncertainty has arisen as to whether Denmark will be able to participate in the work of the European Counter-Terrorism Centre and Europol's cybercrime centre with the new agreement we are discussing here today. I would just like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether the Minister for Justice can confirm that Denmark will continue to participate in the work of the two centres with the agreement we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160426	We can continue to participate in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160430	I'm really happy to confirm that. I think it is important that there is no doubt as to what we are going to say 'yes' to today. Then I would like to hear the Minister for Justice's assessment of the Minister for Justice's own statement on the day before the referendum on 3 December, namely on 2 December, when the Minister for Justice on Twitter wrote that it would take 4-5 years to get a parallel agreement with Europol. What are the thoughts of the Minister of Justice that he could make such a terrible mistake and write to the Danish people just before a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160513	He is delighted that he could be so horribly wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160517	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160520	Thank you, Minister. There has been a question to ask, among other things. The rapporteur of the Radicals on this, with a new agreement, should new opportunities arise. I would just like to clarify why we really need to be done with this agreement by 1 May 2017, because it is, of course, about a new Europol regulation that will actually have to be negotiated in parallel or together with other agreements in a completely different way from that which the Minister has been able to do here, where it is under the old regulation that has been negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160553	If it was not before 1 May, we would be negotiating under quite different frameworks and rules, and that is of course why it has been important for us to get the agreement through before 1 May. Although I am very, very positive, I just think we should remind each other that it has not come through yet. The LIBE Committee has been extremely committed and extremely positive, and they have really been some who have seen the necessity in this for Denmark, and I think we should sign for that. Everyone has, like, tried to do what they could to achieve it, otherwise we should have started all over again on a completely different basis, and then we would be out in the period that the new process would last.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160634	If we suddenly have new opportunities, such as technological opportunities, will they have to be negotiated under the old Europol agreement or under the new one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160649	If we're in this situation, if that's what the questioner's thinking about... when technology is developing that those who are drunk and whole members can stand and search it with their smartphone, then we have to say that we can't do that with this deal. I would very much like to answer a written question in committee on how this is going to be done, because I am standing here and can be a little uncertain as to how our options will be exactly afterwards if we are to have new agreements over. I'm just gonna be a little unsure about that, and then I'd rather not stand here and say something wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160728	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160743	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Thomas Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420160804	Thank you, President. The draft law aims to make a number of adjustments to the rules on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. The rules are an implementation of the BRRD Directive, which is an abbreviation of The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, and the legislative proposal therefore makes changes and clarifications which ensure that the rules work as intended in the directive, while at the same time clarifying the division of roles between the authorities involved at home. There are a number of general points. The first point concerns group recovery plans and the draft law specifies which authorities are included in the joint decision on which authorities may make recommendations to the group recovery plan and it is specifically proposed that the FSA should submit both recovery plans and group recovery plans for Financial Stability A/S, which may make recommendations. That sounds quite reasonable and is something we can support. Then there are write-down liabilities, and here is the purpose of the rules to prevent companies from structure their obligations in a way that makes bail-in less effective. Bail-in is the principle that only those who have invested in the company should bear the losses. The current Danish translation of the directive is not in line with the English version of these provisions and, in order to ensure that Danish companies are not treated less favourably or differently than other companies in other countries, the provisions on eligible liabilities are proposed in accordance with the English version of the directive, so that the requirements on eligible liabilities can be set as a percentage of the capital base and total liabilities. That also sounds quite reasonable. Then there is the third point in the draft law which deals with the write-down and conversion of capital instruments. It is the case that it is clarified that the conditions under which an institution is no longer viable are the same as for assessing whether an institution is in need or is likely to be in need. And it also sounds quite reasonable to clarify that in the legislation. Then there is the fourth point about the fact that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority must inform Financial Stability A/S when a company has to be wound up. And according to the current directive, before Financial Stability A/S initiates winding-up measures against an undertaking, the FSA must, after consulting Financial Stability A/S, assess that other options for managing the company have been exhausted. Financial Stability A/S then assesses whether the conditions for settlement are met under the law. However, the directive does not require the competent authority in Denmark, i.e. the FSA, to consult the resolution authority Financial Stability A/S, and to ensure a clear division of powers between supervisory and resolution authorities, to be adapted to the wording of the provision. That also sounds quite reasonable. Then there is the fifth point in the draft law, and this is about offsetting and reversing the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings. It is proposed that, in the context of restructuring and winding-up of a financial undertaking, Financial Stability A/S may establish claims in accordance with the same set-off principles as are applied in the event of bankruptcy. And by giving Financial Stability A/S that opportunity, it is even more ensured that it is primarily owners and creditors of the failing financial institution who bear the Institute's losses. I also think that this element is quite reasonable. So all in all, with these very technical elements, the Social Democrats think it is a sensible proposal that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161156	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161204	The draft law we are discussing here is a legislative proposal aimed at implementing a number of minor changes in the financial field, such as: ensure that credit institutions and creditors are the first to bear the financial losses when the institution is in liquidation. The legislative changes contained in this bill also mean that a number of minor changes and clarifications are being made to the rules currently implemented through the EU directive on the recovery and winding-up of credit institutions and investment firms. In concrete terms, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, financial stability A/S, among other things. have access to take into account competitive principles of set-off and reversal in connection with the reconstruction and resolution of institutions. The legislative proposal also means that we are now being given the opportunity to ensure that any payments made by a company which has to close down can be made at a minimum and that those who bear the financial losses are mainly those who have also had the responsibility and the operation, etc. by the financial undertaking concerned. All in all, it is a legislative proposal that benefits Danish interests, and it is also a minimum implementation in relation to the EU directive. Against this background, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161333	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161340	Thank you. At the risk of sounding a bit like an echo of the two previous rapporteurs, I would just like to mention some of the key points from this draft law: that it is the implementation of an EU directive, a series of clarifications and adjustments that ensure that the legislation is clear and that there is no doubt, nor that we are in a situation where the conditions that apply to Danish financial institutions are different from those in our neighbouring countries. Then there is also a provision that if you have not completed a course in board competence, which you must to sit on the board of a financial company, then it is now possible to grant an exemption if you have not completed it within 12 months, for example if you have become ill or have been on maternity leave, or that the course you are taking is not completed until the 12 months have passed. That kind of makes a lot of sense. It is important that the board members are well dressed, but a rigid date is even square enough. So if there is a need for a little extra rubber band to make sure that the board members get the necessary competencies, then it makes real sense. I would also like to point out that this proposal is important for the risk to be borne in the same way as in the event of bankruptcy if it is instead a restructuring that it is owners and creditors who have to bear the same loss as in the event of bankruptcy. In order to ensure that it is equal to bankruptcy in general, if it is through restructuring, one acts, yes, then there must also be the possibility of reverse transactions made up to the transfer or the situation where ownership changes as a result of an institution no longer being able to deal with the situation itself. If any provision has been made to give individual creditors a particularly favourable position, it should of course be no different from if the institution had gone bankrupt. Today, this can be reversed by bankruptcy, and it will also apply here. Basically, it is a question of ensuring that we comply with the common rules in this area in relation to the European Union, but also with clarity and clarification. It is therefore important that there are clear rules on financial matters. That is why it is, of course, a quite sensible legislative proposal which we in the Left support. I have promised to announce that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161623	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420161637	Thank you, Mr President. After all, this is another of the many proposals we are dealing with in here that are about implementing EU regulations and directives into Danish legislation. One might sometimes ask how much political autonomy we actually have left here in Denmark. In this case, as I read this very complicated legislative proposal, there are some sensible initiatives to ensure that when banks and other financial companies are hit by a crisis or are in trouble, they can be settled with minimal damage to the economy. It is the investors who have to take the loss. They are also the ones who get the prize when things are going well and not the rest of us, society or the small savers. In fact, as I read the proposal, there are also some sensible tightenings in this area. Today, when a financial undertaking is wound up, Financial Stability must ensure that creditors do not incur a greater loss than would have been incurred if the entity or entity had been wound up. If they are suffering a greater loss, there must be compensation from the so-called winding-up formula of Financial Stability. As I understand the proposal, it may be the minister who can confirm it, the right, if it is to be said, to creditors will become less extensive in the future, because to some extent it is contrary to the thinking of this directive, namely the bail-in principle described by previous rapporteurs, that is to say the idea that it is investors who have to bear the loss. The changes will allow Financial Stability to tighten up in relation to these payments from the settlement formula. I think that makes a great deal of sense at the moment. So we are immediately in favour of this proposal. However, there is one concern. It concerns the right of the Minister of Industry to lay down detailed rules on winding-up, including that relating to the conditions of the customers taken over by the banks in question. The draft law states that the Minister may lay down detailed rules on the customer conditions of companies, including interest rates, fees, etc., as these are not to be attractive and do not have to compete with the conditions generally offered to customers of companies with similar business activities. It is quite far-reaching powers which can have quite far-reaching consequences for people's economy. With the history that we have and that we know from, for example. the customers of Roskilde Bank and many others, who were, after all, affected by some very, very severe interest rate increases in relation to Financial Stability, I can be a little concerned about this. Perhaps the Minister will be able to reassure me there afterwards. But immediately we look forward to the proposal and look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162000	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162008	Thank you. I shall be very brief, as my honourable colleagues have explained the proposal so well and say that we also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162016	Thanks for the short speech. Next in line, sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162025	Thank you. I have been listening and I think we have had some good reviews of a very, very complicated proposal. When we looked at the proposal, we found that one of our anchors against the proposal in the Alternative is precisely the authority of the Minister. I just want to say that it really should be the case that we can be quite comfortable about this, and I think we can be in this case too because with such complicated material as we are dealing with in this bill, for example, I am not the right person to judge whether this is essentially the right thing to do for Denmark. I can look at it politically and see whether there are some inappropriate things, but we should have confidence in our ministers, which will enable us to give them calmly a mandate. We see, however, a slippage, one might call it, in the sense that it happens more and more often, that one somehow bypasses the Folketing and gives an authorisation to a minister. If we could now follow it up with the fact that we created even more openness about the work we are doing here in the Danish Parliament and in the ministries, and made the Public Service Act work as it should, we could even more simply say: of course the Minister should have this authority. This is then the only appeal I could have against the proposal, otherwise it will implement sensible rules of cooperation for the European Union, and I am quite confident that we will sometimes surrender sovereignty to our EU colleagues and our joint cooperation with the rest of Europe. Because the question is whether we really will not have more self-determination and sovereignty when we give up a little while now and then. That is what we believe in the alternative: to give a little in order to get more on the whole. So we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162215	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162221	Thank you very much. As the seventh rapporteur, I would like to say that this draft law has, of course, been thoroughly explained. I would just like to point out one thing that I think is very sensible, and that is that Financial Stability has access to the application of bankruptcy law principles. This means that they can ensure that it is the owners and creditors of a credit institution who are the first to bear financial losses. So it is not the people who have to bear it when there is a loss. We think this is really fair, because it is of course those who have taken the risks and who make money when things are going well. So it's kind of a good, fair approach that lies here in L 186. Many of the other changes have been explained, such as: comes from an EU directive which needs to be implemented a little more in Danish law. So we support this on the part of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162315	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why I am giving the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162322	Thank you for the many, I think, constructive comments. The main aim of the draft law is to ensure that it is owners and creditors who bear all financial losses when a financial institution becomes in need and has to be wound up. This is entirely in line with the practice we have had in Denmark. At the same time, it is ensured that payments from the so-called winding-up formula, built up through contributions from all financial institutions, can be kept to an absolute minimum for the benefit of the sector as a whole. The draft law therefore gives Financial Stability access to e.g. to apply the principles of offsetting claims known under the Bankruptcy Act when Financial Stability is required to perform a restructuring or winding-up of a financial institution. The draft law also means that Danish financial institutions are not treated differently from companies in other EU countries. It is important that Danish financial companies have the opportunity to compete on equal terms with companies in the rest of the EU. The adjustments are made partly by a change in how the requirement for eligible liabilities is determined and partly by a change in the liabilities that can be used to meet the requirement. The purpose of the rules is to prevent the undertakings concerned from structuring their obligations in such a way as to make restructuring or winding-up more difficult or less effective. In addition, the draft law also clarifies the division of roles between the FSA and Financial Stability in the context of resolution planning, etc. Finally, the draft law provides for a derogation in relation to the conduct of a basic course by board members. The draft law thus allows the FSA to grant an exemption from the 12-month deadline for the completion of a basic course, provided that, for example, a member of the board of directors is entitled to grant an exemption from the 12 month deadline for the completion of a basic course. insufficient training provision, sickness or maternity has not been able to complete the course in good time. This avoids the risk that board members may be required to resign in situations where there is a legitimate explanation. Overall, the proposal aims to ensure that the financial sector is well regulated, sound and robust, while at the same time there is fairness in regulation. I look forward to the discussion of the draft law in committee and, of course, I would be happy to ask if there are further questions in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162552	Thank you. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment to be made. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162557	I have one comment to make and then one question. I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the SF and say that they are also positive about the proposal, I have just been told. My question relates to this authority of the Minister, which I referred to in my own rapporteur's speech. I am actually quite confident about giving it, but I see that this is happening more and more often. If the Minister can go into this further, if it does not become too technical, why it is equally important to be included in this bill. What's it doing good for? Is this because we need to be able to act faster, or what is the reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162633	Thanks for the message from the SF. After all, we are using exactly the same procedure that we are using in other respects. So there's nothing unusual or different in this situation. So it is simply to follow the normal practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162651	Is there a brief comment? Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162655	This arises, among other things, from: of FinanceDanmark's consultation answer/questions, where they ask how it can be that you have to give this extra authority. However, it is noted that, according to the Minister, this is normal practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162709	I note the question and if there is a need for further comfort from Mr. René Gade's side, and I will be happy to reply to that in writing as well. If that makes the Alternative safe or more secure how can we use the superlatives here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162732	Thank you, Minister. I would remind you that, if there is a wish for comment No. 2, so just press the button again. It is a new procedure that has been adopted by the Bureau and has been announced. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162759	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20170420162821	Thank you, President. The Danish mortgage is one of the world's cheapest forms of housing financing. It is this form of financing that ensures that many families who do not have millions of kroner on the bank book can nevertheless realise the dream of a house and that the entrepreneurs can realise a good framework for their businesses. In other words, the mortgage system helps to support economic activity in Denmark by providing cheap financing for both households and businesses. From a political point of view, it is important that we keep an eye on the proper functioning of the mortgage credit system and that consumers experience a market characterised by relevant information and thus transparency. And if you, as a borrower, want to move your loan to another institute, there must also be a real opportunity to do so. In spring 2016, we saw how a number of mortgage banks announced significant increases in the contribution rates on mortgage loans. This gave rise to a particularly welcome debate on how institutions and banks should act if borrowers suddenly have to pay more for their loans. Since then, a committee of experts has looked at ways of strengthening transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. The Committee of Experts has made a number of sensible recommendations for necessary adjustments to the rules. And this bill we are discussing today is then the result of the political agreement on increased transparency and mobility in the mortgage market, which we concluded in January, based on the recommendations of the experts. The content of the draft law is to ensure a longer warning period. It is the case that as a consumer, as a borrower, from the day when an increase in contributions is announced, not now only has three months, but six months to assess whether one should continue to have one's loan in that institution or whether one might move to another institute. Then something new is being introduced: a justification for these increases. Overall, the reasons for possible price increases by institutions must be more transparent for borrowers. The institution's warning of the changes in contributions, interest rate supplements and charges shall be justified by the conditions that have triggered the increase. In addition, institutions shall explain the main factors having an impact on the extent of the change, as well as their estimated proportion of the overall increase. These must not be just justifications; they must also be adequate justifications. In fact, increases in contributions, interest rates and charges may only be implemented if they are duly justified. If there is no notice of increases in contributions and increases in interest rates according to the rules, they cannot enter into force. There must also be more and better information when you are notified of this increase. Institutions and banks shall provide the borrower with more information when alerting price increases. The additional information shall include, inter alia: information on the market value of the customer's loans. Institutions and banks shall also provide the borrower with information that the borrower has the possibility to repay the loan and to convert it to another loan, where appropriate, at the same institution or at another loan provider. There must also be information on where to go and compare what the various lenders offer. Then it is also the case that the borrower's costs must be reduced. It shall not be permitted to charge redemption fees during the warning period by an increase in the contribution rate of a mortgage institution and by an increase in the interest rate supplement for mortgage-like loans in a financial institution. Furthermore, no more than half of the sum of curfews and price cuts should be charged for the repayment of loans during the warning period. Then, for the second time, we remove the tape here in Denmark. Indeed, it is the case that the legislation does not today allow the borrower to transfer his entire mortgage loan to another mortgage institution if the loan limit is exceeded and that limits the mobility of the mortgage market. This can be removed, we think, since a change in legislation will not increase the overall risk to the mortgage sector. Furthermore, the borrowers, both private and corporate customers, must be able to move to another institution by conversion or loan conversion, even if the loan exceeds the loan limit. Transparency must be increased, and here we come to some of the things that are agreed in the political agreement to increase: transparency in terms of price cut and greater transparency in relation to the distribution of costs in loan offers. It is introduced by amendments to the Order of Good Practice for Housing Credit. Once a year, the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Consumer Ombudsman, will have to explain the development of contributions rates, interest rate supplements, etc. and in the market conditions in which institutions operate. In conclusion, it is the Social Democrats' expectation that the measures outlined will increase transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. We can therefore support the bill. However, I would also add that it is our clear expectation in the Social Democratic Party that institutions will have the opportunity to lower contributions rates and interest rate supplements once they have built up sufficient capital and reserves in relation to adopted and expected new capital requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420163342	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420163351	The draft law we are discussing here has been relatively long along the way. The discussion about strongly rising contribution rates, price cut and curtage has flourished for a long time, and with good reason many borrowers have felt deeply provoked by the approach that has been taken to a large number of contribution rate increases through the Danish mortgage institutions. In the Danish People's Party, we have no doubt that a number of these reasons for increasing the contribution rates have been both factual and well-founded, but at the same time we also think that it has been a provocation that it has been allowed to take precedence to put it bluntly. We have taken advantage of the opportunity: when the competitor does so, we do so too. This situation went on for a long time, and it all ended, you might say, a little historically last autumn, when it was Nykredit's turn to foretell big increases, among others. In view of the fact that it was felt that there were some new Basel requirements and there were some new financing requirements that had to be respected and that could not be complied with with with the current solidity. There may be good, reasonable reasons for this as such, but we have to note that this is true, for example. has not led to a change in the rate of contributions, the postponement of Basel requirements. On the contrary, it has been decided to grant a salary increase to the director of no less than 500,000 kroner. a month. I'm not really saying that because I'm particularly jealous. I wouldn't say no if I got the offer, but I really think it's gonna cause a lot of explaining problems. It is also something that makes it difficult to find political agendas in here to speak for these institutions. We are doing so far along the way, of course, anyway, because at the same time we also recognise that we in Denmark have the world's cheapest mortgage model. We are one of the countries where people are really able to offer competitive housing loans, housing financing, Danish companies and Danish homeowners, with the challenges today. That is good, and it is absolutely wise. We must continue to do so, but we also have to respect the fact that there are really many Danish borrowers who are being provoked by the fact that, for example, they are not going to be able to pay the price. is persuaded that they will then have to choose the fixed-rate loan because they will pay a slightly higher interest rate, but in return they have a great deal of certainty about what their future economy offers and what their fixed housing costs are. They know this until they get a new post, which then says that their contribution rate and their expenses are now rising again in their mortgage companies. That's why Fair Contribution rate was founded and a lot of thousands of Danish homeowners joined forces in a joint action. I think we, as politicians, should welcome this. It was a wakeup call, you might say. But the Danish People's Party also recognises that our mortgage model must be based on a liberal basis. This means that there must be competition and that it must be market mechanisms that make it competitive to give citizens and customers the best possible low-interest loans. At the same time, we must also say that when you then still get into the challenge of it, yes, then we have good custom rules, which are among other things. go in and look at it in relation to the terms of the agreements, also in relation to the FSA, to those who are credit intermediaries and those who lend money and who ensure that it is done on a good basis. After all, the Committee of Experts made a large number of recommendations earlier, and we should then try to find a majority for any of it. There, of course, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I was a little sad that it was apparently only the Radical Left that supported us that we should also have introduced what is called Recommendation No. 5 from the Committee of Experts, in which it was clearly stated that we must of course have it so that we can have our curfew halved and its price cut compared to the period during which an increase in the rate of contribution has been announced. This means that it must be cheaper for people to be able to move their loans if they are affected by an increased rate of contributions, and that is what is happening with the legislative proposal that we have here today. We are proposing some of what the Danish People's Party has asked for, precisely that during the warning period, as a mortgage institution, which releases a borrower, only up to half of the sum of curfews and price cuts in connection with the transfer of borrowers' loans to a foreign mortgage institution. Then there is also what the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has said, namely that at the same time we shall also have to do so so that those who have a loan which exceeds 80% of the value of the property are not tied to the institute they are in and forced to pay only at a cashier's office. No, of course they also have the opportunity to move the existing loan, but not additional loans if there is another institution that wants them as a customer. We also think that openness should be there, and this also contributes to mobility. Even though the director and management of the National Bank believe that this was a really bad idea, I am actually happy on behalf of the Danish People's Party to have proposed it. We're happy with the entire bill. We think this is a very good step in the right direction. We would have liked to have gone further, but of course we support the bill, because it is part of a political agreement from January.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420163939	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420163943	Thanks for the speech. I agree with many of the observations made by Hans Kristian Skibby, and I can also reassure Hans Kristian Skibby that SF also supports the proposal. After all, we would have liked the recommendation to have been followed by one hundred per cent in relation to curtage and price cut. Then we also had a proposal, and perhaps the DF's rapporteur could comment on this, which was that when there is so much uncertainty as to why the rates of contributions are increasing in addition to the fact that it is in order to make money one could just ensure that an independent authority or a competition authority or FSA, or whoever it might be, could simply say good for the increase and say: yes, in this case it is reasonable because it is based on concrete, new capital requirements, but in all sorts of other situations it is not reasonable because there is no full competition and one cannot just move one's loan. Will the rapporteur not comment on that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164052	The last thing I'd like to do first. It is of course no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are very much in favour of having an agreement in which we also have these opportunities. I have then suggested that this should be done, for example. could be under the control of the FSA. That was one of the things that was proposed before we agreed on the agreement in January. After all, we must be sure that this is done on a fully documented basis, which also means that we think it would be common sense for the reasons that come from the individual mortgage institutions to be analysed and verified, and then ask: does it make sense, and is it true that the institution in question does not have the right core capital or the right funding, and is there a risk that the bonds are not as attractive to investors as they have been? All these things speak for it, of course. The specific proposal referred to by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, we would very much like to take part in the debate. Our answer, of course, depends on what it will actually contain, but that is something that we have already proposed ourselves. I should also like to mention that I forgot to mention the SF in my rapporteur's speech about the fact that we also advocated recommendation number five.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164201	Thanks for the fairly clear announcement and of course also for refreshing my and the room's memory regarding that DF has also proposed something similar. I think that's very good. I believe that the outrage which the rapporteur and I share is due to the fact that we are constantly being presented with the argument that we need to padded, etc., and then we see record profits and withdrawals, etc., which far exceed what has been achieved through the rates of contributions. For example: we could see the transaction from Realkredit Denmark to Danske Bank and then a buy-back of dividends for 20 billion. kr., and then that argument falls to the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164241	I agree with many of the points outlined by the questioner from the SF. You can always wonder how these mechanisms are connected. After all, we in the Danish People's Party have problematized what appears to be under way, namely that we expect a much higher return on capital, also within the mortgage. That is something that matters to the many borrowers, because we have traditionally been used to expecting a lower return on capital on mortgage funds than if you had the money in, for example, the money in. a bank. We would also like to help ensure this in the future, because we can see that the mortgage model, as we so historically know it, no longer exists today. The mortgage credit institutions have been capitalised in quite a different way today than they were in the past. At least the idea of participation is of infinitely minor importance, it has to be said, and of course we have to make sure that these things are brought in. And if we can't find out in the right way, we say, we'd like to take a part in looking at these rules of good practice, such as... will be enforced against the financial institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164337	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164344	The history of the bill here has been affected, but allow me to repeat that it is well over a year since a large number of homeowners in Denmark experienced that their contribution rates increased significantly. This caused great frustration, for many customers felt that they were very locked to the institute they were in and that the possibilities of moving their loans and making use of the competition were not enough present. At that time, the Minister for Business and Growth Troels Lund Poulsen set up a committee of experts to look at the transparency and competition in the mortgage market; a committee of experts then delivered its seven recommendations in September last year. And on the basis of those recommendations and a political debate over a certain period of time, we then arrived at a very broad political agreement in January of this year. It is an agreement that basically aims to strengthen transparency and strengthen competition in the Danish mortgage market. For this is the best way to ensure that consumers benefit from free competition • that it is easier to change mortgage institutions and that there is much more transparency in prices and conditions so that consumers can use their right to trade elsewhere. In concrete terms, and I know that a number of the elements have already been mentioned, it is fundamental that the warning period should be extended from 3 to 6 months and that a much better explanation should be given when increasing contributions are announced. If the explanations are not good enough, the possibility of that lapses. And then, as has also been mentioned, we remove the possibility of charging a redemption fee. We have then come to the conclusion that only half the curfew and price cut may be charged. And, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, it was an issue on which opinions were divided. It was not, after all, a wish that we did not want to make it as cheap as possible for customers, but on the basis that it was in fact one of the elements in which we saw that there was free competition. In fact, it was one of the elements on which competition took place, on top of the rising rates of contributions that one institute, in particular, came up with last year. There were competing institutes that just struck on this as a parameter for why you had to switch to their institute, and there they significantly reduced the price. I think there were some who even completely removed it. However, we then landed on a plane to make sure that there is broad political support that a maximum of half can be charged in curtage and price cut. I think it is important that there is broad political support in this area. I will come back to that. I would also like to highlight the element which actually goes beyond the recommendations and on which there was disagreement in the Committee of Experts, namely that it will be possible to have the possibility, if another mortgage credit institution so wishes, of taking over a loan from a borrower, even if the loan limit has been exceeded. I also noted, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party did, that the National Bank was not enthusiastic about it. However, I think that, if we look at it a little more broadly, we should improve financial stability, in the sense that if there is a borrower, for example, at 90%, and there is another institution that believes that it is an attractive customer, then it is relatively expected that the institute in question will do so only because there is a prospect of security and an expectation that you will get the money back and that it is a good business for the institute in question. It may be at a sharper price. At any rate, the situation which I have unfortunately been presented with many examples of the fact that if your loan limit has been exceeded, then there is, in fact, relatively much room for a mortgage credit institution to raise the contribution rates, because as a customer you do not have the opportunity to move. I'm really glad we brought that element. In fact, I think that will have a major impact on competition for those concerned. In general, the consultation responses to the proposal are also quite neat. There are some small details which I am quite sure we can finally uncover during the committee work. And, as I said, I am very pleased that this is a broad political agreement, because we have a very good mortgage system in Denmark which guarantees the Danes some of the cheapest housing funding at all. There's a lot of credibility. Our mortgage bonds are internationally rated as bottom-solid. And then I think it is important that we also have a political role to play in ensuring a high level of trust and transparency and proper competition, so that we are sure that the Danish home owners will get their mortgages at the highest possible price. That is why, of course, we support the draft law. And I have promised to announce that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164905	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420164909	It is indeed very positive that this proposal takes some steps to make it easier to change mortgage institutions without excessive costs, but the fact is that some of the very high costs of changing mortgage institutions can often be for quite different reasons. It may be that the interest rate has risen in the meantime; it may be courses; it may be different other things. So the reality is that in this area there will never be a competitive situation like the one where I can buy one pair of socks in Netto and the other pair in Facts. And so we will be in a situation where, compared to all sorts of other markets, it is much easier for these mortgage institutions to screw the fee screw, as we have seen, it has happened simply because it is not so easy to move. Does the rapporteur think that with the proposal that is adopted and which Enhedslisten also supports, we have ensured Danish homeowners against the enormous insecurity that has followed the repeated contribution rate increases of recent years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165013	I believe that with this proposal we will ensure more transparency and a much better competitive situation. And I think it is essential that we give consumers a better opportunity to see through the market, to be more enlightened, to be more familiar with what is available from alternatives, what competitors can offer. I think that's the most important thing. It is true that when it comes to mortgage loans, there will be some customers where an increasing contribution rate could lead to one saying: Okay, then I take my good clothes and go and score a big price win. Maybe that'll make it easier for them. On the other hand, there may be some who are facing a price loss, so their desire to move may not be that great. That's the way it's gonna be. However, I think it is important that we ensure that the costs beyond what is of exchange rate fluctuations, which is a condition of our mortgage system, are minimized. This is what we are doing and we are ensuring that transparency and competition are strengthened. And that is what I think is the most important thing to guarantee consumers the highest possible prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165120	Our mortgage system is being talked about as if it were the same as it always was, but it isn't. The big difference is that in the past, where you had a rest in yourself - the principle that no one should make money on our mortgage - we have over the last few decades got the banks in, and they take care, if I may say so, well paid. In other words, the mortgage has simply become a milking machine for banks in the pocket of Danish home owners. Does the rapporteur think that with this proposal we will see a break, that is to say a drop or at least a flattening of the increase in the contribution rates, or does the rapporteur think that the banks will continue to use Danish homeowners as economic dairy cattle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165203	I think that the Enhedslisten and the Left have a fundamentally different view of how the economy is viewed. But what is quite clear is that the best thing to give consumers is more competition. This strengthens competition, and it helps to ensure a better competitive situation. And a better competitive situation will put everything else at a lower price. So this is why this is a very good step to strengthen transparency and competition, and it will also benefit Danish home owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, and it's still Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165247	Thank you. The security of our housing economy is perhaps one of the most central economic issues for most families, whether you own your home, whether you rent your home or whether you are in work or are looking for work. Sudden changes in our economic conditions, whether they come from rising tax payments or from rising contribution rates or from rising rents, are something that creates enormous insecurity for Danish families. And that is why we have also been very concerned and active in the Enhedslisten about the problem we have seen in recent years, namely that, yes, hundreds of thousands of Danish homeowners have experienced exploding contributions rates, that is, contributions rates that could increase by many, many thousands of kroner. This is a serious problem and it has been taken far too little seriously by political groups. The fact is that in the old days we had mortgage associations, which functioned on the basis of a self-sustaining principle. The contribution rates had to cover the costs, and they had to collect, you might say, any losses. A shared responsibility for this was taken. That's what the contribution rates were supposed to cover. This is no longer the case because most mortgage providers have now become part of large financial groups. They are owned by the banks and they must be paid, and we must then promise that that is the case. After all, we have seen how too completely open a blanket has stuck its fingers in the pockets of Danish home owners on the pretext that it is a matter of padding, raising the contribution rates, and so it has been channeled right over to the banks and their shareholders. One of the reasons why you have been able to do this is, of course, the injustice that is that in mortgage loans there is the built-in possibility that you can constantly change the terms, primarily in terms of how much is paid in contributions. This can be said to be okay in the old days, because nobody had to profit from it, so there was an expectation that if the contribution rates increased, then it was because it was needed to cover any collective losses or because there was growing administrative costs. But that is not the case today. Instead, it has become such a Trojan horse into the economy of the homeowners. To make things worse, we also have a situation where it is difficult for customers to vote with their feet and choose another mortgage institution. There are some positive elements in this proposal, but in our view it is far from far enough. For example: It is a good thing that in future we will have to justify the increase in the rate of contributions, but there are no specific requirements as to the justifications to be given. There may be many reasons that can be used which do not seem reasonable, but as long as they are disclosed, that is the way it is. It is also difficult to assess whether these reasons are the real reasons. After all, we have seen that there have been completely incorrect reasons. It has been said that it was about padding, but in reality it was about something quite different, namely channelling money to its shareholders. It is also good that, in future, the costs of changing institutions will be reduced after the rates of contributions have been increased. We would have liked the Consumer Council to have followed the line of thinking by going even harder in terms of redemption fees and in relation to curfew and price cut, but even if you had chosen that model, the problem that I also mentioned before was still faced, namely that there may be other significant costs involved in moving your loan, for example. if the interest rate has risen in the meantime. So the reality is that in this area we will never establish a real competitive situation, as in other areas we can do, or what we could imagine, because there will always be some who have a real difficulty in moving. And that, unfortunately, gives the banks and the bank-owned mortgage banks too much opportunity to squeeze the lemon. So we need a much harder regulation of this area. Basically, we need to go for a regulation that says that it is fine to increase the contribution rates if there is a proper justification for this. And that reason must be approved by supervision. It was not necessary at the time the mortgage banks were, as they were a few years ago, when they had a rest in themselves. But it is necessary today if we are to protect Danish homeowners from becoming economic dairy cattle for the banks, which are behind most mortgage institutions today. So we support this proposal on the principle that it is an improvement, but unfortunately it does not solve the problem. It does not restore any security whatsoever for the homeowners, and it will not be the last time we will be discussing this issue here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165808	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420165820	Thank you for that, President. This bill is the implementation of the agreement on increased transparency and mobility in the mortgage market, which was concluded earlier this year by a broad section of the Folketing. The agreement is again a consequence of the debate that arose in the wake of Nykredit's, Totalkredit's increase in their contribution rates in 2016. I said then, and I still think it was a very unsightly debate we had. A private company in competition with other private companies must be able to raise prices without political intervention. But we have now reached this agreement and it contains various elements, some of which are sensible enough, but I also think I would be lying if I said that we would have concluded the agreement if we had not been in government. It would probably be quite easy to demonstrate that we did not, because when we had the debate, we were not in government, and there I and LA criticised the debate and the desire for intervention on its basis. But now there are some changes, and that is one of them. changes which give rise to information on the reasons for the increase in contributions, even very specific information on the percentage basis of the changes in contributions. I think that may be a little strange, because it is difficult for a mortgage credit institution, just as it is for all other companies, to say crown-to- krone why you raise the price of the product. If we now imagined that we should ask Arla or others for crowns to say why they raised the price of a litre of milk by 25 cents, they would probably have difficulty with it, as it is quite complicated, but nevertheless we are now asking mortgage banks to do so. Then the warning period is increased from 3 to 6 months. It will be prohibited to charge redemption fees and, in future, an institution will not be able to charge more than half of the sum at the time of price cut when loans are settled during the early warning period, by increasing the contribution rate of a mortgage credit institution and by increasing the interest rate supplement on mortgage-like loans in financial institutions. I think there is one thing that should be taken into account, whether you think this is a very good proposal or whether you think it is a less good proposal, and that is that the costs that are running a mortgage institution and also know that people change mortgage institutions and repay loans etc. do not disappear. They will then be imposed on other homeowners. One can then discuss how reasonable it is that the costs that are, by acting and choosing to act also as a customer, must be borne by those customers who do not choose to act. I do not think it is particularly reasonable and I think it would be fair for the Folketing to be honest that the costs are now being applied to other homeowners. I do not think this has been very clear in the debate, but I think it is fair to say so. But we are in the agreement, which is why, of course, we stand by it, and that is why we naturally support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170225	Thank you. This gave rise to one brief remark by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170231	Thank you. I mean, it's not like Mr. Chandler didn't do it. Joachim B. Olsen's views are a surprise to me, but I was nevertheless surprised that he compared changing mortgage institutions to buying a litre of milk. Because I think he must speak against better knowledge, and then I think it is strange that a liberal or at least a liberal thinks that a situation where there is so little competition in a particular market is quite fine. So will the rapporteur not say anything about whether competition in the field of mortgage credit is good enough and whether it really is comparable to buying a litre of milk? After all, there are quite a lot of others who also produce milk. It is quite easy to buy your milk elsewhere or by another company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170323	Of course, a litre of milk and borrowing from a mortgage credit institution are two different products, but it is the principle to which I refer here, that is to say, that we go in and regulate, given that some people choose to raise prices in a market. I believe that I am aware that there are some who believe that there is not because they say that there are not hundreds of mortgage credit institutions, but that is not an argument for the absence of competition. What we can see is that in Denmark we have the cheapest housing funding in the world. If there was a lot of money to be made from being a mortgage institution in Denmark because we had poor competition and bad regulation, then it would probably roll in with foreign housing finance models because there was a lot of money to earn because you could make it cheaper. But that is not the case. So just because you say and have a view that there is no competition, that is not necessarily true, and I do not think that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170444	No, but we can discuss that forever. However, a market in which there are four mortgage institutions and where two of them sit on just under two thirds of the market, I do not know if there is anyone other than Mr. Joachim B. Olsen who would call perfect competition or something near it. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen also said that it was the same principle as with milk. But it is not exactly the same principle. For the principle is that if you think your milk has become too expensive in Use, then you go to Fact or to a third place, and you do not get a fee for buying your milk in Fact instead of in Use. You don't get an extra bill to buy it somewhere else or to move your groceries somewhere else. So it is precisely the principle that is not the same, and when we hear again and again that it is the rates of contributions that have to pay for the upholstery, and we can clearly see that it is simply not true, then there is something wrong. Because it's an unpredictability of the deal you've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170543-2	As far as I am aware, there are also two players on the vast majority of the market in the consumer goods sector. There, however, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen apparently thinks there is competition. In the field of mortgage credit there are also few players, but one cannot conclude that because there are few players, this is an expression of the absence of competition. There you have to look at what the price is like. If the price is completely down, it is that there are few players, an expression that it is difficult for new players to get to make money. Well, you can't just conclude that because there are few players in a market, it's in itself a sign that there's no competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170625	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170629	The problem is certainly closer, from my point of view at least, that there is competition, but that competition takes place between some financial institutions which have a very, very distorted expectation of a return that will ultimately have to be paid by the landowners. So my question is really just about the mortgage system we had a few years ago. Here you had competition and you had a number of different mortgage institutions, but they all worked, by the way, like large parts of our supply sector do today, according to a rest in itself principle. This means that no profit should be generated which, if it were to be said, was channelled away from the landowners. It was only intended to cover the costs of borrowing these loans and any losses that could be incurred, for which one saw to some extent collectively liable. Does the rapporteur agree, and perhaps now it is somewhat ideological, that it was a better system for homeowners, that there was no one, if you may say so, outsiders, who should have their hand in their wallet, but that it rested in itself, as we do, for example. does it also know from our water supply and from many other places?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170738	I do not necessarily agree with that. I also think that something has been absent from the debate, namely that we have had a Parliament which has been very willing to introduce new regulations, supervisory diamonds and other things, and which has had a wish that people should be transferred to certain loans, and then the mortgage banks have raised the contributions on the loans that we have said we would like to get people out of, and then we hit them behind in the head when they raise the contributions. I think this is an example of how the debate has been unsightly. It is not just us in Denmark, but also Basel and elsewhere in the European Union that have come up with a whole lot of regulation that has increased the costs for mortgage banks, and then we go out and criticise them for raising, for example. the contributions. I do not think it has been quite fair, and it is not because I feel particularly sorry for the institutions. It's not. This is because I think we should be very careful about tampering with regulation and tampering with this system, because it is a very, very liberal system we have and it has ensured very cheap housing funding for Danes for many years, and it has been extremely robust in the face of crises.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170904	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420170907	Thank you, sir. President. I'm just a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Joachim B. Olsen compares the Danish mortgage with drinking milk. I think it's a little far-fetched, I have to confess. Well, many people only buy mortgage products maybe once or twice in their lives... some people almost never experience it if they live for rent. Milk is bought daily; it is something you consume, it is something you drink, and then it is gone. And you can buy it in many different places. Daily groceries buy it in via purchasing schemes etc. And I totally agree that there is competition in relation to it, and in the end there are not many other people besides Arla. But I just think, in all silence, that milk production cannot be compared with mortgage. So says Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also says that if there wasn't this competition, you'd see it coming across the borders with other competitors. I would like to ask: can the rapporteur mention other countries where there is a mortgage bond market as well developed as there is in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171021	I'm not comparing running a mortgage with milk production. I am based on a principle that, when we have a free market with a free pricing system, it is a bad thing to go in and interfere in that price fixing on the basis of a public debate, in which some people understandably find it a pity that the price is rising on the product they have now bought and signed on the market. And I think it's a bad idea to go in and do it. And no, there are no other countries where you have an equally good model of housing financing, and that is because the Danish mortgage model is a market-based model with an incredibly high degree of transparency. It is a very, very liberal model that we have, which has ensured low prices, low housing funding for the Danes for over 100 years. And we must be extremely careful to change that regulation on the basis of a public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171135	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171143	Thank you. I would like to welcome today's compromise: it is a beautiful, beautiful thought we had when we went to the Danish Parliament for the Alternative, that we would see how far we could go with all our visions, all our options and suggestions, and then of course we would bite to fuck when we got the chance to join, even if it cost some of the edge that we thought was right for Denmark. And, unfortunately, we were not in the contract room itself, but we were subsequently invited to support the agreement. We chose to do this by means of the ideas and ideas we had on how we would have liked to have seen this agreement screwed up, also being lifted in the locality by my fellow rapporteur from the SF, because earlier Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative tabled a motion for a resolution in which we had some other conditions in relation to the mortgage credit institutions. So how it was all screwed up and how we wanted to create transparency, how we wanted to ensure greater flexibility, and how we wanted to ensure that the money that came in when some buttons were screwed up could not go to profit or pay increases in management, etc. Well, our voice was heard in the room, and we just have to say that there we couldn't get any further. The bill we have here today was as much as we could agree on. So I just want to say, good for it. It is to the satisfaction of a great many Danes, I believe that, after all, we are strengthening transparency and making it a little easier and a little more flexible to change the mortgage credit institution even though I agree fully with the Enhedslistens rapporteur in the recitals he made earlier in the debate. Then I would like to congratulate the previous rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, again to stand as a member of a party and to dare to say that the party can actually disagree with the government policy that is being put forward, the agreement that we have here. And it is not to be polemical; on the contrary, it is quite frankly said that I think it is strong that you can have parties that sit in government and that stick to what you really want to see society, how you think it should be, even if you compromise in a government. I hope that, in the alternative too, we will be able to comply with this when we sit in government, that is to say that we can have the courage of our opinions, despite the fact that we have to be part of a compromise in a government. So we support the agreement and are happy to have been invited, although next time we would like to sit in the contract room.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171436	Otherwise, you can wait until you have 90 seats; that is quite correct. Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171447	Thank you to the President and thank you for this lesson in parliamentarianism; it is always good to get from the President. Today we are discussing a bill based on an agreement made by a very broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties. It is, of course, based on the fact that we all think that the mortgage system in Denmark is really, really good, and it is for several reasons. It is because it provides very, very cheap loans • surprisingly cheap loans • to the Danes, and then it is actually a very solidarity system that avoids some institutes going in and like Cherrypicker, so the very best loans give the safest places and then provide expensive loans in the rest of the country. On the contrary, with the mortgage credit system it is actually possible to obtain cheap loans throughout the country, and I think it is worth welcoming that there is broad support for that before we discuss the mortgage at all. Then it is clear that there have been some problems. I also think that there were some problems with the legitimacy of mortgage banks, if I am to be honest. For there are simply too many customers who have felt very badly treated in the process: they sign a contract and, although it is true that the contract says that the rates of contributions can be changed, they have nevertheless felt bound when one side can change the contract, but the other cannot actually at very high cost. In other words, the fact that institutions have been able to raise the contribution rates and customers has not been able to change the institution in response to it at very high cost, both in relation to curfew, price cut, fee and, of course, the possible price losses or the rising interest rates that may be due to the time at which they choose to change. In other words, there has been a political problem for the whole sector, which we have had to take up politically, in other words because we have not been able to do this ourselves. I would, of course, have liked the institutions to have agreed to set up some kind of free-riding scheme, for example. Three months when you raise the contribution rate, that is to say when you say that you do not require curfew, price cut and fees during that period. But we have not been able to do so, and then we have had to look at it politically. It is not unreasonable for us to regulate this area because it is a highly regulated area. I mean, it's also stupid to talk about this as if it's a supermarket, which is also a fairly regulated area, by the way. It is a market that can only work because we have made political rules for it, and therefore it is quite fair that we make legislation in this area and that we ensure that we get the best of two worlds. Then roses have been distributed from up here, and I will also do so to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who has been a very good partner in this, in other words to ensure, together with Radicals, that something has actually happened in this area. We would have liked to have gone all the way with the recommendation made by the Committee of Experts that there should be no curfew, price cut or fees for the three months that would be the warning period. Instead, in this agreement, it has been raised to six months. I'm not sure that's a better deal for the departments, if I'm to be honest. I think they could be just as well served by 3 months and that they themselves covered the whole curfew and the course cut. But that's how it's ended in these negotiations when we couldn't get all the way with the other things. But all in all, we think it's pretty good that we've come some way with this. I also hope that this will help to solve some of the political problems that have arisen, because a sector that we are really, really happy about and for which we should like to have a large, broad support, while at the same time making customers feel reasonably treated all the way through. So these are important steps we have taken here, and the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171835	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171840	Thank you for a good speech, and I also fully agree with the opening words that we still have a mortgage system which is solidarity in comparison with many other places. It is not just a geographical distinction, but also a distinction between the individual borrower, as you can see in many other countries, where it can be really difficult to obtain a loan. I just have a question. Now the Danish People's Party was praised, and I would also like to do so in this case, because we have often been in agreement with each other there too. However, one of the things that the Danish People's Party, together with Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative have previously advocated, was to introduce some form of supervision, which thus said that it is fair enough, as such, if there are reasonable reasons for raising the contribution rates, for example. new regulatory requirements, but that is not a reasonable reason if it is just because you want to increase profits for the shareholders of the banks. That is why we need to have supervision which says: OK, there is a basis for this and, of course, the rates of contributions must be reduced again, for example. When that capitalisation has happened. What is the real attitude of the Radicals towards this idea, not of the specific proposal, but of that kind of thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420171943	We think it is a good thing that we should explain why the individual contribution rate should be increased. Whether or not we should have a new body at this time, I will not actually stand here and take a stand on it, not least because here a small disclaimer is in fact Martin Lidegaard who has permanently taken over the rapporteurship when he has returned from maternity leave. So I'd rather let him give a final answer than stand up here and promise one thing or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172009	There is full understanding of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172015	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172025	There's full understanding. Then we thank the rapporteur and then we reached Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172029	Something's happened in the last few years. Until recently, we all talked about Danish mortgage as standing in a pink glow. It was a long story. For 200 years we have had it, and this has been guaranteed, as many have also rightly said, by the Danes very stable and cheap housing loans. But a few decades ago, and especially in the last few years, something has happened to Danish mortgages. And it is, as I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party explained very well that it has become so much a milking machine for the banks rather than, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, said to appear as something that in principle rests in itself. That is really, really a pity, because that system worked for 200 years, and now we have a situation where you cannot know mortgage from banks. They have found out for themselves, which is why they have created a new joint body called Finance Denmark, and in this way it is very honest. It is a bit like having a secret affair, everyone knows about it anyway, and then you jump out and say that now you are both engaged and married. That's okay. Now a common voice has been made to speak through the whole financial sector. That is why, hopefully, the end is also the end of seeing too naive and rosy the mortgage sector, because it has merged with the big banks. We can also look at the cash flows. From mortgage banks billions are pouring into banks' funds, and when we have repeatedly criticized and asked: what are the increases in these rates of contributions for? We are told that it is because of upholstery that it is because of the evil politicians and the evil Basel people who impose higher and higher capital requirements. But we can then see again that when there are general meetings, like there have been a sea of this spring, and we see what is being paid to shareholders in dividends and withdrawals, it does not reflect that the mortgage or banks should be upholsteryed. On the contrary. An example is from Danske Bank's general meeting. It is not to point the finger at those I was just with myself, and I asked the question: when billions from Realkredit Denmark are now being transferred to Danske Bank and then 19 billion are being paid out. kr. in withdrawals and dividends, how does this relate to the argument that we have heard over and over again about upholstery? And the answer was, like everywhere else, where we also ask that it is not really connected either. It's to spoil the shareholders. That brings us to what I also think is Mr Beazley's report. Pelle Dragsted said very precisely that it has become a completely perverse level to which the return on capital should be, i.e. these 11, 12%. Never before have there been such high expectations as to be able to demand of one's investment in the mortgage. That return requirement has come up to a level that not only some of us in here, but many others also notice and say: it is totally unrealistic high, it is not appropriate in the field of mortgage credit to demand such a high return. But that is what the system has gradually got used to and what it needs to do. Now to the deal. I would have liked more, but now you don't have to stand on a day like today and wear the no-hat. In relation to the number of different parties involved, I think that this is an excellent agreement. It gives some better relationships. We would have liked the Consumer Council to think and the recommendations of the Committee of Experts to ban both the redemption fee and the full cure and the full price cut during the warning period for changes in contributions. I actually heard that from the Danish People's Party and also from others. There was no support for that, but 50%. is something, too. We would have liked that too, and I think I made that very clear to the Minister, that we would like to have what both the Danish People's Party and the Alternative and Enhedslist have mentioned, namely a supervision that could simply go in and say that it is objectively reasonable if the contribution rate increases, because it can be, or it is not. And when it should be a supervision or a competition authority, it is precisely because it is an area where there is not very good competition and where it is so expensive to move and where you can not just, as if you are going to have milk, go in Netto or in Facts after a cheaper milk or to the kiosk, or where it is, after a cheaper product. And if, therefore, it is an issue that is so important to the economy and to the economy of ordinary people that it is some of the greatest costs people have ever incurred, then it is only fair that an authority should be required to agree to it or not to do so. Now I see that the President is standing up, so I shall finish. But, of course, we support the agreement. We're on our own. There has been some discussion back and forth about whether it is a conciliation or a vote agreement. It's a vote deal. We will continue to pursue some of our own other objectives, but I would also like to commend the Minister for coming up with an agreement in which everyone can see themselves and where there is no retrograde step. And that's always good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one brief comment that has crept in. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172638	Thank you for that, President. Can the rapporteur explain how the mortgage banks would get the equity we have asked them to have if no one would shoot it in the form of share capital? How would they get that equity?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172705	I simply do not understand the question. In other words, for 200 years we have had a system of mortgage bonds where the market has worked without a return requirement of 12%. So I am simply not sure what the question is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172725	It's not that hard. We've asked them to keep some more equity, so if they can't get it, by someone shooting some money in, how would they get it? I guess it's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172741	Yes, but the rapporteur indicates that the only way to get this money in is by someone investing, and then that money does not come out again, because then there has been a padding. However, I would just like to say that in 2015 50 per cent were earned. more in mortgage banks than in 2014 and 36%. more than in 2007, which was record years until then. So there has only been a general rise in revenue again and again from 2007 over the years of crisis and then to 2014, 2015 and 2016. You've only raised your earnings over and over again. It shows, therefore, that there is a difference between the rapporteur and I and that there has been an increase in revenue. It is largely because of the increase in contributions and because the return requirement has increased and increased, that is, what has to be paid to the owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172837	We'll try again. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420172847	Thank you for your comments and for the good dialogue that I think there has been. This is, of course, an extremely important topic for a great many Danes. It is about the most crucial thing in the private economy of most families, namely the purchase of own housing where you need mortgage loans. It is about ensuring the greatest possible transparency and transparency, as much competition as possible and as cheaply as possible. It is also part of the basis for a broad political agreement. I also hear that all the political rapporteurs are sympathetic to the steps that have been taken. Then there are some who have a little more ambition, but everyone agrees that some sensible steps have been taken. We reached this agreement earlier this year with the clear aim of increasing transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. The mortgage credit system plays a very important role in the overall supply of finance in Denmark and thus in economic activity in this country. The proper functioning of the mortgage credit system is therefore of great importance. The draft law provides for a rapid follow-up to the Committee's report and provides a basis for increased transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. It must be easier for borrowers to understand what opportunities there are for changing institutions if price increases are announced, and it must also be cheaper for borrowers to move institutions. We do this by ensuring that the borrower gets information about what is at the root of a price increase. Similarly, the borrower must be informed, in connection with the warning of price increases, of, inter alia: opportunities to repay the loan. In addition, we extend the warning period and provide a framework for the costs that may be incurred by borrowers in changing institutions. We are introducing, among other things, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. the prohibition on the collection of redemption fees and institutions are only able to collect half of the sum resulting from curfew and price cut during the warning period. In addition, we shall ensure that there is clarity about the impact on borrowers if institutions do not justify an announced increase in contributions properly or do not comply with the six-month warning period. In such cases, increases in contributions and charges could not be charged to the borrowers. If the rules are not complied with, the institution shall start afresh and notify price increases anew. In order to increase mobility in the mortgage market, we also open the way for borrowers to move to another mortgage institution, even if the mortgage loan exceeds the loan limits. Overall, I am pleased that we have achieved the broad political agreement. Indeed, it is good initiatives that improve the mortgage credit system and I look forward to the committee's examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173142	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173148	Thank you for that and also thank you for a fine review. That is clearly a step forward. However, I think most people may also agree that we have probably not secured housing owners against future increases in contributions rates, and those who are already covered by them, and who have received very, very substantial increases, will not be helped by this proposal. I know that the Conservative People's Party, like the Enhedslisten, is very concerned about these sudden changes, and it doesn't matter whether it's tenants or owners or whether it's taxes or contributions rates. It's not good for anyone when your housing economy can suddenly change. Does the Minister think that this measure has contained the problem which so many Danes have responded to in recent years, most recently last spring, because of the changes that have taken place in the mortgage sector, where we see these enormously rising rates of contributions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173257	I do not think that with such a political finger-tip exercise here and a snapshot solution we can solve all the problems for homeowners in terms of mortgage lending. However, it is a step towards achieving a more transparent market, a more transparent market, and that it will be cheaper and easier to change mortgage institutions, and I believe that that is where the market will be, and I believe that we will have a situation in which it will become more obvious that, for example, it will not be possible to change mortgage institutions. In this way, you can also see that they can compete on the rates of contributions. We've got one of them. even made a website that the Danish FSA stands for, where you can go in and check specific prices and look back a few months and then look at what prices have been and there are other websites where you can go in and check what prices are in the future. However, because we both have an empire behind us, and we have some pages that tell us about what lies ahead, much more openness is also created, which means that as a consumer you can change company more easily. Because we have reduced prices, and we have also made it easier to change companies, and then I hope and believe that there will be more competition, so that consumers will have more choice to choose the cheapest possible mortgages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173415	I think that's really nice. But what we have seen, unfortunately, is that mortgage credit institutions are very much followed up when they have raised the rates of contributions, which may suggest that competition is not very good. But as the expert group already writes on page 2 of their review, it's about what they call the changed ownership structures, so in other words we've gone away from these original mortgage associations to a bank ownership structure, and they're actually also writing that when Nykredit gets on the stock exchange I still hope that it will be prevented, but if that happens then the last thing, if I may say, will be gone. For Nykredit, it can be said, has put a damper on price developments in the years up to their last contribution rate increase. So my question is really just: if we see a continuation of this development in which the banks, perhaps because they do not have so much income elsewhere, so take their profits by sticking their fingers in the pockets of the homeowners and raising the rates of contributions, the Minister will be willing to take this up, for example. In one year, in one and a half years, in two years, looking at it again and looking at whether we have created a slightly too large slaraff country for the banks in relation to using the landowners as a kind of economic dairy cattle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173525	After all, the whole of the financial sector is both characterised by a great deal of complexity, but, I think, also such a non-ideological approach to regulation in this area. Because if you were wearing either one or the other hat, you would actually think that there should be no regulation at all or that there should be over-regulation. I think that most people, including the government, are in between, that is to say, yes, we believe in a free market, we believe that as a consumer you choose the product that suits you best, but there is a need for some regulation that means that it is easier to change company and that it is cheaper to change company, and that is why we have made this agreement. Because there is also a need for a framework on this, and that is also an answer to the question that Mr. Pelle Dragsted is still standing. I do not rule out future initiatives. Right now I do not see that it is needed, but I will not rule it out, because this is a field of tension in which we have the task of protecting consumers, while at the same time believing in a free market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173627	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173628	Thank you, sir. President. Now there was a pleasant peaceful atmosphere to Mr. Pelle Dragsted from the Enhedslisten in relation to questions and answers, but that was not quite in the Minister's speech, because I heard that there was a little noise on the backdrop between the rapporteurs of the SF and the Liberal Alliance, who I still do not believe have agreed where the money comes from, i.e. a little like these lottery advertisements, but at least the question was put by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur: where does the money come from for the expansion of core and guarantee capital, which must be as collateral for bonds and so on?? Therefore, I would like the Minister to confirm whether it is not true that in 2003 the total amount of contribution rate payments in Denmark was 6 billion. kr., and that in 2015 we reached 20 billion. kr. in contribution rate payments plus price cut of just under 2 billion. kr., so that means we've gone from 6 billion. kr. a year to 22 billion. kr. a year. Would the Minister not just confirm, for the sake of good order, that this money can be set aside, put it into core capital as collateral for loans, and that if you want to, you can also, as some people claim, choose to pay the money out to the shareholders, that is to say, the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173800	I am quite sure that the figures are correct, because I know Mr. President. Hans Kristian Skibby as a very, very trustworthy politician, but I don't even have the figures up here, so, I don't know what was of total contributions rates in 2003 and 2015, and I don't think I could afford to sit and google while questions were asked, but I'm quite sure they're correct. A very large part of the explanation is both the common political demands we have made in Denmark and the implementation of Basel requirements and requirements in relation to EU requirements, which mean that the solidity and the foundations that are under the mortgage and the financial sector are different in the two years compared here, namely 2015 and 2003. For it happened in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers cracked and the cardboard boxes were carried out and put on the streets of New York, that the political system fortunately reacted very quickly, as early as September, October and November, with various bank packages both internationally and nationally, and this meant that quite different capital requirements were made in, for example, the United Kingdom. the mortgage. This has meant, for example, that: the rates of contributions have increased. A great deal has also been paid out as dividends, probably after 2011 and 2012, when the solidity of the mortgage and the banks had been restored, but a large part of it is, therefore, due to increased political demands on the sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420173943	Will the Minister confirm that although we had Lehman Brothers cracked and so on? In 2008 we had in Denmark, despite the fact that there were rising bi rage rates and in general slightly higher costs, still Danish homeowners, private property owners, of which 99.7%. Paid their mortgage on time? For the rest of us, the claim is that where you had the losses after among others. Lehman Brothers, etc., were with those who had given of their investments, those who had bought rentals and those who had bought commercial properties, and that the whole bill ended up with private customers. That is what we are a little provoked by, even today, and that is why I think it would be nice to have those ratios automatically, because there is no reason why we should sit and argue about things that are actually quite easy to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174042	There is no doubt that it is true that a very large part of the cause of the financial crash in September-October 2008 was the over-equipped investments, and it was subprime loans in the United States combined with many, many other different elements both nationally and internationally. The Danish mortgage was tested in probably the worst time since 1929, when Wall Street crashed and it all fell, but then the real Kretitten passed. That is why we need to defend the unique design and structure of the mortgage, both by constantly ensuring and making proper conditions for it, but also by ensuring that it does not come under attack, so that consumers can be better able to use the unique system of mortgage credit. We must, of course, defend this internationally, but we must also defend it nationally by not making too tough, I think, political demands on the mortgage, because it has passed its test, and it has provided the Danes with a great opportunity to borrow for housing and business for a few hundred years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174149	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174154	I also believe that it is because we are all concerned about the mortgage credit that we are concerned with, but perhaps with a slightly different focus from the various parties, because I fully agree with Mr Tugendhat. Hans Kristian Skibby from DF in that the picture is quite extreme when you look at how large profits are generated. As I also asked Mr. Joachim B. Olsen just now, you could see that the last three years have been record years in record years and even record years compared to 2007, which was a record year, when you see billions flowing from mortgage banks to banks and on to record dividends and withdrawals to shareholders. That is what frustrates and offends the property owners. Right now, you could say it's gonna be okay. It may feel unfair • It is what is the minister's message to the banks if interest rates should suddenly rise and you still have contributions rates at that level? Because then it will really hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174311	There is no simple answer to how high rates of contributions can be avoided. It is, after all, a diversity of elements that means that we have high rates of contributions in Denmark. It is very, very strict regulatory requirements for the sector, which means that you have to feed your own machinery space in relation to equity capital and core capital and ensure proper soundness. It is certainly also a question of the fact that these are better times, better business cycles for lending, not only to private people but also to industries that have made greater profits. I never mind making profits. We live in a market economy society, so it is fine that people earn some money, but it is clear that there must always be an opportunity for all homeowners to have cheapest possible loans, because it is part of the prerequisite for living in the society we live in, that we have the unique mortgage structure, and therefore it must be easier to change, cheaper to change, and it must also be more transparent that you can choose a mortgage company that is cheaper than what you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174420	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174424	The Minister says that it is not simple to answer why the rates of contributions are increasing, but I think it is. It is quite simple because when you look at the figures, you can see that the banks have never paid as much in dividends and withdrawals as they have this year. So black and white, it's record year this year 27.5 billion. kr., where a bank alone stands for the 19 billion. kr. It's a record year. When you pay so much to your shareholders, people ask the question: What happened to the padding argument? We were told it was all these capital requirements. That is what is unfair in it, and that is why we had proposed to say that an objective authority would then have to approve these increases, because there may be perfectly reasonable reasons why it is increasing so much. There just isn't today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174521	I think that, in general terms, it is a bad thing if you want authorities to assess what a price should be. If I go into a store to buy some fish that I want tonight, I don't want the state to decide that the four pieces of salmon I buy on offer for 100 kroner. at my local fish dealer's, only 80 kroner, because we have now decided to do so. After all, this is a product where there are several mortgage institutions that you can choose from. I have an x institute myself, and some people in this room probably have a y- or a Z-institution, and then you have to go shopping around and get the cheapest offer possible. That is what must be possible, and that is what this agreement helps to ensure, namely that there is better opportunity to change companies and to pay for cheaper money in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174613	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Industry, for there are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174633	As previously notified, Question No 19 is deleted. F 30 to the Foreign Minister on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, as the questioners have withdrawn the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174647	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 April 2017. It is then the rapporteur of the questioners who is allowed to give an introduction to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420174726	Thank you, sir. President. The Danish People's Party has called this question debate to form an impression of the starting position of the Danish Government in relation to the negotiations on Britain's future association with the EU in the light of the British referendum on 23 June 2016. It is not very easy to get the government out of the bush, compared to what is going to happen to Britain after the British decision to leave the EU. Tomorrow, at a closed point in the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, we will have to give the government a mandate for further negotiations on Britain's relations with the European Union, and this in itself is quite indicative of the way in which the British situation has so far been dealt with by the EU system, namely that it is going on behind closed doors and without the involvement of the citizens. What we have been able to see is that a number of countries, led by France, have wanted a common musketeer; one might call it a kind of common front against Britain. It is such a kind of punishment which should then make other countries not want to withdraw from the European Union. Denmark has a separate interest in keeping Britain as close to Denmark as possible. As you know, we have extensive trade with Great Britain, we have many common interests with the British and have also put them in common with many cases over the years in the European Union. Therefore, it is also essential to find out whether we have a government which, like the dead fish, intends to follow the southern European stream, which decrees punishments and a hard line against the British, or whether the government believes, as we do in the Danish People's Party, that it must be the end of all of these who want to punish the British, but instead that we should try to apply to the real negotiations with the British for an agreement that makes sense both for Denmark and the UK, and which Denmark might use. I will not hide that at all this evening as a model in relation to our future relationship with the European Union, which we would like the Danes to have the opportunity to take a position on when we have a clarification of the British situation. But we very much hope that the government will come a little out of the sand with what negotiating position the government intends to move towards. After all, we have found that the Prime Minister has held some meetings with, among others. Austria and Ireland. It might also be interesting to hear a little about what has come out of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420175008	That is exactly what we are about to do now, namely the response from the Foreign Minister. So he has the floor now. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420175018	Thank you. First of all, let me make it clear that the government attaches great importance to informing and involving the Danish Parliament in the preparations for Brexit. Questions have been answered in the Foreign Policy Name, just as both the Name and the European Committee have had the opportunity to discuss the issue in connection with presentations and reports from the summits. In addition, I and my predecessor have hosted informal breakfast meetings on Brexit with the participation of the European Committee and the Board of Governors. I hope that we can hold similar events forward-looking. Finally, we will discuss Brexit with the European Committee when the matter is on the agenda for Council meetings and summits. When it comes to the precise negotiating position in relation to the forthcoming complex and comprehensive negotiations on British withdrawal, the questioners will be aware that tomorrow the government will be presenting the matter, as was also mentioned, to the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs in camera. This is not an expression of unnecessary secrecy, but for good reasons the government does not wish to publish the Danish negotiating position, since it would weaken the ability to best protect the interests of Danish citizens and companies if Britain had a detailed insight into what we are thinking here at the threshold of negotiations. However, there is no doubt that the British withdrawal from the EU will have a major impact on both Britain and the other EU countries. In relation to Brexit, of course, I would like to share the general considerations of the government, which are the basis of the government's proposals for the Danish negotiating position. The government respects Britain's decision to leave the EU and the British Government's desire for a clear break with the EU and the internal market. I do not want to hide the fact that we would have preferred Britain to remain part of the internal market, but we must now try to get the best possible result out of the forthcoming negotiations and we will work to ensure that both sides, both sides, it is important for the government to state in this context that the situation we find ourselves in has not arisen because Britain has been pressured to leave the internal market because of freedom of movement; Britain itself has decided that it no longer wants to be part of the EU's common regulatory framework and of the European Court of Justice, which is the foundation of the internal market. This is clear from their letter of notification to the European Union. It is precisely these common rules that are effectively enforced by national authorities, by courts, by the Commission and, ultimately, by the European Court of Justice that allow citizens and businesses to trade freely across borders. It has been Britain's very own political choice. This does not mean that, after they have resigned, Britain cannot gain access to the internal market in line with other third countries. The specific framework for this will have to be negotiated as part of a free trade agreement, and I will then come back to that. One of the first major issues to be agreed between the United Kingdom and the other EU countries is the precise organisation of the negotiations. On the British side, the wish has been expressed that negotiations on settlements and the future relationship should be opened in parallel. However, there is expected to be a broad consensus within the EU-27 circle that it is first necessary to clarify the general principles of the major settlement issues resulting from the divorce, including, among other things, the following: the issues of the financial balance and the rights of EU citizens in Britain and vice versa. The reasons why the EU-27 wants to start with the general principles of the major settlement issues resulting from the divorce are as follows: firstly, Brexit will include a number of important and complex issues for both citizens and companies, which need to be clarified for reasons of legal certainty before any meaningful discussion on future matters can be made. Secondly, failure to clarify the financial balance of the settlement could lead to a considerable additional cost for the remaining EU countries, for example. Britain has undertaken a number of financial commitments as an EU member, which will run for a number of years. If the British side refuses to live up to them, it could result in a considerable extra bill for Denmark and thus for the Danes. Thirdly, clarification on the key issues of settlements could create a good negotiating climate so that negotiations can be extended relatively quickly to cover the future, including the architecture of a trade agreement. In the worst case scenario, at the end of the two-year period, there is no risk of agreement on anything, and in every way it will be both expensive and difficult. That is why the EU-27 attaches great importance to the organisation of the negotiations. This also applies to those countries which attach particular importance to continued very close cooperation with Britain in the future. Ideally, I hope that we can reach agreement relatively quickly on the general principles for dealing with the major settlement issues, and when that is in place, the negotiations can then be extended to cover the future relationship, and then the negotiations should be able to take place in parallel. During the spring we have been given more clarity about the British wishes with Prime Minister May's speech in January, the British Government's White Paper on the approach to the forthcoming negotiations and the actual notification, where Britain does not want to be part of the EU's common regulatory framework, will not be included in the European Court of Justice, does not want to be included in the free movement and will not make a general contribution to the EU's budget. At the same time, the British state that independent free trade agreements will be concluded with third countries. Against this background, the British have decided to leave the internal market. Instead, a comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU will be sought, coupled with agreements in areas such as internal and external security, foreign policy, security policy, research, technology, innovation, etc. However, more precise details remain as to how the British want to be closely associated with the European Union. An agreement on Britain's withdrawal and future cooperation with the EU must be based on the right balance between rights and obligations. On the Danish side, we have a clear focus on securing our interests, not least for the companies and their employees. We cannot have a situation where British companies have full and free access to the EU's internal market and Danish companies face unequal conditions of competition, technical barriers to trade, state aid, etc. in the UK market, so that unfair competitive advantages arise for UK companies compared to Danish companies. Such a development could undermine the internal market and relations with third countries, in which we do not have an interest. Instead, we will work to maintain a level playing field so that we can lay the foundations for economic growth both in Britain and in the European Union. The government's first priority in the forthcoming negotiations will be to promote Danish interests, not least for companies and citizens. The work of the government's Brexit task force has from day to day focused on both issues related to the settlement division and the forward-looking relationship. In relation to the settlement division, I would like to highlight two points in particular. The first is that there is a good and fair solution, so that Britain will bear the costs that have been incurred by the British side, otherwise it can be very expensive for Danish taxpayers. The second is that, within the framework of the EU's negotiations with Britain, we ensure clear and fair solutions from the large number of Danish citizens living in Britain, and vice versa. Although this is an issue on which perhaps political agreement can be reached quickly, it should not be underestimated how difficult it can be to ensure effective solutions for a very complex area that can work in practice, especially when Britain does not want to be subject to EU rules. In relation to the forward-looking relationship, Danish interests are also at stake, not least in relation to market access. The United Kingdom is one of our five largest export markets with a broad composition ranging from agricultural products to industrial products to services. Like other EU countries, Danish fishermen fish in British waters and a good solution will also have to be found. There are many Danish jobs at stake here. We therefore have a general interest in maintaining maximum access to the British market, but it will hardly be simple with the British decision to leave the internal market. As has already been said, we must be aware that an agreement does not lead to Danish companies experiencing unequal competition from UK competitors in the internal market in the future. It is therefore a clear Danish interest to ensure a balance between rights and obligations in an agreement on the future relationship. The EU-27 is ready to start negotiations, and the December Summit Declaration and the draft guidelines outline the overall framework for the EU's approach to the negotiations. The Commission will conduct the forthcoming negotiations on the part of the EU-27, with the ongoing involvement of the Member States, and the European Parliament will, as you know, have to approve the final agreement. As you know, an extraordinary summit has been convened on 29 April, when the Heads of State or Government of the EU-27 will adopt the guidelines. Against this background, the Commission will present a proposal for a more detailed negotiating mandate which will have to be approved by the Council. After that, negotiations with the United Kingdom will begin. We are pleased by the government that we will soon be able to get started. We have waited a long time for the notification by the United Kingdom and we should not help delay the negotiations. Clarity is needed and that our citizens and our businesses have something to look to and look forward to where there is clarity. Overall, the Danish negotiating position will be based on the desire for continued close and good cooperation with the UK and the EU, and from the Danish side we will work to ensure that the negotiations get under way by a relatively rapid clarification of the principles of the major settlement issues, such as: the financial balance and citizens' rights in order to create the best framework in which to negotiate the future relationship in parallel. During the negotiations, we from Denmark will focus on ensuring Danish interests for our citizens and companies. A future agreement with the United Kingdom must, of course, balance rights and obligations, among others. The integrity of the internal market and equal conditions of competition between Great Britain and the EU will be central. It is the government's view that this is the way to safeguard Danish interests, including the many jobs at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180228	Thank you, Minister. Now we have a explanatory statement and we have received an answer. So we move on to the negotiations. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180246	Thank you. I have to say that, with few exceptions, the speech made by the Foreign Minister might as well have been made by Michel Barnier. Of course, something was said about Denmark's interests, but that was probably basically what separated what the Foreign Minister said from the line the Commission has taken in this area. In fact, I think that what is characteristic of the whole way we relate to Brexit is that we have already divided ourselves into two sides. On the one hand it is the European Union and, on the other hand, it is Britain. Perhaps we should really sit down and then not consider each other as two sides, but consider ourselves as those who would like to have the common best possible result. The Foreign Minister was very concerned about this bill, which has to be paid. I can understand that too. But you just have to understand that it's not about a bill that's either going to be 0 kroner. or some amount. If Britain insists on responding to the commitments that are in force up to 2023, and that is what is the European Union's starting point, then, when we come to the back of 2023, the European citizens will be expecting a bill of some 352-528 billion. kr. as a result of the British resignation. It is not a small amount, as the Secretary of State indicated. And how to deal with that is a good question. It's not something you just find over a night at least. There is no doubt that we must, of course, have an agreement which is in Denmark's interest. This also means, of course, that there are some special conditions that we in Denmark need to be aware of. Fishing was mentioned. It is funny, as the government has suddenly become preoccupied with fishing conditions, but it can be used when it comes to this sort of thing. But it is also clear that we need to aim for an agreement that does not unilaterally favour one of the parties. I have to say that I do not think we have come as far from the penal code as I had hoped, given that the Prime Minister has visited Austria and Ireland in any case with a view to getting another agenda. I actually still miss that one. In fact, I personally have no doubt that, during that period from the British referendum until Christmas, instead of having embarked on this staring competition with the British, the European Union had sent out signals that it was prepared to discuss issues such as: In fact, the free movement of workers would perhaps have been possible even to retain the British within the internal market, as the Minister himself said today that the Minister had wished. There is no doubt that it is precisely the British's ability to decide for themselves the extent of immigration to Britain, which has been at the heart of the argument as to why Britain should withdraw from the European Union. After all, the conditions for the European Union are also evolving. Moreover, it is also often stated by the yes parties that the European Union must take decisions in areas on which the European Union has not previously taken decisions, because there has been an enlargement to include the Eastern European countries, which are therefore completely different from the existing Member States in terms of economic conditions, social systems and pay and working conditions. That is why it could have been said that, when the Eastern European countries are covered by rules on the free movement of workers, this will have an impact on the labour markets of Western European countries, especially since Western European countries, where there is no state-determined minimum wage. So perhaps the free movement of workers should have been rethought at that time. But now was the chance, as it were, to rethink those considerations in relation to Britain's desire to be able to control its own immigration. In the eyes of the Danish People's Party, the task must now be to make the most far-reaching free trade agreement ever with the British, and that means that all of these ideas of punishment should be abandoned, and that also means that these unnecessary provocations directed against the British must be stopped, such as this most curious registration of a Spanish right of veto in relation to Gibraltar. This also means that the debate on the British withdrawal bill will be parked a little and that negotiations on market access will be opened instead. It also means that Denmark has to resign from that French musketeered and instead bet on constructive cooperation with other countries that rely so much on their own competitiveness that they are willing to enter into an agreement with Britain with the benefit of both parties. In the Danish People's Party we also think it is in our interest to get a good agreement because we see that agreement as a model for what we could imagine ourselves in the future. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work for the best possible agreement between the UK and the EU with a content that ensures that the resignation negotiations are not regarded as a kind of criminal action. The Danish Parliament recognises that special Danish interests must be taken care of in the negotiations, but at the same time stresses that an agreement must be concluded for mutual benefit. Parliament calls on the government to work with determination on an agreement which means that the UK and the EU will continue to have free access to each other's markets as far as possible. Parliament also calls on the government to ensure that Britain and the EU countries each have the necessary autonomy within, among other things, the United Kingdom and the EU countries. The policy on foreigners underlines the historically close relationship between Great Britain and Denmark and stresses the importance of continued close cooperation with Great Britain. V 83).
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180849	Thank you. There are no brief comments in this instance, so we move on to the next rapporteur. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, someone just wanted to come. It's the next rapporteur in the line, but he gets to ask a question before he gets on the podium. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180907	It was because I remembered that it would be unfair to just comment on the rapporteur's speech in my own rapporteur's speech, in which the rapporteur was unable to respond. I just have one question. I think all the parties in the Danish Parliament are interested in getting one for both parties as well as possible, but would not the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party agree that much of the talk about a hard Brexit comes first and most of all from the leadership of the Conservative Party in Britain and not from all kinds of other places?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420180945	We can always discuss this and we can also discuss to a great extent what has led to that debate in Britain. My own impression is that the situation that has arisen now, with the letter of resignation and the content of the letter of resignation, has arisen as a consequence of the fact that the Commission, together with, among other things, France has led such a harsh and intransigent rhetoric in relation to Britain. I believe that if we had been more inclusive and more inclusive towards the United Kingdom and looked at some of the challenges facing Britain, it would have been actually possible to keep Britain within the single market. Now the President of the Commission himself has presented this proposal for a Europe in concentric circles. Could it be imagined that in the extremes of such concentric circles there could be a relationship with the European Union involving participation in the internal market, but without acceptance of the free movement of workers? I think it would be quite reasonable to have such an opportunity. But it seems to me that any question about what Britain has wanted to put has been rejected fairly cold from Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181109	I am not going to be wise about what has been neither accepted nor rejected from Brussels. I just note that for all the remaining 27 EU Member States and Great Britain it is in the common interest to have as good a solution as possible. And the solutions that have been put forward so far, such as a Norwegian model, have, of course, been rejected. That is why I suspect that much of the talk about hard Brexit is really about some power struggles and some balancing that takes place within the conservative party and that with the state guarantee, when and if sadly they stand even stronger after 8 June, will only get even worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181157	Indeed, there is no doubt that the British Prime Minister will use that election to strengthen his negotiating position vis-à-vis the EU, that is clear, and there is Jeremy Corbyn and his troops not very good. That may change, but that is the way it is, that is a proper observation on the part of the rapporteur. What is against is increased regulation and large-scale immigration from Eastern Europe, and if those issues could have been addressed in a way that pointed towards a solution for Britain, I am actually sure that a solution could then have been found for Britain. But it is that rigidity that exists within the EU system that prevents us from solving such problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181246	Sir. Jan Einer Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181250	I am delighted that the President has discovered my middle name. It was in a fit of fairness that my colleague in the Social Democratic Party has set in motion that I asked for the floor. I would like to ask the Danish People's Party, which one must now have suspected of considering a name change to the British People's Party, if one still has this kind of thing, we should call the petty utopian idea that if we now help Britain get a really good deal home, we can then copy that agreement and then just use search and replace where we saw every time it says "Great Britain," change it out and write "Denmark." Is it still the strategy of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181342	That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181348	Well, that sounds like one at best, we should call it dangerous strategy. Has the Danish People's Party thought in the end that if it ends up with the Danish people wanting to stay in the EU, then we have given the British an agreement that is better than it would otherwise have been, at the expense of Danish interests, and then Denmark must live with the results it produces? Is the thought thought completely over, if it doesn't work out, as sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth imagines himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181424	Now you have to be careful not to be too cauliflower-hawk. It usually goes very well for the Danish People's Party in the context of EU votes, but leave it at that. I therefore have no objection to making an agreement that is good for the British, even if it means that Denmark would be stuck in what the European Union is expressing. I now doubt it because one of the reasons why this is deeply problematic is that we are losing one of the largest net contributors to the EU system. There is a huge bill to be picked up and a very small will to pick up the bill. That's one of them. expressed by the negotiating position taken by the government in the wake of Barnier, which is that, even after the British have resigned from the European Union, they must keep on poking out. Even if you accept that, there will be an expiry date, and at some point you will have to find a solution which means that a bill of 523 billion will have to be paid. kr. or so picked up. So it's not a beer down at the local. It is a quite considerable bill that is left behind. And as I can see, no one really has any indication of the answer to who should pick up that bill when it comes at some point, and it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181538	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. No, we're gonna have another trip here, and it's first, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181552	I have to say that the attitude of the Danish People's Party here is really amazing because that is the case. In other words, it is quite true that the British People's Party or Russian People's Party might as well be called in other contexts. There are no limits to how non-national Danish People's Party can be when you so go in and defend the interests of other countries in different contexts. And the fact that, in this case, you go in and say that you would actually take care of British interests in order to promote some goals that the Danish People's Party has, I really think are reasonably cross-border to hear from a party here in the Danish Parliament; I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181640	Yes, sometimes you can also be in doubt whether Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is really Mr. Holger Vivike, but that's so much. I just have to say yes to the fact that we have the long glasses on here; well, we do. We want Britain to have an agreement that is as good as possible, and we do so for several reasons. We do so because, in the long term, we would like to have some kind of similar agreement for Denmark, but also on the basis that our companies in this country benefit greatly from continuing to have as free market access to Britain as possible. I would like to say that my concern is that the debate on the bill, i.e. how long Britain has to pay and what they have committed themselves to, is going to be such a stumbling block because no one has any solutions to how the bill is to be collected and that it is going to block progress in relation to the negotiations on Britain's relations forward. That is also why we are proposing to try to get the British to meet a little more in this area. After all, the crucial thing must be market access afterwards, even if Denmark risks being part of the European Union afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181803	I find it very interesting that such a theory of misery is being promoted here, where the worse Denmark gets, the worse an agreement this is going to be for Denmark, the better it is for the Danish People's Party. That is what is actually said. In order to promote the interests of the Danish People's Party, it would be desirable for Britain to have a cannon agreement at the expense of Denmark. I really think that's something you have to think about around the rooms too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181838	I just think that sir... Holger K. Nielsen, with all due respect, presents a scare scenario. In other words, the scenario we want from the Danish People's Party is a scenario which also benefits a Denmark that may be within the framework that the European Union has. It is a scenario in which Britain has virtually the same market access as it would if you were part of the internal market. Well, that's what we want, because we think that's what's good. Then there may well be a lot that stands and screams out on the sidelines that we cannot offer a country outside the European Union such good conditions; that we will have to like to draw a line in the sand and say that they have resigned, etc., but I simply cannot see how it can be for the benefit of Denmark if we fall back to the WTO conditions in relation to Great Britain, because we come to a situation where we cannot move forward, that is, because we cannot find answers to the question of a bill that we are going to have to pay for the remaining members of the European Union anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181940	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420181944	I do not think that the question I am going to ask is particularly difficult to answer, nor is it meant to be polemical, but it is perhaps in fact just to get very clear lines. 'Cause when sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth says that he is wearing the long glasses, so I would just like to hear: do the long glasses mean that we are going out of the European Union? Does this also mean a Europe without the European Union? Because if I put on the long glasses, of course I think it would be incredibly unfortunate if Denmark were to be outside the European Union. But what I am afraid of, and this is a fear that I share with so many others, is the situation that the Danish People's Party is seeking, namely such a series of resignations where Britain takes the lead, and then there is a lot that makes copy-paste of their resignation and attractive agreement, and hence an EU that breaks down. I would just like to hear: is what the Danish People's Party wants, not just a Denmark outside the European Union, but also a Europe without strong European cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182057	Look, the last thing I'm not master of. The Folketing is probably not master of this either, but we might get an indication of where it is going if it is the case that the election in the next round of the French presidential elections is between Marine Le Pen and Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Then perhaps there are some perspectives that are beginning to emerge. But we have never wanted that from the Danish People's Party. We have never wanted an unorthodox collapse of the European Union. In other words, what we would like to do in the best of all worlds was for the European Union to realise that there was a relatively high level of opposition to a project about the continuous transfer of power to Brussels and Strasbourg, and to realise that we have to have a policy that leaves more room for individual nation states, so that more decisions are taken in the nation states, and so that some of the decisions that are being taken today in the European Union are made to the nation states, as was also provided for in the Laeken Declaration, or as the Laeken Declaration provided for. That is what we want, but it is clear that if there is no sensitivity in the EU system to such requests, which are shared by a large number of European peoples, then one can end up where Mrs Zenia Stampe says that we can risk a European Union of gradual resignations that collapse like a house of cards. But this is not a wish scenario for us. Our wish scenario is that you pull yourself together in the European Union and understand that you have to have an orchestrated roll-back of power to the nation states.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182231	I would urge you to try to keep to your speaking time. It's a little late in the day, and it might be a good idea in any case. Mrs. Zenia Stampe for question number two.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182241	It's gonna be more of a comment. After all, it is perfectly legitimate to stand within the European Union and to fight to keep more with the nation states. That is a fair and legitimate position. Where I think it's gonna be a tiny bit uncomfortable, there's where mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth believes that because the whole of the EU does not conform to the Danish People's Party's position, the Danish People's Party has the same opportunity to exercise influence as my own party or other parties have and because the EU does not conform to the minority that wants the policy that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth wants us to gamble with the whole project. Is it really worth it that because Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth cannot be allowed to rule over the majority who want a different path from him, so are we now going into a potential series of resignations that can bring the whole project into play? Is this really a fair way to gamble with Danish interests and the future of the whole of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182344	Well, I am not in control of whether France decides to resign from the European Union. I'm really not. I may believe in myself, but that's where they're gonna stop. I just have to say that what is the problem is the continuous rejection of the path to be followed by the European Union, which is the subject of the European Union every time there are referenda on the European Union. You cannot even send a cooperation agreement with Ukraine to a referendum in the Netherlands without being swept off the table. It's just that I have to say that if it doesn't sort of make a bell ringing at, among other things. Mrs Zenia Stampe, it could end up where it collapses as a house of cards. But it's not my fault, and it's not anyone else's fault. It is the heavy hearing people of Brussels' fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182432	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, and welcome to the next rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182442	Thank you very much for the floor, President. On my own behalf, but also on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I must not hide the fact that we think it is both extremely sad and regrettable that the British have chosen to resign, not even in the long run, for Britain itself, for Danish interests in Britain, but also for the entire EU community. It is sad because a great many of the very great challenges we face at pan-European level in these years, regardless of whether it is security policy, whether it is climate policy, whether it is in relation to the refugee crisis, or whether it is all sorts of other things we can best solve, including with Great Britain, in strong, binding cooperation within the European Union. I think it is sad because I am solidising very much with many of the British employees who, for a decade or even longer, have only experienced a downward pressure on their wages, on their working conditions, and that in the then and also the present Conservative Government, gaps have been struck in the British welfare community and slowly let it bleed to death. I think it is even more sad because the decision to leave the European Union, although it is due to many different factors, such as: has happened against the backdrop of one of the greatest misdirections seen in modern political history. The fact that, on the one hand, the British social rights have been cut deeply, in the British welfare community, and, on the other hand, at the same time they have gone into major campaigns and promised to use what is being saved in the EU's membership fee to restore the very same health care that is being killed, I think is deeply, deeply and deeply shameful. I know that there is no tradition here of speaking uglylylyly of politicians in other countries, but I want to make an exception. I believe that the whole confluence of Eton-educated upper-class conservatives who conducted that campaign, whether they are Boris Johnson or Michael Gove, or whatever they are called, has not only done Britain a huge disservice as a society, but they have also done a great deal, very much damage to ordinary British employees • many of those who need exactly to be part of a strong and binding community. All this makes me very, very sad. But having said that, I would say that the figures speak for themselves in relation to Danish interests. So, Denmark is the 14th largest country, which in itself is impressive with direct investment in Great Britain. This means that a great many Danish companies have very direct interests in Britain. 40% of all our earnings in the fishing industry just as another example comes from fishing in the waters that also surround Britain. Britain is Denmark's fifth largest export market. So, of course, we must create a strategy that serves Danish interests. And there are many things in which I disagree with the Foreign Minister and his party, but I think that he was actually talking about some of the many balances and considerations that are important in the forthcoming negotiations. That is why I also have to read out a proposal for adoption made on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Alternative, Radicals and the SF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a majority of voters in Britain regrettably want to leave the European Union. Parliament would have preferred Britain to remain part of the European Union and notes that it is now necessary to try to get the best possible result out of the forthcoming negotiations, with the aim of continuing close and good cooperation between Britain and the European Union. In the negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the EU, the Danish Parliament considers that the government's negotiating position should be based on both EU and national Danish interests, including for citizens and companies. In relation to the negotiation sequence, the Folketing considers that a preliminary clarification of the general principles of the major settlement issues such as financial relations and citizens' rights will provide the best framework for extending the negotiations to include the future agreement. Finally, Parliament considers that a future agreement with Britain must balance rights and obligations, including in relation to access to the internal market. • V 84). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182906	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420182911	I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur would have liked Britain to have remained in the European Union. Earlier today, we had a conciliation procedure with the rapporteur on the Western Balkans, and there were some interesting points made by the rapporteur. I wrote some of them down. The rapporteur said that there was a need for a more balanced interpretation of the free movement of workers, and the rapporteur also said at one point that there was a need for a new form of membership in which the free movement of workers was not included. I am aware that these things were aimed at the accession of the countries of the Western Balkans, but why, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, can we not offer the British a membership of the European Union where the free movement of workers is not included, if the rapporteur believes that it is possible to offer the countries of the Western Balkans a membership where the free movement of workers is not included?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183009	Well, the consultation today was precisely about admitting completely new members, especially from countries, you just have to be honest and see with some other prerequisites than we ourselves have. It is, of course, a very sober assessment, as was the case with the accession of the new Eastern European countries. And what was the balance earlier today, when we had the consultation, was to say: if we want to keep a number of countries close to us, can we find new models? I agree with all those who believe that there are several different people sitting in the Chamber that there is no proper balance between, on the one hand, the free movement of workers and, on the other hand, respect for basic employees' rights, wages and working conditions. We are very, very concerned about that, and I am very concerned about that. And I think it's gonna have to be found in a completely different way. I think it should be found by putting the internal market principles on an equal footing with respect for the same rights. I believe that this is basically the way to solve it, so that we have a dynamic labour market, but where it does not help to undercut wages and working conditions and employees' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183117	Yes, but I don't understand that sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is so quick to get a number of countries in the Western Balkans such as Albania, Macedonia and Kosovo into the European Union under conditions where the free movement of workers does not apply. But Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen does not have the same interest in preserving Britain within the framework of the European Union, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen certainly could, if Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen was prepared to offer the British membership under the same conditions as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen believes that the countries of the Western Balkans should be offered. It's paradoxical, isn't it? Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen seems to be more concerned with the Western Balkans than with maintaining Britain in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183206	Now I would like to say that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth really makes bill without host, for I do not recall having proposed some finished model. We had a consultation where we discussed some different issues, so excuse me for bringing up some different themes. I do not think we are far enough to have at all some finished model to offer the countries of the Western Balkans. However, as I mentioned earlier in my question to the rapporteur when he was in the Chair, it is my analysis that, in this way, it is the British, even with the conservatively led government, who, because of all possible internal considerations within the Conservative Party, has chosen that negotiating strategy. You could have just tried to apply for an arrangement, such as Norway. It would then go a long way along the way to meet exactly what Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks we should offer. It would have been easy to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183256	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are now no more brief comments. So we welcome Mr. Jan Ejnar Jørgensen on the platform. He's from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183319	That is true: Denmark's oldest and largest liberal party, although fortunately not the only one. And I would like to thank the Minister for the other liberal party, or the Radical Left is still a sort of liberal party, isn't it? And, of course, I understand that the more precise negotiating positions are probably in the best position to discuss behind closed doors. I do not think anyone is surprised when I say that we in the Left are sorry that Britain chose to resign from the European Union. I have spoken earlier about the British's lamentable Brexit, and it is, I think, so good a rhyme of letters that it tolerates repetition. But it is no use just sitting in a corner and crying and not understanding that Britain, our good friends, has decided to leave the European Union. We're going to work. We must ensure that we get the best possible result out of it, although it is a sad result for Europe, for Denmark and for Britain itself too. It's gonna be what you might call a lose-lose situation. The British are losing on it, the 27 EU countries are losing on it, and the question now is how to limit the loss as much as possible. But, of course, we respect the people of Britain's decision to leave the European Union. And it is also the case that when you have a marriage and one party wants to leave the marriage, all of it is not the one's fault and nothing the other's fault, and Brexit, of course, has also done the European Union's self-examination process, and that is a good thing. But, on the other hand, when you have a divorce, which is a matter of course, it is a matter of ensuring that the divorce is as decent as possible, if only for the sake of the children. So I would also like to take this opportunity today to congratulate both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister on the diligence shown in preparing for Brexit itself. We set in motion a Danish task force that was set up immediately after the Brexit vote in June 2016 and has thus clarified where there are interests that may conflict with each other. When Britain leaves the EU, we should not just say goodbye to a close political ally. We must also say goodbye to an important Danish trading partner. As others have also mentioned, Britain is thus Denmark's fourth largest export market. We are talking about 2,400 Danish companies exporting to Britain, and about 53,000 Danish jobs depend on that export. So there are, in other words, a great many Danish interests at stake in the forthcoming negotiations, and there is the Left's first priority, that is, to safeguard Danish interests. Then it is our second priority to safeguard the interests of the European Union and, in the third place, to safeguard Britain's interests. But, of course, in the future we want to have as good cooperation as possible with Britain as possible, and the talk that has been going on about criminal action, etc. I do not think it makes any sense at all, for who would have an interest in it? We all have an interest in achieving the best possible result for the community. But, of course, we should not enter into negotiations with Britain in such a blue-eyed and naive way either. We must ensure future cooperation with Britain, which has the right balance between rights and obligations. I agree with the Minister that the issue of Britain's connection with the internal market will therefore be particularly important for Denmark. And there it is that you can't get all the sweet stuff without taking the pissed off as well. I mean, if every fourth bus that drove by out here was free and you had to pay to ride with the other three, then I guess there wasn't that many riders on the three buses where it cost money. Then the passengers would clump together in the fourth. So, of course, Britain must recognise that, for example, if they are to have access to the internal market for goods, it also requires them to meet the standards that exist in the European Union, as is also the case with the trade agreements we make with others, such as Canada. So, with these words, I would like to thank the Minister for his thorough statement, and then I look forward to continuing the discussions in the Committee on European Affairs and to receiving the updates that come from the negotiation process in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183819	There will also be a little discussion here, for Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth wanted a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183824	Thank you. It's for the marriage thing. Now it is the case that, if you are to get out of a marriage, there is, unless there are very special circumstances, a separation period, and that separation period should be used to come to its senses. You can either get back together under new circumstances or you can find a proper solution for the future. That's where I'll just have to ask Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen: How does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen that these meetings, which the Prime Minister has held with the Austrian Chancellor and the Irish Prime Minister, are reflected in the starting point with which the government is going to negotiate the British withdrawal? How has this made an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420183925	Well, getting back together would be nice. That would be amazing. One might wonder why the British have not tried a Danish model, one might say. What, then, is the problem in Britain? What is it that Britain does not want to be a part of? And then you could try to get some reservations about what we got when we had a vote at home, where it also became a no. That would be amazing. But that is not what the British want. The British have repeatedly stressed that what they want is a hard Brexit, that is to say to Brexit means Brexit, as has been said time and time again. They want out, and they want out. Nor is it a question of having a solution for Norway, which has a connection with the European Union. They don't want that either. For example, they do not want to be part of the internal market at all, at least not in the case of the labour force. So I share the wish of the Danish People's Party that this separation period, which we could call it, as Article 50 sets in motion, is used in two years to get back together, but I do not think it is so realistic, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184037	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left, because there are no more brief remarks. Excuse me, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth gets a second question; that is clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184051	Thank you, sir. President. If we had not had the cold washing that was given to us by the Commission, France and other countries, then we might have chosen a different starting point. I can't say. But in any case, this period must be used constructively, and it was my business to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen on how it has influenced the Danish negotiating position to hold these meetings with Austria and Ireland. After all, we must start from the point of view that the Prime Minister is not touring Europe completely restless and without objectives or objectives. There must have been some point in holding these meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184132	Now I think we should be careful with these marriage metaphors, and now we're also talking about cold washings. This could very quickly be a very merry debate, so I think we should stop doing so. With regard to the questions which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth asks, it is probably more correct to address them to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184154	I'll take another look. It seems that we should thank the rapporteur of the Left now in earnest. Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184205	Thank you. There is no doubt that the decision of the British people to leave the EU gives cause for great debate in Europe and, of course, here in the Folketing. It is also a discussion which we have in the Parliament's Committee on Europe and which we have tomorrow, for example, the Danish strategy on what to do. I think it is quite clear that some of the voices that come from parts of the EU apparatus, which are like saying that now the British must be severely punished for having voted out of the EU, are some statements that are in no way in Danish interest or for that matter in the interest of the whole Kingdom community. We have a clear interest in cooperating and being able to trade and travel to Britain. And I think it is important that, in the negotiations with Britain, Danish efforts are made to ensure that we can continue both to trade and to travel to Britain. In the same way, I think it is important to call on the government to ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands' interests are also safeguarded in these negotiations that we are facing. It can be said that the decision taken by the British raises fundamental questions about the organization of cooperation in Europe so far. There has been a period of progress in Europe towards more or less all countries moving towards full membership of the European Union. It is different today, and I think it is important that we are open to new forms of cooperation in Europe in the wake of Brexit. I think that might be quite interesting. I am very much in favour of international cooperation, European cooperation, which is what we are doing in the Enhedslisten, which is why it is also very important for some countries to decide to be outside the EU, whether Norway did it several years ago and in several instances, Iceland or, for that matter, England, to ensure that we can cooperate with them. I think that these are quite interesting thoughts that we are hearing these days, even from Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission, who has been out saying that we need to have European cooperation in several circles. One of those circles must be a circle in which Great Britain is also part of. This is quite interesting because I think it is important that there is room for more cooperation, as the countries themselves wish, and that it is possible for the peoples of the European countries to choose a looser link with the European Union. It can be said that the Danish people have already done so with our various reservations. Now we have to see who wins the upcoming election in England. I hope the Conservatives get a real kick in the nuts. Unfortunately, there is not much to suggest that, but let us see now. At least I cross my fingers for Jeremy Corbyn. He can thus be at the head of the negotiations, and that can be quite interesting. For what I think many Danes are experiencing as a huge problem in the European Union is the attack on professional rights and the security of the labour market, which is causing huge problems with social dumping. This is not a problem which I think the Conservative British Government will solve, but it is something which could be quite interesting for Corbyn and the left in England to resolve. The English people now have an opportunity to choose a different direction for their country. Hopefully they'll do it and choose Corbyn. There is no doubt that there are a number of Danes who are in a jam. It is Danes who live in England, just as there are English who live in Denmark, who fear for the future. This is something we need to resolve. It is clear that if the government can resolve this in EU negotiations quite quickly, so that people can have security and security for their future, it will be very good. We have clearly called on the Enhedslisten to ensure that, if a solution is not quickly found by the European Union, Denmark can start bilateral negotiations with the European Union to find a solution for the Danish citizens who live in England and to find a solution for the English citizens who live in Denmark. It is very important that we take account of the people whom this is likely to suffer. We look very much forward to the negotiations that need to be held. We hope that the government will listen to all the parties of the Folketing and also include the concerns and demands we have from Enhedslisten. Basically, this allows for a new form of cooperation in Europe and, I hope, also cooperation which takes into account the problems of ordinary workers today, where freedom of movement creates pressure on wages and working conditions and triggers social dumping in the way it is organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184717	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420184735	Thank you. Unfortunately, the British people chose for approx. Ten months ago, Britain voted out of the EU. I and the Liberal Alliance hoped that they would decide to stay in cooperation, but of course recognise that this is a legitimate democratic decision made by an independent nation. The United Kingdom has submitted its official resignation and made it clear that they want to withdraw completely from the internal market. So here we are. The settlement after Britain's membership of the European Union must be made up both in money and in rights, and when the framework is in place, we must look forward and find a sensible model for future cooperation between Britain and the European Union. The bill must be made up, the values and debts shared fairly, and the conditions for citizens crossing the nationality and residence across the border between the European Union and Great Britain must be clarified. I do not believe that Britain should be punished for its choice. Punishment is something that criminals are sentenced to, and even though I believe that some of the brexit advocates drew a rather plentiful picture of Britain's many possibilities outside cooperation, it is hardly a crime, at least not in the criminal sense. On the other hand, we must not adopt a naive idea that we do not have to insist on defending Danish interests in the forthcoming negotiations, for if we do not do so, who will do so? On the Danish side, we must take up our main interests and, in cooperation with the other 27 EU countries, make them felt in the negotiations that lie ahead. I am cautiously optimistic, because in the Liberal Alliance we are very much in favour of free trade, and free trade in particular has a great mutual interest in maintaining both sides of the negotiating table. If it then does not become as open as it is in the internal market, we must work on as strong a plan B as possible. It is essential for us in Denmark to ensure market access to the UK market for our companies. The government is holding a series of other Danish interests in the negotiations, which must be conducted by the 27 remaining EU countries together, not to form a united wall of opposition to Britain, but because we are united in trade, defending the same rules and the same market access. On a more general level, it is also important that the remaining 27 countries stand together, together to defend Europe's security, to fight terrorism, to liberalise an increasingly technology-driven market, together to open up more free trade in the world and to break down protectionism, and, yes, now to negotiate with Britain for cooperation in a new framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185035	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185041	Thank you. See, Mrs Christina Egelund, the fact that we are united is an illusion, and I think the Foreign Minister's speech was a very good illustration of this, because the main thing for the Foreign Minister is to look after Danish interests. Thus, the vast majority, probably all the other countries, also have their little Hassans, to be nurtured. So the thing about standing together is an illusion. That is also why I would really like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund, who is in favour of free trade, whether Mrs Christina Egelund really believes that a future free trade agreement should be blocked by the issue of whether Britain should pay each and every one of its financial obligations up to 2023, even after Britain has left the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185147	With all due respect, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mixes up two things that, as such, have nothing and should have nothing to do with each other. The point is, and I think that is just an expression of taking things at the right pace, that before you start talking about the future, it is very good to have clarified the past. That is, of course, what lies in the fact that, before we clarify the framework for future cooperation and the framework for future trade with Great Britain, we have clarified the debt and the commitments we have to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185224	I have such a view of the Liberal Alliance as being in fact somewhat a peddler's party and it should not be perceived adversely as at least well know who should have what money when. Would Mrs Christina Egelund think it fair that if Mrs Christina Egelund were a member of a gym on a subscription scheme, then should continue to pay for the next 4-5 years if Mrs Christina Egelund resigned from the gym? Would it be in the spirit of the Liberal Alliance that you should?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185301	Now I do not think it is very gentlemanly that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth puts it as a premise that I am not a member of the gym, but leave it alone. It is clear, then, that I think that if you are a credible and proper partner, who enters into agreements in which there are commitments, you will of course stand by those commitments. The alternative is so specific in this case that there are others who have to pay that bill, and it has to be entirely on the Danish People's Party's own account if they think that it is Danish citizens who have to pay the bill on which Britain has charged themselves. I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185336	Thank you to Mrs Egelund. And we welcome Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185343	Well, what are we discussing today? That is our negotiating position in relation to Brexit. You can start that discussion from all sorts of places. I think that we should look first and foremost at what we really need to find out. It is, of course, first of all, that there are some bills that need to be paid. After all, there are obligations when you have been part of a community. Some people have been working. Then there's something called pension to be paid. There are some other things that need to be paid, and of course you have to find out before moving on to finding out how we are going to work together in the future too. But what is worth looking at is what Britain really wants. They want to leave the EU. They do not want all sorts of other arrangements that the questioner was fantasizing about before, no, they will actually just leave the European Union, and then we will have to find a good solution for the European Union, for Denmark and for Britain. It has been very clear from the British Prime Minister that it really was a serious Brexit, it was not a soft, it was a real hard, it was a really hard break with the European Union. That's what you wanted. Well, then, of course, you have to have it. If you want to break completely, well then we have to find a way to do it, and that means that we need to take some steps before we get to how we work together in the future, because first they want to get out. That's what they've chosen. Having said that, I think it is right and proper that we also think forward once we have found a solution to how they can get out of this close cooperation. And that is the first thing to look at, as many people have talked about, trade, trade and trade, but then there is another part, and that is why I hope we will have a green Brexit, because we can therefore thank the European Union for a great many things, among others. Britain has followed the green agenda. When I talk to green politicians in Britain, I find that they are really, really concerned about what should happen when they come out of the European Union with regard to both the environmental and climate agendas. So I hope that, in these negotiations on future cooperation, there will also be some commitments to our planet, our environment and to the climate action that needs to be done, that we will not be looking too blindly at the fact that this is just about trade cooperation, but also that we do have some common interests on the planet on which we live. I hope that will be a key issue in these negotiations. This is something that I think Denmark could at least also play on the table when we get to it. But there is, after all, a withdrawal that must be negotiated before we can talk about future cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185632	Thank you. Before mr. Rasmus Nordqvist leaves the platform, I can offer one brief remark from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185642	Yes, not only will it be offered, but it will also be answered in some form. But the reason I just want to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist on something, of course, is that I have experienced Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as one who was not so afraid to give money to the EU. We had a European Committee meeting before Christmas, where we discussed the EU's future budgets and where Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist was the only one of all the parties in the Danish Parliament who was represented, who was prepared to cut more in the gay, that is to say to give the European Union some more money, and that is why I find it rather strange that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is also frightened by the view of that bill. The thing is, that bill, among other things. comes because the EU believes that Britain should continue to pay for Structural Fund programmes, infrastructure programmes and other things on the other side of a withdrawal. I feel a little the same as with that gym, so it's kind of weird to keep paying for it. In any case, there is a bill waiting. That's 525 billion. kr., it is a blow to the bag, and of course it is not only Denmark that has to pay. But is it a bill that the alternative is prepared to pick up, and is the alternative prepared to say that as far as that money is concerned, Denmark should also spit in the box?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185758	I'd really like to split this into two parts. 'Cause now Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth himself with the EU budget, and it is not about giving the EU more money. We had some tasks to do together, and they cost some money. We are clearly in favour of this when the Commission says that we should all play a part in carrying out a task such as migration and refugees and in relation to close-up efforts. It costs money, and then we have to distribute what it costs between us. The second part is about the bill that is in relation to this settlement or divorce, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's talking about. There is, of course, a bill that needs to be paid, and that is where we of course think there should be negotiations with the United Kingdom on what part of the bill they have to pay. Firstly, there are the very low-practical parts of the bill that have to be paid, and secondly, some of the long-term investments have been made jointly while Britain was a full and full member, and there I think it should be clearly negotiated that they should continue to have some commitments to pay for that. That's what happens when you've been involved in making some decisions. I can conclude by saying that, of a great many laps, I have paid a lot of money to gyms without going down there, that is, completely voluntarily just paid and paid, and it was even once 2 years in a row. So it may be that it can inspire Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420185916	In fact, now I wasn't aiming so much at the period up to 2023, I was actually aiming at the period afterwards. I feel, at any rate, that many parties here have forgotten that Britain, whatever is out of the European Union at some point, and that, after a phase-in period, they cannot actually be forced to pay any more, that is, for something that they do not share in, and that is after 2023, in the region of 500 billion. kr. After all, it is also a sloppy money, and that is why I asked whether the starting point of the alternative is that Denmark should also spit in the box and pay its part of it, or is the starting point of the alternative that we are going to cut in relation to what the EU is dealing with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190008	After all, there is a lot of ifs in this, firstly because budgets look different when there is a big country like Britain leaving the EU, and then there are both revenue and expenditure that disappears. Secondly, we need to figure out what it looks like afterwards, and here there is also the thing about what kind of attachment there is. Again, as I said, we will have to negotiate what Britain wants. We know that it costs Norway money to have the connection they have, and it is the same with Britain. There's nothing that's just free. If you want benefits, something must also be paid at some point, and that is what has to be negotiated. We cannot sit here and pretend that after 2023 we have to pay one, the other or the third, because we do not know the budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190047	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190057	Thank you. I think it is a very difficult balance. In any case, there is no doubt that this is a balancing exercise that we are in. Because there are more legitimate interests, and some may even be contradictory. It is clear, of course, that Denmark's interests must weigh most heavily, i.e. the consideration of Danish companies or Danish professions, such as Denmark. The fisheries sector, which is somewhat nervous at the moment. It is also about the bill, which has been mentioned from up here, that the consequence of one, one might say, unsolved settlement, can be a lot of billions, not least for Denmark, which is one of the net contributors to the EU budget, and that is why I think the government has done a very good job of joining with others who are in a similar situation and therefore can see with particular concern on this bill from Britain's withdrawal, if the UK is not prepared to pay it itself. Then, of course, there is the interest of the European Union, or perhaps I should not call it interest, but consideration for the future of the European Union, and it has certainly filled a great deal for me, and I think it is too many, and perhaps that is what the Danish People's Party misunderstands or deliberately interprets as a thought of punishing Britain. That's not what this is about. However, it is about me, and I think many others too, being afraid to be in a situation where Britain gets such an attractive agreement that other countries will find it attractive to go the same way, and we just have to see that if enough countries want to go that way, then there is no European Union in the end. It is of course convenient to freeride on such a large organisation and take everything you like and then stand outside the commitments, but if everyone does, or many do, then there is just no European Union anymore, and that is also why I asked Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. After all, it was to know whether this is the path one wants, or whether it is at least a development that one wants to gamble with, that is to say, in a situation where there is no strong European Union. Then there is another perspective which can draw a little in the other direction, and that is of course the concern of the British, and I think that my perspective is different from that of Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kenneth Kristensen Berths. For here I think it is mostly the consideration of the Britons who wanted to get out of the European Union or wanted to have a completely different European Union. We should not forget that almost as many people were on the other side and wanted to remain part of the European Union and perhaps want to return to the European Union. For us, it is a little important that this tough Brexit still opens the door to the Britons who are working for them to come back in Europe and back in the European Union, and that is why we are not interested in criminal action either. Because we have no interest whatsoever in pushing these people away from us. On the contrary, we have an interest in showing them that the door is open to them and that if, at some point, they convince a majority in Britain that their future looks brighter in the European Union, they are welcome back. That is why it is the three considerations that we think should be balanced: Denmark's interests, the prospects for a European Union that does not collapse and the consideration for Britain's ability to return to the European Community, and I must say that I am pleased with the government's approach. I am very confident that this is also the line they intend to pursue in the negotiations, and I also feel safe from the presentation we have heard from the Foreign Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190449	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190453	I have such a good remembering rule, which is that if the Radical Left is comforted by something or is happy about something, there is always reason to pay extra attention, because then there is probably something wrong. Unfortunately, I think I feel the same way here. I mean, you can choose the whip or the carrot, but in my view it actually seems a little like Mrs Zenia Stampe has reasoned that the carrot does not really work, so you just have to whip the remaining Member States to stay in this cooperation, which Mrs Zenia Stampe would like them to be inside, by making the alternative uninteresting; then I have said it nicely. I do not think that is quite the case, I do not think that is the solution to getting more support for the European Union, but Mrs Zenia Stampe basically has to do so. But the fact is, it's 22 percent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the British people today who wish to reverse the decision taken by the British. Of course, it's a lame one, but it's not that many.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190610	I'm always dreaming a little bit. Kenneth Kristensen Berth speaks. Recently I received an email from a viewer who said that I always had such a dreaming look as if I wanted to go somewhere else entirely. Maybe that's because the questions always come from there. But I don't feel the same way about Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, as he might feel about me. I always listen interested, and I would love the day when we agreed, and that has happened. However, the point of saying that we are going to whip Members to stay inside the European Union is a rather remarkable statement, I think. So, do we not agree that a country is only in the European Union if it wants to, and that if there is a very large, massive majority of people who want to leave the European Union, then can you do so? I was not really surprised, because that is what the Danish People's Party always does, namely, trying to present itself as a representative of the people but if all the people or a majority of the people were there where Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is, so there was no EU. That's why I'm not whipping anybody. On the contrary, I think it may be Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who believes that the EU should be whipped until we are right and right, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth believes. Having said that, I think there is every reason to look at the European Union and reform it, and I think that very good steps have been taken towards that. However, to present oneself as a representative of the majority of the European people who want a completely different European Union is, after all, a false premise. Because if the majority thought, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth does, we did not have a European Union, or at least we had a completely different European Union. We do not have that, and this may, after all, be a sign that the Danish People's Party, although a major party in the Radical Left, is perhaps less in line with the European population than I am, than a majority of the Danish parties are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190813	Look, there is a country in the European Union that has had the opportunity to vote out of the European Union, and they have done so. There has been a series of referendums on the Treaty of Lisbon in the Netherlands, in France, which ended up with the people saying no. There have been votes in Ireland on various treaties, and they have often said no to start with, and then they have got some agreement and then they have said yes. The same is true in Denmark, where we have also had several votes which, after a 'no' vote, have gradually ended up with a 'yes' vote. In fact, I am of the opinion, Mrs Zenia Stampe, that if you asked the question that I would like to put to the citizens, we did not actually have a European Union, and that is basically not what I want. I would like to have some form of cooperation, but we can end up in a situation where we have no cooperation, because we have too many tone-deaf politicians like Mrs Zenia Stampe, who will not listen, but continue to live in a fantasy world that is about being right somewhere, and that the Danish People's Party and those who continue to vote against something that has to do with the European Union may not represent so many.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420190923	But it is not true that the people of Europe have not dealt with this issue, because they do, of course, every one they go to the ballot boxes and elect representatives to their national assemblies. It was also because of one, one might say domestic political opinion and debate, that Britain ended up where Britain did. However, if it were the case that in the European countries there was a really strong opposition to the European Union, a very strong opinion against the European Union, then it would also get through in parliamentary elections. It is true that there are opponents of the European Union, including large EU-sceptic parties, but we have not seen elections where the people have said: we have now become so alienated from this European Union that we give power to those who want to leave the European Union. It is actually a little remarkable that it has not happened if it is such a strong wish of the peoples of Europe. But it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191025	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it is Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party who has the chance to give a rapporteur's speech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191042	Well, there aren't many people to talk to in this Chamber at this time, but I'll try anyway, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is still sitting there. Thank you. But the debate is actually a little meaningless - I do not know, but it is a difficult situation, because we do not know so much about what the negotiations are actually going to be about. We have also had the additional problem that Theresa May issued elections in Britain the other day, which means that there will be no negotiations until after the British elections in June, and realistically, it is a little bit like the real negotiations that they may get started in July, but that you will get to the autumn before it gets really started, I think at least. And it is fine that some ideas from the government are presented here today and tomorrow at a meeting of the European Committee. But it is very general and must of course be very general, that is to say to assess Danish interests, and such an attempt to frame how the negotiations should take place, what to start with, and how to proceed. But there are a lot of details and a lot of interests to be taken care of, there are many things. We need to find out which countries we should ally ourselves with and in what contexts, and this has been started in the government, but we do not yet know how it will actually shape itself in the negotiations that are going to take place. So that is to say, it is a crazy difficult process that goes on, where you cannot make a cookbook, a script in advance, for that. That goes without saying. And that is why the process here in the Folketing is quite important, rather than what we are adopting today and we are adopting tomorrow, and that means that it is very, very important that there should be close contact between the government and the Folketing in this area, and that we continue to follow the negotiations closely in the Folketing. I think it is very positive that the Brexit successor group has been given that there is activity around it, that Michel Barnier is coming to a meeting tomorrow in the European Committee, that there has been a home meeting this afternoon and so on. I think that is important for us to continue with it. So, on the political front, I would like to say that, like everyone else, we regret the fact that Britain went out, so we have to start from that. We have to take as a starting point the fact that it was actually chosen to suggest that Britain would have a hard Brexit; it has May in relation to a conservative party that has pressed for it, also committed itself to • and that in this context, of course, we must take care of Danish interests, European interests. Of course, we cannot start from the fact that now everything must be done quietly and peacefully. I think it will be difficult negotiations, including confrontations, because there are conflicts of interest, and this has nothing to do with punishing Britain, for example. In the fisheries sector, there are completely cash conflicts of interest between Denmark and Great Britain, which matter to Danish fishermen. This also applies to a number of other areas where there are some contradictions that we must recognise there, and we must then take that away and start from it. That is why I have a lot of confidence in the government that is sitting there now. I do not expect it to be there at the end of the negotiations, I do not think it will be, but I am confident that any government in office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will then be able to negotiate this properly. So that's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191453	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. There are no brief comments this time. Since I do not see any Conservative rapporteur present in this Chamber, I would like to give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191508	It is really just too short to thank you for a good debate. We are early in the process and, of course, I look forward to the cooperation with the Danish Parliament and the ongoing involvement of the Danish Parliament in the coming period, just as we started out with. It is certain and certain that this is a very complicated affair that we are going to have to deal with, no one is in doubt about that and that divorce is rarely non-conflictable, nor should there be any doubt about that. It is also the intention of the government to be helpful to the British, because why should we not ensure that they fulfil their desire to implement their Brexit? Of course they do. However, our first priority in the forthcoming negotiations must, and must, of course, be to safeguard Danish interests, not least for companies and citizens, and it is with this perspective in mind that we are embarking on the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191615	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191620	I note that the Minister says that we in Denmark will be helpful to the British. I'm glad if it's true. But I would really like to know more precisely where this helpfulness and the meetings that the Prime Minister has had with Austria and Ireland are reflected in the negotiating position of the government. Because, as I also said in my comments on the Minister's speech, I found it extremely difficult to separate the reports I hear from Michel Barnier from what the Foreign Minister is saying here. So, as far as I am concerned, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs came up with seems to me to be the sort of thing that is clinched up at the Commission's starting point, so I am very keen to see where it is that this helpfulness and these meetings that the Prime Minister has had are practical.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191736	Well, I guess that's an expression of what it's called... the will to listen... that I, for example... We have had a personal meeting with the English Minister for European Affairs, David Davies, and that is so that he can listen to the Danish views and I can listen to his views, and then we have the knowledge to proceed with. We have no interest in preventing the U.K. from implementing their Brexit. Of course, they must have an opportunity to get through with that. They will get through that too, but it is also safe and certain and important to stress that what we are also talking about here on the bottom line is Danish jobs. It cannot be right for us to become so crazy in Denmark that we just tell the British that they just have to have free access to the internal market and then we have to face customs walls and technical trade changes and everything else when we look the other way. In other words, it is at least some kind of helpfulness that I am not interested in participating in, and I am pleased to note that there is a broad majority in the Folketing who agree that it is not helpful for Danish workers and Danish citizens to have that approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191855	Well, there are few things that I can guarantee will not happen, and one of them is that the European Union will unilaterally allow customs walls facing the European Union on the part of Britain without the European Union making a similar regime. However, what I really want to ask is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not agree with me that, regardless of how you turn and how you turn it, regardless of whether you maintain that Britain has to deal with all its commitments up to 2023, this will inevitably result in an amnesty of up to 530 billion. kr., when we get on the other side of 2023. How does the Foreign Minister imagine that within the European Union we should be able to pay out those 530 billion? kr.? I'm not sure that there are so many people who are so concerned about paying, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420191955	The starting point for the government is that we must, of course, have an adapted budget for the European Union when we come on the other side and the British are no longer part of European cooperation, but so far it has been and will, with what we are entering into now, be a fight to defend Danish interests and Danish citizens against an extra bill of up to 10 billion. kr. a year. That's a lot of money. You can hire a lot of helpers for that. With it you can do very well out in day care institutions, out in schools etc. It simply cannot be right that we should not fight from morning to night to make that bill as reasonable as possible, as small as possible. If we do not do this, we will not do our job properly, and the Danish Government and I ourselves intend to contribute to doing so and fortunately in good cooperation with a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420192044	Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna see if mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth wants a final comment. He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420192100	It will be very short, as there are not so many left in the Chamber. I'd like to know what it would have looked like if we'd been standing here at 8:00. 22.30, where, according to the charts I have received, the debate should have started. But that's the way it is. I would also like to thank you for an excellent debate today. I would like to say, and I have already said this on a number of occasions, and I am going to make the point today that I do not know whether the Conservative People's Party has completely abandoned having an EU rapporteur, but now, in the last few weeks, we have had three debates which have been about the European Union and in which the Conservative People's Party has not been represented by a rapporteur, and I am surprised, in the light of the otherwise quite clear markings on EU policy, which come from the Conservative rapporteur, but never comes in this Chamber. That's it. Of course, the rest of you should be thanked for taking the time to take part in this very important debate, which is of course essential, because regardless of how you turn it, it is crucial that Britain is maintained in close cooperation with the remaining countries of the European Union, and for several reasons. First of all, it is really for the sake of Danish companies, of course also in relation to the question of whether it may be relevant at some point to ask the people about the Danes' association with the European Union, but also in relation to the issue that we have had to turn around many times today, namely the question of this bill that is coming, and I just think it is important to emphasise that the bill is waiting for the bill to come. The only thing that can be done is to postpone the bill, because at some point, when Britain falls out of the system, then there is a very, very large bill that has to be recovered, that is to say, in the order of 530 billion. kr. But thank you for today's debate. I think it has been beneficial and it will be exciting to see how things are going with that mandate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420192256	Thank you, too. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. As far as I can see, no more people wish to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 25 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170420192314	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 21 April 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
