ParlaMint-DK_20170330100020	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 184 (Proposal for a law amending the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education, etc.) and law on vocational training institutions. Minister for Health (Karen Ellemann, fg.): Bill No. L 185 (Proposal for a Law on the Use of Force in the Somatic Treatment of Permanent Inhabile. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on measures to promote electric cars). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of toxic substances in ink). Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on maternity leave for fathers and co-mothers). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of a new paragraph of the Criminal Code on Digital Sexual Injuries). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the citizenship of young people born and raised in Denmark). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the tightening of tax legislation and criminal law on tax structures in grey areas, etc.). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100215	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100239	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 61 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Bent Bøgsted (DF), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 62 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 62 by Finn Sørensen (EL) and proposals for adoption No. V 63 by Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100353	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100417	We're gonna take a little break so everyone can vote. We're trying to see if it works. We hope so. Yes, we can proceed to the vote and vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal. Is the system working? That's good. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 13 (EL and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100559	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100614	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100632	Looks like sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330100650	When I take the floor to this bill, it is to point out that the Enhedslisten has tabled a very good and well-qualified amendment, which we really think Things should consider voting in favour. We have proposed that the motorway on which the proposal is based and which must be built around Haderup in order to relieve Haderup, among other things. heavy traffic, is built as a two-track expressway with a speed limit of 90 km/h, instead of the Government's proposal, where the bypass, as stated in the bill, is proposed as an expressway with 2+1 tracks and with a speed limit of 100 km/h. The amendment we are proposing is in line with the EIA study's proposal A1, as it says, and that is because Enhedslisten believes that it is unnecessary and that it is superfluous with a speed limit of 100 km/h. on the intended bypass. In doing so, the Enhedslisten emphasizes several issues. On the one hand, it is only a section of 5.5 km, so the time saving by increasing the speed limit from 90 to 100 km/h. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. In addition, the speed limit on the existing section north and south of the planned bypass will continue to be 80 km/h, whichever solution is chosen. This will mean that drivers will have to accelerate from 80 km/h to 100 km/h, and shortly thereafter they will have to slow up again and downgrade the speed to 80 km/h. This is the kind of kangaroo driving which, in the view of Enhedslisten, is not good for road safety, just as many accelerations subsequently with subsequent decelerations will be detrimental to the environment. This must be seen in particular in the context of the very minimal time gain which, it seems, will be upgrading the route with a speed limit of 100 km/h. In addition, the construction of a two-track motorway will save the total construction budget in the order of 30-40 million. kr., if you are to believe the EIA study, in comparison with the suggestion that you equip the bypass with 2+1 tracks and raise the speed limit to 100 km/h. I would like to point out that the road section in question is part of some of the country's least burdened roads. This is shown in the Vejdirektoratet's inventory of the state road network. So we are putting this proposal forward, and we hope, of course, that things will adopt it, but if that is not the case, we will come back awfully at the third reading with a new amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101007	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101015	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and ALT)? The proposal is adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101111	No amendments have been tabled. Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101135	Thank you. For the sake of good order and now that we have had plenty of time to think about: SF recommends the bill for adoption and also agrees with the alternative's comments that, if there are significant objections from the Danish Nature Conservation Association or other similar organisations or authorities during the construction phase, we expect the organisations to be given the opportunity to deal with their objections fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101157	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101217	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101245	Thank you for that, President. The bill here is a follow-up to the free municipality attempts, which ran from 2012 to 2015, where nine municipalities decided and were allowed to take the lead and investigate whether you could work more freely, smarter and more together to solve these tasks as you are going to a municipality. They are now done with those, I think it was in total more than 80 unique attempts • some of them have already been implemented into the legislation. Some of them were perhaps not the great success, but the vast majority were actually a huge success, and here are three concrete elements that have been successful in these municipalities. That is why I think it is quite right for the Danish Parliament to say: well, if it has been a success in these attempts, let us do it nationally and let us allow more municipalities to benefit from these attempts, so that ultimately we have spent taxpayers' money better and get better welfare and better service for citizens. One is about how to fight bear claws more wisely, the other is about how we get better opportunities to use buses to our welfare institutions, and the other is about how municipal call centers and community service centres can work smarter, cheaper and better. All three things have been very successful in the nine municipalities that have carried out the experiments, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party support this bill which takes the good elements from the experiments and makes them nationwide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101438	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101444	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing a draft law on free movement attempts, and it deals with three different things. The first one is bear claw, then there's something with buses, and then there's something with call centers. The free municipality trials ran, as we heard before, from 2012 to 2015, and now the government would like to exalt some of the attempts that have proved to give really good results out there in the municipalities. The first is that the municipality can fight bear claws on behalf of its owner if it does not comply with instructions. Today, it only applies to flying marshes, and it is then added to the law that it also applies to bear claws. And that sounds very reasonable, also in view of the fact that the bill includes a maximum price for what the citizen can be charged, and that price is DKK 3.81. per square meters, so that the citizen is not hit disproportionately hard. The second is to increase the flexibility and use of duty-free buses, by allowing more care centres to join one or more buses for the benefit of the care centre's citizens, and that buses can be used for purposes other than the transport of their own citizens, as long as driving is of interest to the institution. In the Danish People's Party, we are incredibly happy that residents at care centres will have better opportunities to get out to different activities. However, in committee we need to clarify what driving for other purposes is and whether it might go too far in relation to professional driving. That is why we have some clear questions in committee, and with this bill we can only call on the care centres to use buses for citizens so that they are not just allowed to stand. The last free municipality attempt will allow several municipalities to join forces to establish a common call centre. It is important for the Danish People's Party that such a common call centre continues to provide a high service to citizens and that it is also subject to the rules of the administration and personal data law when it comes to managing the data of companies and citizens. The draft law describes that the municipalities can use the resources in a better way, and if we are given an assurance that it does not impair the service and legal certainty of the citizen, then that sounds very reasonable. In the Danish People's Party, we are really positive about these three free municipalities' attempts and we look forward to the further committee reading where we have a few clarification questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101735	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101743	Thank you for that, President. The Left can also support the draft law on free movement attempts. We believe that it is a proper way of working to ask the municipalities whether, in an experimental way, we can identify some shortcomings in the current legislation, which is a barrier to the feeling of flexibility for the citizen and to more rational operation. The experience must then be translated into all municipalities, and the two previous rapporteurs have described very well what the content of the three things in the draft law is. That is why I would just like to make a few comments from the Left. I would like to say about the exemption for buses and coaches that it is there today, and now the framework for it is being extended. On the one hand, it must not at any time be seen as distorting competition by the private market. On the other hand, it may be possible to see whether this can be done even more flexibly, by allowing volunteers in civil society with buses to increase their efforts and contributions in social policy. On behalf of the Left, I would like us to consider this in future work. After all, there was a municipal reform which, as a natural consequence of the larger municipalities, made the distances in the individual municipalities wider. On the bear claw, I would say that I am very pleased that the consultation note from the Ministry makes it so clear that the tool now being given to public authorities can only be used on the basis of a party hearing so that the citizens' sense of justice for the future remains intact. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330101953	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102005	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have, of course, explained very well what the draft law is about, so I shall not tire the House or those who watch it to repeat that. The Enhedslisten also supports the bill, because the three municipal attempts, which are now being translated into general legislation, were some of those that we supported in the original draft law, which was, after all, a great mess of many different municipal attempts, in which Enhedslisten had to vote against the bill as such, because there were some absolutely inedible attempts, and we saw that citizens' rights were being undermined. However, the three attempts were on our positive list, so we are pleased that it has resulted in a legislative proposal in which they can be made universally applicable, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102101	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102108	Thank you. Several of the experiments carried out in connection with the free community experiment have actually proved to be quite successful, as we have heard. That's why this bill is going to translate some of the experience that has been gained into giving the municipalities more freedom, and that's actually the point of these experiments. Now it's about a mix of candy, you might say. It is from the fight against bear claws to buses running for nursing homes and elderly centres, and the establishment of community call centres. In order to make a long story short, it is some measures that have proved to be sustainable in the long run, and therefore it is very good that we have these opportunities to get as effective a municipal task solution as possible. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the municipalities are best placed to fulfil their task if they have the possibility of flexibility and if they have the free choice of tasks that they can now have, and that is what they only get by gaining greater freedom. This is a step in that direction, so we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102220	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102226	In the alternative, we are positive about these three proposals, not least because they are the result of free-community experiments, and therefore they have been tested in practice. We are pleased that the municipalities themselves are doing and verifying projects in free municipalities, and we will go a long way to allow municipalities to implement experiments based on local experience. We also think that the three attempts here make a great deal of sense. As far as the fight against bear claws is concerned, we think that is a very good way to combat them. We would have liked to see more of the common invasive species included, for example. wrinkled rose and mountain pine, but this is not possible, we understand. As far as buses are concerned, it makes sense and environmental benefits to get some buses to drive more, instead of standing still, and that also makes sense and good service to citizens. In relation to the call centres, we are aware that, despite savings, there appears to be no deterioration in service levels. So in the alternative, we're positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102333	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102337	Thank you. Radical Left is always in favour of making things smarter. In this case, there is now some experience from the free municipalities, which we think it is very sensible to implement. One is, of course, authorisation to fight bear claws on private grounds if the owner does not comply with the requirement to remove the bear claw himself. What is of course important to us in this matter is that private property is then entered and entered on private property. However, we do believe that this is justified by the fact that the bear claw is invasive and that several times the owner is given the opportunity to deal with the problem on his own. The second part is about sharing registration certificates on buses, on elderly centres, for example, and we think that is a very good idea. We do not see any problems in that at all. The last proposal is then about the possibility for municipalities to share call centres. There you have the whole question of personal data. Since the municipal tax is levied in one municipality in order to carry out the call centre task, should that solution be paid in the other municipality? There are some things that become problematic, but we see nothing but that we can manage and resolve the two municipalities that may have this wish. So we welcome the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102514	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102520	Thank you. As many of you have already said, we are dealing with some proposals which are the outcome of the free municipalities' attempts. They are, of course, very different to be in the same bill, but leave it alone. The question of allowing municipalities to remove bear claws, if it is the case that the owner does not do so himself, is a sensible proposal. So we are in favour of the proposal. We are also in favour of a proposal that is about sharing cars between care centres, even without the cost of registration fees. It makes very good sense to share the equipment in which the municipalities invest. In relation to the joint municipal call centre, we are also positive, but only with the remark that others have also made, namely that we must ensure the administrative conditions of citizens when employees in a municipality other than that from which citizens come have access to personal data. I think that is an issue which we may be able to discuss in greater detail in committee. However, the SF intends to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102635	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102642	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say, like the previous rapporteurs, that we too, on the conservative side, can support the draft law. I think it is important to give the municipalities sufficient flexibility and freedom and local opportunity to find the right solutions. I believe that this is also the way to ensure the most efficient operation of the municipalities. I will not go into the three elements of the draft law. I think the previous rapporteurs have been very careful about this. I just want to say that what is important to us is that this does not, of course, give the municipalities new duties, but, on the other hand, provides an increased room for local policy, which I think is important. At the same time, a little bit of the bureaucracy under which the municipalities are subject is being removed, and we of course welcome this from the conservative side. So in those words, I just want to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102729	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330102737	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs of the parties of the Folketing. After all, this has been a very constructive approach to this small legislative proposal. It is, after all, a small legislative proposal which, in fact, only translates three of the free municipalities' attempts that have been made. We have already translated 14 other free municipalities attempts into other regulatory changes under the respective Councils, and in addition we are examining whether there are further proposals which we can also make general rules or laws so that we learn as much from the free municipalities attempts, give maximum freedom to the municipalities, reduce bureaucracy and have more opportunities. After all, it is good to hear the broad support for the proposal. I would like to make a few comments on some of the comments that have fallen. In relation to the proposal for a bear claw, Mr. Carl Holst, who was talking about this party hearing. Of course, it is important to ensure that there is a proper process so that it is not just the case that public authorities can intervene against private property owners, but that there is a possibility that you may be heard on several occasions and in fact can be part of the process. It is about fighting the bear claw, but it is not about us bothering the citizens. So it's an important balance to have. The question of buses was also raised. In addition to the Left rapporteur, Mr. Carl Holst, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Susanne Eilersen, also spoke of the dilemma between what can be done on the one hand to use resources most flexibly in relation to the care centres and, on the other hand, how to not get too far in relation to the borders with the private sector. This is something that I myself have been very aware of in the preparation of the proposal. But, of course, I will answer further questions if there is a need for clarification in this regard, and that could be in both directions. Then I'm sure we'll find a model that everyone can appreciate. Finally, on the question of call centres, which were also raised by several speakers, I would just like to make a few perhaps more in-depth remarks. Indeed, in the matter of legal certainty, the rules of the Personal Data Act will continue to apply when employees look up in the participating municipalities' electronic systems. This means, among other things, that the participating municipalities in a joint community call centre have a duty to ensure that information is not misused or falls into the wrong hands. It follows from section 41 of the Personal Data Act. 3. that both private undertakings and public authorities which are data controllers must take the necessary technical and organisational security measures against the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or deterioration of information or the disclosure of information to unauthorised persons. It is also the case that access by the joint community call centre to the electronic document handling systems of participating municipalities must include only the information necessary for the call centre's performance of its service tasks. It should give an answer to the question that Mrs Susanne Eilersen had about the legal certainty part. In relation to the service part, it is still the responsibility of the individual municipality to provide services to citizens at the level that they are now planning to do. There are, of course, some legislative requirements, and if you want to do something further then it must be a municipal responsibility. With those comments, I would just like to thank all the positive initiatives that were, from the rapporteurs of all the parties, and to think that if all matters were as easy as this, it would be no problem to get through a matter here in the Things. But I look forward to more debate on other matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330103138	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330103153	First, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330103224	First of all, I would like to thank and acknowledge the Danish People's Party for presenting the two legislative proposals we are discussing here. It is, after all, a re-submission of two legislative proposals which have been tabled and discussed in the Folketing several times before. I think this is a good and proper time to take up these legislative proposals again. In relation to Bill No. L 124 it will be opened up that a party which has been set up entirely in a large circle may declare that the party votes in the large circle shall not belong to any candidate. This will mean that the selection of candidates elected by a party on the terms of office of the party in the large circle will be made solely on the basis of the personal votes of the candidates concerned. The votes of the parties will therefore only have an impact on the number of seats and not on the number of candidates elected. In relation to Bill No. L 125 it is proposed that a party with a co-ordinated position be given the opportunity to determine the order of the party's candidates in the large circle on the ballot papers in the individual seats. This form of arrangement can be called priority side-setting. As is the case today, parties with an equal position can only decide who is at the top of the list. That means nominating a single candidate, while the rest of the candidates must be listed in alphabetical order. The bill allows the parties themselves to choose whether they will continue to list the candidates alphabetically or the party will determine the order. As the election minister, I am very pleased to be able to tell you that the government supports both of these drafts from the Danish People's Party. I believe, as I said, that this is a good time to discuss the proposals now that we are neither close to the 2007 electoral reform nor close to a forthcoming parliamentary elections, which are scheduled for the summer of 2019. However, the proposal presents some technical challenges for Danmarks Statistik, as the proposals will require some technical changes to the electoral systems at Danmarks Statistik. It is clear that the proposals must come into force and be implemented as soon as possible, but I would like to discuss in committee whether we can shoot it perhaps for a few months in relation to the proposed, so that if we are now to issue a parliamentary election in the summer holidays, we will ensure that there are no rules that we will then not be able to implement in practice. It is important to bear in mind that both of these legislative proposals do not force the parties to use a certain layout, but only add two new options. There are many different views on what is most democratic, for example how much party votes and personal votes have to count in relation to each other in the individual stages. What is crucial to me as a minister is that the parties have the opportunity to choose the system that best suits their own party. The parties are the closest to deciding which forms of organisation best suit them in terms of their way of organizing themselves and their democratic traditions. The proposals will give the greatest freedom and influence on their own affairs. And then, in the future, we will also avoid situations where candidates go so far as to change their names in order to ensure a good ranking on the ballot. I look forward to a good debate on both legislative proposals here today and, as I said, I am of course also available for committee reading. I look forward to hearing the views of the parties and hope that we will make these two small, sensible improvements to the Danish People's Rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330103621	Thank you, Minister. We shall then proceed with the rapporteur's line, and that is first, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330103636	Thank you. This is not the first time we have had the debate in Parliament on these legislative proposals, but in my preparation for the debate I have read out what has actually been said, of course not only by the Socialist rapporteurs, but generally in the Assembly, about these things. There have been various parties which have expressed with varying degrees of strength that something had to be done here, since the reform of the electoral system, which made it possible to create much, much larger major circles, and thus we had a new situation in Denmark. So different parties have had different views on whether they could do anything to allow things to change, which these two proposals are also part of. However, what many parties have said so far, at least, is that it may well be that there is a need to look at the evaluation • now it is 12 years since the reform of the electoral system came into force • whether there are any shortcomings, whether there is a need to open up more. But we have to do it very, very thoroughly, because this is the fine mechanics of Danish democracy, and when we adjust something as fundamental as the electoral law, I must at least as a member of the Folketing be absolutely sure that what we are opening up to is something that is professionally and factually based. It's not just something you have to do every two years. I can hear that the Minister is very, very fond of the bill, and that is a good thing. It is not the Minister's own proposal; it is not a proposal that the government itself has made; it is a proposal that has come from the opposition, and it is not always that a minister is happy with such proposals, but so is today. The question arises as to why the government itself has not made the proposal, but it does not matter. It is quite all right to be happy with a proposal from the opposition. It is actually just excellent, but the fact that the proposal is from the opposition or rather from part of the parliamentary basis of the government, but after all not from the government itself, means that the proposal has not yet been consulted. We have not had the normal process that we would have had if it had been a government proposal. In other words, the input normally obtained from experts and organisations and other things is not available at the same level as we would have if it had been a government proposal. I understand the arguments now being put forward, and I am also well aware that this is something that offers opportunities. But whether you are a big party or a small party, it is something that puts the party in a new situation. This will probably mean that all parties will have to change their statutes, for example. with regard to the circuits in which to run. There are a great many consequences of this, which I really believe we need to get to the bottom of, and the task of getting to the bottom of them is not diminished by the fact that it is not a government proposal but a proposal from the Folketing. In other words, there is a greater task of holding hearings and calling experts. That is why I have to say that we are going very, very thoroughly into this work. It has to be thorough. We really need to be in depth here, so I suggest that we call for hearings in our committee and bring these experts in. I myself have asked changing ministers about these elements. I'm deeply concerned about them myself. However, the response of successive ministers in the past has been that it was too early to evaluate the reform of the electoral system. But now there has also been another choice, and it may be that you no longer think it is too early. So let us look at what the experts are saying and let us get an overview of what it will have with consequences when we go in and change something. When we look beyond the chairs here, we can see that it will mean that there will be a replacement as to who is sitting in the Danish Parliament. It will mean something for how the voters' crosses count in our democracy. So we must be sure that this is not something that we regret and that has some unintended consequences for the way we are represented in our constituencies and for how the cruisers watch. Therefore, on the basis of a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which has not yet been consulted, I cannot state what we are going to say about whether we will end up voting in favour or against. So it depends on whether we get to the bottom of things through thorough work. That is why I would also like to appeal to you that, when we draw up a timetable for the proposal here, we shall make it long enough for us to be able to consult the experts and to have an evaluation of the electoral reform carried out, which I consider to be part of here, so that we are on perfectly safe grounds professionally and objectively. So I look forward to the debate, but it will be a very, very thorough debate. It's very funny that it's very, very rare that you get this as a question when you're out in the country.I'm taking a lot of things around Denmark, which makes most of us debates with the population. It's very, very rare that it happens. But here at Christiansborg it is of course a top issue. This is a huge point for the Folketing. So what you care about the people is not so much what needs to be changed, but that it should be something that you can understand and that it should be something that is professionally and factually based. This is simply something that is crucial in our electoral law. If you do not do so in a factual and professional way, but do so in a hurry, confidence in our democratic system will crumble. That is why we must do it properly, and that is what we intend to do when we embark on the thorough work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104222	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party. Sir. Magnus Heunicke has to wait. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104232	A long, worrying statement of this kind made by the rapporteur calls for just a few questions. It sounds almost as if the Social Democrats are afraid that they will not get the mandates they will get, but that is not what this is all about. This is all about allowing a party to have an extra option. The Social Democrats are free to keep the forms they have, but the Social Democrats will then also be able to set their feet, as I hear it, so that other parties that have other desires will not be allowed to do so. After all, it is simply a question of which candidates from the individual party can enter and how to stand on an electoral list. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur why we do not want to give other parties a democratic opportunity to set up in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104328	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104331	Thank you for the question. This has nothing to do with the position between the parties, i.e. how many seats the parties get in. So thank you for making this clear to the rapporteur for the proposers themselves. I haven't said it, either, but if anyone thought it, I'd say it has nothing to do with it. It's got to do with who that's what it's all about. If you turn the question and ask why freedom of choice is not being made on everything, I would say that we will not do so, because it would be quite headless if we were to say that all ideas of any kind should be in order. I have not at all denied that this could be something that you can be in favour of, but we have to do it very thoroughly when we choose to change the electoral law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104415	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104416	Now that this change in these two laws does not have to affect social democracy in any way whatsoever, I have to ask again: why will social democracy not open up to the democratic right of other parties to be listed in a different way and for the counting of mandates to take place in a different way? It should, of course, be completely free from that. And we are not afraid that democracy will go away with this; on the contrary, we believe that it strengthens democracy to do so here. So why does the Social Democrats not want to give other parties an opportunity that they can simply refrain from taking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104459	My conclusion in the rapporteur's speech was that we need to work on this thoroughly. I have not rejected the proposal, nor have I said that we will vote in favour of it, but I have said that we cannot do so at this stage, because it is a legislative proposal that has not been in consultation because we have not had the thorough process that I believe is necessary as a basis for doing something like this. However, on the fundamental question of why we do not just want to give free choice to everything, I would say that we should not do that in our electoral law, because I stand by the fact that it would be quite headless to say that there is a party that has a different form of fiction to do things. To the fact that one wants to be allowed to run in this way and that it is one's own free choice, I would say that no, it is not, because the electoral law applies to all parties, and then one has to choose which of the democratic and well-founded options one then wants. We must now have this work done well-founded and properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104547	Sir. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104550	Thank you. After all, there are two proposals we are discussing here, and I would like to ask a question about one of them, and that is precisely the question of giving the parties freedom of choice in relation to the order in which the candidates of the parties can stand in a parliamentary election. This is a debate we have had before. I believe that this is the fifth time in recent years that we have the debate, and I see that in a debate already in October 2008, colleagues from the rapporteur's party, the Social Democratic Party, also thought that it was going too fast. At that time, the Social Democratic Party wanted to come out and ask the party's hinterland, and I know that the Social Democracy is the largest party in this Parliament. But how many years does it take to ask the whole country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104628	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104630	I am a little surprised that we are having such a polemical debate here. But of course it is free to ask what questions you want to ask. My errand is to say that at this stage we cannot say what we are going to vote for or against of these two legislative proposals. Because it is proposals that have not been consulted and from the outset we have said, in other words, the times when we have dealt with similar proposals, that we have to have it broadly based and have the professional foundation in order. That is why I have now said that we will call hearings and call experts and see if we can have an evaluation of the electoral reform. Because I see this as something that has become relevant as a result of the electoral reform. It may be that I am not right about that, but we can then clarify that in the committee's work. Every party is free to do so, and frankly I think it is a fair and fair way of conducting parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104727	There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330104741	The Left supports both L 124 and L 125. The Minister has explained very well what this is about, and it is that the parties, it is in one proposal, must be able to choose the order, and whether, and it is in the other, it is only personal votes or personal votes and list votes that determine the order in which elections are to take place. It is stressed that this is an opportunity for individual parties to make use of, and that is why the Left supports both proposals. I would say that you are right that during previous debates some of my party colleagues have had a different starting point. I am today presenting the Left's point of departure with the view that, although the parties are not mentioned in the Constitution, they are the backbone of our democracy, in that it is the parties that are making candidates for municipal elections, regional elections and parliamentary elections, and that it is they who are doing the political development of ideas that is taking place within the parties. My starting point is that this backbone must have the best possible framework for organising itself, in other words, in each party, how it is to be implemented. Therefore, because it is voluntary, the Left is positive, but of course it is also on the assumption that it should be possible to do what I find difficult to imagine it cannot. I think the Minister revealed that he was aware of it when he noticed that there could be some things in relation to Danmarks Statistik that we should look at in the further work. I'm very comforted to hear that. So says Mr. Magnus Heunicke, that it is a strange proposal, given that it is put forward by the Danish People's Party, but the government supports it. And if the government supports it, why don't they put it forward themselves? And that's Christiansborgfnidder. In other words, a legislative proposal is put forward, then you look at the substance of the proposal and then you vote 'yes' or 'no' or 'yellow'. You do not look at a proposal and ask who has put it forward, but you look at the content. This is also the case in a number of cases in the Social Democratic Party, and it is clear from the fact that the Social Democrats have supported a number of resolutions tabled by others, despite the fact that they have not been tabled themselves. We look forward to further work and I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105053	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105108	Thank you. Let's take it first: Enhedslisten supports the two bills. As far as L 125 is concerned, we have also supported a proposal with the same content in the past, so we have no difficulty with that. It is, of course, in the same premise, as both the Minister and the Left have explained, that the introduction of some additional options into the electoral law with regard to the nomination of candidates and the procedure for them is something that is therefore extra choice, and it is, of course, on the clear assumption that we support it. The Enhedslisten has a completely different approach to it than I believe all other parties here in the Danish Parliament have. We have that view, and it is our view of democracy in this context that it is more democratic if it is the members of the party who decide the question of who should be given priority as candidates and where they should be placed in the big circles. So we are running with what is called a party list that will be adopted at our annual meeting. The electoral law also has the possibility to do so, and the principle of this possibility will not be tampered with by this bill. In addition, we must, of course, deal with the content of the other options contained in the electoral law. After all, we all have a shared responsibility for this, regardless of which of the possibilities we see as parties. And, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we are going to look at the content of this and look at it carefully, and we have assessed it in the past, and I will do so today, that if a different principle is adopted in our party for the nomination of candidates, then the opportunities that our party will then be able to avail itself of. And we believe that they are reasonable and that it is within a democratic framework to take advantage of the opportunities that will then be specified. We do not want to do that now, but we must, of course, be aware that at some point there could be some in our party who had a different opinion, and that is why we must also look at it carefully. To Mr. Magnus Heunicke I would say that in many other contexts the fact that a bill has not been submitted to consultation could in itself be enough for Enhedslisten to pull the emergency brake. Because we fully agree that the consultation process is absolutely crucial. And without wishing to open a completely different debate, there are many other legislative proposals here, where things are going quite fast, and I will say no more so as not to spoil the good mood. And I think that's what I'm talking about... I'm sorry, you can't say that, President. I heard it before the President did. Well, I think it applies to all governments, and that is, as far back as the eye goes, that a heel is cut and a toe is chopped when a government has bitten that something just has to be passed through. If the Enhedslisten does not necessarily think that we have to pull the emergency brake on this issue, it is because, firstly, the nature of the proposal, which is very much about whether the parties in here can agree on how the rules of the game should be. And there we have to assume that the parties are about to know what they think of it and have discussed it with their hinterland and all the hard-working people who sit in the constituencies and have to administer the electoral law. At least we have that for Enhedslisten, and it can be said that this is an easy task for us in this context. Secondly, there is the fact that it has been thoroughly discussed before. There's no new point of view in this bill as far as I can see. So we are not going to pull the emergency brake on that. But we would like to agree with Mr. Magnu Heunicke in that it must of course have a thorough treatment. We support a timetable in which all parties can see themselves, so there will be time to pick things up. And we will also support the holding of hearings along the way. That is quite clear. Otherwise, with the modest shares we have in it, we will just listen carefully to the further debate on this. And if there are any amendments of one kind or another, we will of course deal with them and not rule out in advance that we will be able to support one of them. But it must be based on an objective assessment of what is coming forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105539	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105543	Thank you. With the two legislative proposals that we are dealing with here, we are all down to the details of our democracy, you might say. As it is today, the parties only have the opportunity to put up their candidates in alphabetical order, which is why we see at each election creative attempts to climb up on the list in the hope of achieving a better choice. Some are suddenly given a hyphen between their middle name and surname because the initial of their middle name happens to appear earlier in the alphabet than the surname, while others out of thin air start using their birth name, as we have seen, while others again completely loop their surname and only use their middle name. There is no limit to what we have seen in this area. Not only is it quite unreasonable to pressure people to change their name just to obtain the dream of coming to parliament, but it would be more appropriate, for the sake of democracy and fairness, to leave it to the parties to assess who should be on the list, rather than to let a coincidence, such as which name one has now been given by one's parents, decide whether one gets a marginally greater chance of obtaining elections. The second question is whether it is the personal vote number that will determine whether a candidate will be elected to the Folketing. If you ask a random voter what is crucial, I am quite sure that the answer will be that it is the personal votes. That is the general view. But that is not always the case. Because today's party votes are counted and distributed per person. the number of seats, the result of the election may depend on where the votes fall. Why not set up the system so that it meets what the voters expect? After all, voters expect that it is the personal vote that is crucial in a parliamentary election, and not where the votes have been cast. This bill from the Danish People's Party will enable us to achieve this, which is why I do not understand Magnus Heunickes's concern when he says that we have to trust the system, because this must give more confidence when the system meets the usual expectations. There were many concerns in Mr. Magnus Heunickes's speech, but his concern that it should be in line with the expectations of citizens or voters, seems to me to be only in the direction of supporting the proposal. It can be said that there is always a democratic balance, but what is most democratic? Is it the number of personal votes to decide whether a candidate will be elected and should the parties themselves decide the order of their listing, or should the choice of candidates be made on the basis of coincidences such as one's initial letter, as I mentioned, or where they have been appointed? We are therefore in no doubt in the Liberal Alliance and therefore support the proposal. I would also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105852	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330105856	The alternative is positive about these two DF proposals, as we believe that this makes parliamentary elections fairer, and that makes the layout process more flexible. We think it is most fair that those who get the most personal votes are the ones who win the elections. We think it is fine with the proposal called L 125, because it allows us to decide for ourselves how to put our candidates on the list with or without a leading candidate. With regard to L 125, we are also pleased to be able to use such a zipper method in the future, for example. can make a listing that changes between men and women. However, the question is whether we are setting up electoral procedures which are completely incalculable for ordinary people. At present we have (a) a list of political parties, in which party votes belong to candidates in order; (b) a series of circuit votes which belong to the candidate of the circle; (c) an alphabetical order in which the circle votes are distributed in proportion to the number of personal votes in the circle; (d) a nominated page setting, i.e.: with a circuit candidate at the top and the rest in alphabetical order. And then we are making two new points or at least moderate points c and d. You could say we're making a point e), which is a type of side-ordered setup where the winner takes it all, and f), which is a priority side-ordered setup. I think it is worth thinking about whether in future we should consider simplifying things a little, so that it is not only politicians who understand it. Perhaps it would be an idea to go under the electoral law at some point. In any case, I believe that it will be possible to make it simpler.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110034	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110038	It's always insanely exciting to have this kind of discussion. For Mr. Magnus Heunicke is absolutely right that those who are probably most concerned about this are us sitting here and our hinterlands in the political parties. This is certainly something that has been recording the Radical Left for many years. Just as in the past, we are very concerned that there is openness about how these lists appear and that it is clear to the electorate when you enter the voting box that you have an opportunity to vote for the individual party and that you have the opportunity to understand that. It always takes technique for the individual citizen to understand how to vote for an election. If we continue to be positive about this, it is, of course, about the fact that it will be an opportunity for each party to make a choice on how to put up their candidates for the elections. As it is today, there are a number of options, and by adding this nominated political order, we actually believe that there is another opportunity for the parties to make a choice which is not about the name of each politician, but rather about where they want the different politicians to be placed on the ballot. We think that is very sensible. We have thought so in the past, we still think so. The second part of the proposal is, of course, about party-list votes, and it is also an opportunity here that you will have. It is clear that there are some considerations in the individual parties as to where we are to be set up. Because if you are going to have a very high personal vote, it is very good to be in place where there is a high concentration of voters. It is, of course, also a question of the extent to which one gets partylist votes in the party or whether one gets personal votes. So there are a lot of discussions, but there are some that can be taken within the party. What we have to bear in mind here is that it is possible to do so, and then individual decisions can be taken in the respective parties. So we are in favour of both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110247	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110253	I will begin by agreeing with the much support for the two proposals. Both proposals have been made in the past and SF has previously been co-sponsored. As in the past, we also support both proposals. I mean, we're not the kind of guy who's running around making puzzles. As I have said, this is an extension of possible forms of construction, and although we are still supporting it, I would also like to support Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Magnus Heunickes's proposal for an expert meeting or a hearing. After all, the extension of the method of setting up can also make it more difficult for citizens to keep track of how the votes they cast are managed. That would be an unintended consequence. So I think that it would be a good thing if we could do both, i.e. both have a little more common understanding of how citizens have an overview of the different layouts, while at the same time, of course, we should allow the individual parties to decide what they are choosing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110417	Thank you for that, President. It is a wonderful day for democracy, we think in the Danish People's Party. And as the SF and the Radical and Liberal Allicance have also mentioned before, these proposals have been up in the past because they would have liked to have changed this at an earlier stage. I don't know if it's the fourth or the fifth time it's on. It's been going through a whole lot of years. Nevertheless, it proves that we must have patience in politics, because suddenly we find a way to succeed. In the Danish People's Party we are extremely pleased with the support we have heard here today from all the parties, and I would also like to thank the Minister for an incredibly good and constructive process and good cooperation on these two legislative proposals. A great deal has been said about what the proposals contain and so on, so I will not go into that, but I would just like to say that these two legislative proposals are small democratic steps which I believe can help to strengthen the interest in democracy. These are steps in the right direction, in which the parties themselves are free to choose between forms of organisation, also in the light of the size of the parties. Some parties have more or less resources to hold more or less sit-downs and make lists, etc. around the country, and there they still have those opportunities. It is important that we support democracy as well as we can, also in order to get young new candidates to stand for democracy while maintaining a high turnout. In the Danish People's Party we see these two bills as a natural development and adjustment of the electoral law; a few steps towards a more flexible approach for the parties; an incentive for voters to be more actively appreciative of deciding which people they would prefer to represent their party and attitude at Christiansborg. Because it should not just be that you have been sitting for many years or that you are born with a name that comes high on the list that makes you come in. It has to be hard work to get into the Folketing. It is an incredibly important office of trust that we get here by getting that recognition, and it takes diligence and hard work in an election campaign, and that is how it should be. I also believe, as has already been said, that the electorate already has the expectation that it is the personal voices that decide who is coming in the Folketing. We have also seen examples of this in each election, i.e. that there are others who are overtaken by party voting on top of it. So all in all, I think this is a good day for democracy, and we must insist that it continues to be. I look forward to further committee reading and I would like to enter into a very good and constructive dialogue, including with the Social Democrats and others who have been sceptical, so that we can get the country a text that I hope we can all support. So thank you for that and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110720	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110725	Thank you for that and thank you for the last remarks. I'd like to make something clear. I understand there are a lot of people who are now supporting this proposal. We haven't taken a position yet. After all, we ourselves are putting a lot of proposals to the vote to get the debate going. That's great. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that we in the committee will have the hearings and discussions with the experts who will advise us, so that we are sure that we are on safe ground here. I fully understand the voluntary nature of this. I fully understand the mechanisms of this and the inappropriate ways in which we are trying to rectify it. But you can risk creating new ones that you are not aware of if we are not entirely sure. I hope to have the rapporteur's confirmation that we will have time for this in the timetable, because we are talking about the electoral law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110819	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110821	Thank you. I have to remind the questioner that I am not in the government and that I do not have the authority under me. But I am quite sure that it will take place. I do not know if the Minister is going on afterwards and can confirm this and tell us what he is going to do on this issue. We in the Danish People's Party do not put an obstacle to dialogue in committee work. Of course we don't. That goes without saying. That would be silly. I'd like us all to back up. As the questioner says, it is the electoral law we are dealing with and it looks nicer that we can all find a friendly solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110900	There are no further comments. Then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who has just made a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110909	Thank you very much. I'll do it a little on request. I thought that I would just note that if there is a wish for it also by the proposers, we are, in fact, open to a consultation process facilitated by the Ministry. Of course, it would have to be with the approval of the proposers, because it would result in the final entry into force of a month if we were to do such a consultation process. I think we can live with that, because there will hardly be parliamentary elections this year, so I do not think that will be a decisive factor. I see there's nodding, so I just think we should agree to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330110948	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111009	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111028	Thank you for the proposal from the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and SF in relation to the issue of amending the law on municipal and regional elections, so that the current d'Hondt method of distribution is replaced by the largest fraction method in terms of the distribution of seats in municipal and regional elections. Now we are probably going into the slightly more technical subtleties, and with regard to this proposal, I think I am a little more in agreement with Mr Beazley. Magnus Heunickes's considerations from before that here it is important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. There are, of course, the advantages and disadvantages of the two methods to say what they are. I think most people are aware that this is something that has been discussed on previous occasions. The advantage of the d'Hondt method is, among other things, that a party with a majority will always receive a majority; that is, a party with a majority of the voting members will also receive a majority of the municipal council. The disadvantage, however, is that small parties have more difficulty in being represented and that a party which does not have a majority of the electorate can nevertheless obtain a majority in the municipal council. There is both the dilemma of who gets a majority and does not get a majority, and then there is the question of who gets over-represented. With the d'Hondt method, large parties are marginally over-represented. By the largest fraction method small parts are marginally over-represented. This is, of course, a very obvious dilemma, which we will have to deal with in this way. It is the case that the government has chosen to say that it is the current rules that we will continue to support, because we believe that it is essential that a party that has a majority of the electorate will also have a majority in the municipal council. Then perhaps some people have read it out and thus know that the Liberal Alliance has had a different attitude on previous occasions, and it has to be said that politics is to give and take. We have just dealt with two other proposals in the field of elections, where it was slightly different how the governing parties had behaved on the last occasion, and that is the way it is. Sometimes it gets as you thought it did in the last two and this time it's what others thought. We'll live fine with that. This is a good example of the fact that there is influence for everyone by engaging in intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111326	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Well, there's just one comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111335	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister for a very clear one too, one might say, setting up the dilemmas, namely the pros and cons of the two methods. Then it is a political choice which one makes. Thank you, too, for an honest answer, as to why you have changed your mind. Now there is government, and now there is a new situation. It's liberatingly honest, and then it's been given and taken. Then you can assess whether it is a proper approach to such a question, but I think it is fair to put it out that way. It will probably happen a little later in the rapporteur's line that some people also say that they have changed their position. Maybe you could imagine. Well, we can have a good time about that. What I would like to ask is: what is best for democracy? In other words, the Minister recognizes that the current method of counting it up, the d'Hondt method, in order to get all the curtains to roll down immediately before the eyes of those who go along with it, may mean that a party which is in the minority of the electorate, that is to say, which does not have a majority of the electorate behind it, will still have a majority in the municipal council and thus be able to majorise other parties. Is that good for democracy? I simply do not understand that. Would it not be better for democracy to use what is being proposed here? It will mean something else. And yes, it may well lead to the opposite, but it will, after all, force the great party into an exercise that we are so happy about at home, namely negotiations with other parties in order to obtain a majority for the things one would like to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111509	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111511	In any case, it could be said that it would add the exciting dilemma that then there is a party that has had more voters than the other parties, who then have to be praised for the honesty of the compromises they have reached with those who represent a minority of the electorate, but not a majority of the elected ones. In fact, that illustrates as the whole of Mr. Finn Sørensen's speech is the dilemma. I think we should be completely honest and open and say that there is that dilemma. And then you can weigh whether it's one or the other. I think that, for most of us, it will often be on a knife egg, whether to go to one side or the other, because the dilemma is so obvious. Then the government has chosen to stick to the known method. But it is clear that Mr. Finn Sørensen understands that I too can easily understand the reasoning which Mr. Finn Sørensen is coming with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111613	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111614	Thank you. For them, the rapporteur himself has been involved in making statements on previous occasions. But I'm trying to peel all that teasing off. That is to get an objective answer to what I am asking, namely what is best for democracy. That is what we need to assess from this point of view. And if we look at the otherwise highly sung Danish co-operative government, we see that it is just a fact that for more than a hundred years it has built on compromises to obtain a majority. It has not been the case that a party which did not have a majority behind it among the electorate could decide everything, to put it that way. So it would probably be best in accordance with the democratic traditions that have now developed in this country to move on to the method proposed by the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111713-2	I think we should be very careful, no matter what position we may then take, to pursue methods of promoting either a special form of cooperation, or that a majority can use its majority. It must be up to the parties that are elected if they get a majority, whether they want to use that majority or whether they want wider cooperation. I think sir... Finn Sørensen knows me as someone who wants to work together on a wide range of issues. I also think that the cases we have had in recent months have been good examples of this. Then it is true that there is a dilemma with regard to what to choose, and I think I have already explained this in quite detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111802	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111804	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I'll hold on to it a little bit, sir. Finn Sørensen spoke about, because in the motion for a resolution there are three examples of municipalities where a party has not obtained an absolute majority, but in relation to the d'Hondt method, they have nevertheless obtained a majority of seats in the city council and thus have the majority. We have then talked about whether it is democratically correct, and we in the Danish People's Party do not think so. If you could imagine that we could make an amendment if it was legally possible, where there was a valve, which meant that if a single batch got 50.1%. of the votes, then a rule came into force that it could still keep the majority if this electoral law was amended. I cannot say here from the platform whether it is legally possible, but if so, would the Minister be able to say yes to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111913	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111914	I think these are some good and well-prepared examples that have been taken into account in the resolution. I cannot say on a stand-by basis how the government will react to an amendment of the nature referred to by Mrs Susanne Eilersen. But it is clear that all the proposals that may be made in connection with the work of the committee will be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111941	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330111942	Thank you. Then the Minister can expect such an amendment. So I would like to ask something quite different: what is the Minister's position on the fact that there are a lot of citizens in a given municipality who vote for some small parties and also on local lists, which we see and this may well be about a number of citizens and that the political attitude that the citizens want to promote in that municipality is not being represented? What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112017	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112019	It is clear that a lot of thought can be given to this. Because if we look at both the municipal councils, the regional councils, the European Parliament and the Folketing, we can see that there are different methods, either an absolute threshold, as we know it from parliamentary elections, or the natural limits, as we know it from the other elections, that there are views which may be widespread but which are not represented. For example, the Liberal Alliance got... in the last European Parliament elections, more votes than would have been required in the Folketing, but that is not enough to come to the European Parliament, and that is sometimes the case when assemblies have a certain size. It is clear that this is the advantage of the largest fraction method rather than the d'Hondtian, and that is part of the dilemmas that I outlined at the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112106	Sir. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112109	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that during the last parliamentary term the Minister, together with the undersigned, fought for this particular proposal to change it into a division of seats after the greatest fraction, and the Minister himself was quite good at teasing the Socialist People's Party when they had suddenly changed their minds in various areas after they joined the then government. So I would just like to ask the Minister: when a day comes when the Liberal Alliance is no longer in government, will the Minister again support the proposal for the largest fraction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112143	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112143-2	I am not sure that I can think this far ahead, because I am counting on this government, which seems to be stable and stable for the time being, to sit for many years. And then we'll see. It may be that we have changed the rules before we ever get to where I am no longer going to be the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. That is why it is difficult to imagine in advance how they would have to change again. However, speaking of this with different views, in my speech to the then proposal I commended the Radical Left precisely for the fact that the radical rapporteur had a rudely honest approach to the discussion, and I said, and I quote myself, 'I think it is fair that the minister is part of the collective', it has to be said that the minister is doing so while the rapporteur represents the party and explains how things are related to party politics. That was my position with regard to the Radical Left, and it is also my position with regard to the Liberal Alliance and all sorts of other parties. And then I just have to say that I'm going to think about the chorus of the old Liva Weel song when I discuss it with Mr. Weel. Morten Marinus: He has my sympathy, but he has nothing to have it in this particular case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112258	Thank you. Then we need to get the rapporteur going, and that's Mr. Knox. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112312	Thank you. Yeah, Liva Weel, it was great to get that song on your brain! But now for something more serious: the examination of this proposal to change the way we put together our city council, our municipal councils and citizens' representatives and our regional council. Today we have the D'Hondt method, and I think the Minister should be commended for the honest explanation, not only on his own government's position and on his party's position, but also on the fact that this is a matter of choice between two imperfect regimes. It is a misunderstanding and unfortunately a widespread misunderstanding, I think when some people stand up and say that there is only one method that is pure and that will be the perfect method. It's not. It is a choice between different imperfect methods. And it is not only Denmark that lives with the choice that all other countries do, and we can see how the d'Hondt method that we use in Denmark is widely used in Europe, but actually also outside Europe. So it's widely used. I can well understand that examples can be found, and this has been done in the thorough preparatory work on the proposal here, where one can ask whether this is right now. And if you say locally that you think that is not fair, I would say that I can understand that. However, you can find just as many examples if you choose to turn it into what is in the proposal here on something that would not be fair either. For example: I believe that, in principle, it will really be a major democratic problem if we have a situation in which a majority of citizens in a municipality use their democratic right to vote for a party, but risk that, if this is changed, the other parties will be able to join forces against the party that the citizens have voted for and that that party will have no influence on a majority of citizens! There I think you will see torchlodge and desperation over a democratic system, and I will have a great understanding of that. The d'Hondt method ensures that this happens. But I must also say that the D'Hondt method is not perfect either, as I said. I have to say quite clearly that it is not perfect. But what do we have? Then we have the opportunity to form an electoral union. That was not the Minister's point, but we do have that which is a way to get beyond the imperfect ones, you might call it elements that are in the d'Hondt method. You can enter into electoral federations so that you pool the votes together and in this way get bigger and can get the mandates in that way. That's fine, we'll do it ourselves. The Social Democrats themselves form lots of electoral federations, but in fact all parties do so, as far as I am aware. All parties are involved in different forms of electoral federations, local, regional, etc. I think that's excellent. If we introduce the proposal that lies here, where, in the words of the Minister, instead of the d'Hondt method, which will tend to favour the large parties minimally, we will have the biggest fraction of the method which will minimally favour the small parties, then we can imagine the opposite of there being no electoral federation; there will actually be a risk of a waste of votes for the large parties. There will typically be a risk of a loss of voice. On the other hand, you will probably have some situations where you will be rewarded for splitting the party into several different lists. Today we see this from time to time when there are parties in the municipalities that are smoking upsets; then there are the Left 1, the Left 2 and the Left 3 and so on. The rapporteur nods, but that is probably because you are a little tired of it, because it is certainly not something you are happy about when it happens. But I'm not gonna interfere with that. But where you have it and you have it in some places you will, as far as I can assess it, get a big gain from it. I do not think that is extremely wise democratically. So for me, we have a choice between different imperfect yet fine models. The current model seems to me to have some basic features which we Social Democrats are most in favour of and, in relation to the things that are imperfect in it, we have a method of some electoral federations that come up with a great deal of those things. That is why we are going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112756	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112800	Thank you. These are two imperfect methods, and we are so sticking to the method which clearly has an advantage for the large parties, which the rapporteur also represents by being Denmark's largest party. I stand here as elected for Denmark's second largest party and speak for democracy. We can also be easily affected by this in the municipalities, and we are fully aware of this. But we simply want the citizens to be represented by those whom they vote for. But then I hear that you don't want to be in the Social Democracy, and maybe it's the mayor's chains that are dangling a little ahead. But if we now assume that we had an amendment made, which means that if you, as a single party, get fifty decimals some percent of the votes, then there is a cat member who will, of course, get the majority in a city council, how does the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party react to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112902	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112903	I respect the fact that we are trying to say what can then be done, but I simply cannot answer that while I am standing here. I cannot at all assess what consequences this will have, and that is not part of the resolution here. So we simply have to dive deeper into that to see what consequences it will have. I can easily understand where you are going with that proposal. I understand that very well, but we simply have to dive deeper into it. So I cannot say yes or no to that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112941	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330112942	I look forward to the Social Democrats entering the debate constructively when there is an amendment that we shall then be looking at. I would nevertheless like to point out that the rapporteur believes that it does not matter that, as we see this proposal, anyone can obtain an absolute majority and not a democratic right to lead a municipality with fewer than 50%. of the votes, of which there are three excellent examples. This seems to the rapporteur to be a smaller problem than if the other one were to be the case, where a party with 50.1%. I would also like to point out that, when the elections are over, they can also go out and go in the electoral union with others and so on. or can come together with other parties and thereby get proposals through. However, I should like to know whether the rapporteur believes that democracy is best represented by having fewer than 50 per cent of the population. of the voices and yet lead a city and the city's citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113043	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113044	I think I have explained it. I am not saying that the d'Hondt method is perfect, I have even explained where I do not think it is perfect, but I also think I have explained that there are some elements in what is being proposed here that are, to put it mildly, not perfect either. One of them is now being tried to table an amendment, and let us try to see what that will mean and whether it can take anything into account. I am open to looking at it, but I cannot promise anything at all, because it requires very, very thorough studies. I also think I have mentioned the second issue of electoral federations and divisions, but we have not really received an answer to that. So there are some elements in this proposal that I would be worried about, to be honest now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113127	Then it is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113130	Thank you. I cannot help but say that I need to hear a little more about those uprisings in the streets, i.e. whether the rapporteur can mention where there will be riots in the streets. Because what I can see is that the proposers are also a large party, as can be imagined in municipal and regional elections, which will be able to obtain a large majority in some places. Is it also imagined that there will be uprisings in the streets, where the party of the proposers will be given a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113202	No, I don't think that's gonna happen. However, I outlined a situation in which citizens go to elections, and it is in huge numbers that we come up with, which we must have so much respect for and care for. We must do everything we can to ensure that the system is designed in such a way that we respect the voice that the citizens, when they come and tick their ticks, cast in the ballot boxes. So the citizens are very much involved. The situation I described was then the one in which a majority of the electorate was more than 50 per cent. The other parties can then get together and say, "You can't be used for anything, you don't get into anything, you don't get the mayor's post." The voice of the citizens will then not be heard there, and I think that will be a great kick in our democracy, and I think that will be a fundamental problem for us. I foresee that the citizens who are entitled to ask whether it really is true that a majority of the citizens of this municipality, that is to say more than 50%, have voted, but that the system is still designed in such a way that it does not give a majority. I would think that was a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113328	Mrs. Sanne Bjørn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113329	I would just like to acknowledge that the rapporteur nevertheless recognises that there is a problem with small parties and that the rapporteur will help to look at some solutions to this. Because it would be nice if the D'Hondt method could apply to large parties and that as a small party one could choose to use the largest fraction method. This is not quite the case, but if you could now find something that also benefits smaller parties, it is good that the rapporteur is positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113357	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113358	Thank you. Yeah, well, if that's possible with that kind of arrangement and that way, I think we should probably expand those town councils. I don't think we can live up to that. In other words, electoral federations have been found, and electoral federations are, after all, a way that actually works quite well in practice today. That's my very clear impression, and it's a way to solve this. Of course it is not unproblematic either, because the electoral federations are something that can give some votes to some other parties, and that can also be problematic. However, they are part of our democratic culture in Denmark, which understands how it works. We can also imagine some other consequences of such a proposal, for example. splits where you get some extra mandates if you do. I'd think that was bad. So it's a choice between different flawed methods to use that word again, however, where I think that the current method has the fewest and the least bad side effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113459	Thank you. Sir. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113502	The latter, I think, was a very interesting consideration, because in this respect Mr. Magnus Heunicke certainly does not agree with one of Denmark's leading election professors, Jørgen Elklit, who just says that there are pluses and minuses in different models, and there are also in connection with these two. That's what Mr. Magnus Heunicke, of course, too, but Jørgen Elklit also says that there are methods that are better and more reasonable in relation to the D'Hondt method, compared to when comparing the number of votes and the distribution of seats. So when it comes to the electoral law, Magnus Heunicke in any case completely disagrees with one of the country's leading electoral scientists. Then I simply cannot understand why it is more reasonable that a party that has received less than 50% should have a majority of seats and not vice versa. We have, for example. in the proposal here that a calculation has been made from Brøndby, where it is the rapporteur's party that sits with the majority of 10 seats out of 19 but where, if it had been distributed by the largest fraction method, the decimal method, it was actually only entitled to 8 seats. I do not understand why the rapporteur says that there are such great advantages to the model that we have now when there are both experts and figures saying the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113617	I have also read the critical articles and seen that there is research that is critical of the D'Hondt method, and it is also relevant to question it, but I have not seen a clear recommendation from these experts, for example. of the proposal put forward by DF. However, it may be that the proposers have, and now I can also understand that DF itself can see that perhaps there are some things for which an amendment is to be made. So this probably suggests that yes, one can easily problematize the systems that exist and one should do so all the time, but it is just not so easy and so straightforward to say that then let's trade it out with something else. Because there are some other side effects. I have mentioned part of it myself, namely that with the largest party and the split of party lists in order to maximise the number of seats. I believe that this is completely understated in the debate and it may be a consequence which I believe will make it a completely incalculable situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113718	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113719	I just have to point out that there is an article from Frederiksborg Amts Avis from 2005 under the heading "Expert: Need new electoral system', where Jørgen Elklit points out that there are more disadvantages to the system we have today than the opposite. And I would just like to make a comment, because it sounded almost like the rapporteur, as if the electoral federations could solve all the problems. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that the seats in the electoral federations are also distributed according to the largest fraction method and that, therefore, this is also always the largest party that will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113755	At any rate, there is now a new amendment, and we now have some ambiguity as to what is within the electoral union and how to distribute it. I am also looking forward to the committee reading of this. We must, of course, have a problematisation of the current system, I am in favour of that, but we also need to look at the consequences that it will have if we change it as significantly as this is, and I think that is unfortunately understated in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113830	Thank you. So there are no more brief comments. Sir. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330113839	Thank you to the proposers for the proposal to amend the law on municipal and regional elections, namely whether the Dutch method should be replaced by the largest fraction method for calculating the mandates. I think that a great deal of commitment and insight is revealed in relation to the dilemmas associated with whether to choose one method or another. I think that the debate has a bit of a black-and-white character, because I really think that the proposers have a completely different nuanced approach in describing it. It says precisely: 'Unfortunately, there are disadvantages in most methods of distribution, including the largest fraction method. Then there's no reason to make this sound like the one system we have today, which we've probably had since 1909... nearest to us is undemocratic, and that the biggest fraction method is pure democracy. For it is with democracy that when people have to choose, their vote must be translated into some representatives, and unless one is in the very, very unimaginable situation, it is right on the decimal point 1:1 that is to be elected 25, and they all get a 25th part of the votes • there will be situations that are undemocratic. I can as many thought situations as are mathematically possible about the largest fraction method as you can about the d'Hondt method. Then you are very concerned that it is the case that the D'Hondt method is undemocratic, that is, the method that we have had since 1909 and democratic with the largest fraction method. We cannot guard against cases that seem inappropriate in a choice. We cannot guard against it, because it may seem inappropriate for some that a party has chosen to have a priority party list. Here people will ask: Can it be true that the man who stood as No. 10, not elected, although he received more votes than the one who stood as no. 1 or No Two who got all the list votes? That possibility is there today. That is not very clear from the debate, but I must promise that it would be a major democratic problem if, in relation to the proposal that we were dealing with under an earlier item on the agenda, we were elected with fewer personal votes. I am just saying: do not pull all the arguments with what is democratic and undemocratic out of the drawer. There are among the proposers parties who consistently or at least to some extent make use of this. One can also discuss whether it is democratic if two members of the Danish People's Party, after a constitution, resign from the party and switch to another party. No, it's beating undemocratic. Is there anything we can do about it? No. Now I mentioned the Danish People's Party, but I could have mentioned all parties, I think, because there are examples of this in all parties. When Mr. Magnus Heunicke is then asked whether the electoral federation always benefits the largest party, it is true that it is most often, but not always. There are plenty of examples, for example: A left vote has gone to a conservative in the electoral union, which has pointed to a red. Is it democratic? No. Is that how it is? Yeah. What I want with this is to say that there are pros and cons. I think that is described frankly. We have weighed them down in the Left and we believe that the advantages of the current system are the ones that weigh most. But it is quite nuanced because there are also drawbacks to the present system, just as there will be in the proposal for the largest fraction method. Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry to have to say hello to the Conservatives and say they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114333	Fine. There are just a few brief comments. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114337	Thank you. I would like to go back a little to get the nuances, as the rapporteur says. Let us now take a random municipality where there are some small parties. Often we see more and more local lists too. It may have a bit to do with this, that you're a little tired of the old established parties and something like that because out in a municipality it's not the big, chromed political visions that matter, because there's something more earthy and close to the citizen that matters. In the random municipality four Leftmen are elected in the usual way, and then a local list actually gets a really good choice, but it's a little tilting, and then the fifth Leftman comes in. The four Liberals, who are naturally elected, may well represent those who have voted for the policies of the Left and the Left, but all the citizens who have voted on a local list or a small party that is not even represented on the city council will have no vote whatsoever to speak for the citizen in these citizen-related matters. What does the rapporteur think is most democratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114444	I have responded to that in my speech, or at least I have tried to do so. There are advantages and disadvantages to both systems, but what is most democratic is that you get someone elected. Then you can make examples, and that is what the rapporteur is doing. I could give you another example. A majority of citizens point to the Danish People's Party, but they do not get a majority of the seats. All other parties outside the Danish People's Party agree that it should not be the Danish People's Party, which is why it will not be a representative of the Danish People's Party who will be the mayor, despite the fact that a majority of citizens meant it. It is certainly not democratic either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114530	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114532	Then we can go back to the examples from Brøndby, where there are ten Social Democrats. They can choose to take power on their own without having received the support of 50 per cent. by the citizens of Brøndby Municipality. I wouldn't call that democratic either. But it is not only the mayor's chains that I am thinking of, because I am also thinking of the fact that, in the daily lives of a local community, there is a need for representatives, whether they are on the mayor's side or whether they are in opposition, who can speak the citizen's case in certain cases, but there will not be, and that is where I believe democracy is failing very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114619	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114619-2	In her previous speech, the rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Eilersen, said that there will be more and more local lists. I would like to see evidence of this because I have a different view, that is to say that this is not the case. Let it go. There the rapporteur can help me to reach a higher level of information. In relation to the point of rather supporting the many small ones rather than supporting the large ones, I would say that I understand the thinking perfectly well, and that is one of the dilemmas in relation to blocking limits, and what do I know? I fully understand. And some electoral lists cannot be elected, even if they get more votes than another local list that can because it is part of an electoral union. These are some of the dilemmas. But what we are talking about is that there are advantages and disadvantages, and I recognise all the examples of the disadvantages, and I would ask you to understand that I have then tried to outline the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114718	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114721	I just need to confirm that the Left and the Left rapporteur think it is fairer for a party to convert it into mandates with decimals • which receive votes equivalent to 10.4 seats, to have the 11th mandate, rather than a party that gets 0.6%, to have 0 seats. Does the Left believe that the most just thing is that it is the largest party that is being rewarded?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114748	No, I didn't say that. I have just said that there are pros and cons. It's a dilemma. One might ask what the main advantage and main disadvantage is. Is the greatest democratic problem that those who have been pointed out by a majority can be put completely outside? Hopefully, we all agree that this could be a problem. But is it an even greater problem or a minor problem or the same problem that a minority can sit on the majority? That's what this is all about. That is why there are pros and cons to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114828	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114830	Then I think that the rapporteur of the Left has misunderstood at least half of this debate. So it is not a question of who has the majority or not. There is therefore a question of allocating all the seats. For example: If you count on what is equal to 0.6 seats, the small parties will only have 0, while a large party with 10.4 will be rounded up to 11 seats. So it's also part of this debate. Already at the last reading a few years ago, the Socialist People's Party stated that it might well be that there was a party that had received more than half of the votes, but not the majority of the seats. In fact, many parties in here said that we should look at it and get that valve in. We would still like to look at getting it in, if that is the big problem for the rapporteur of the Left and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114918	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114920	I recognise that the questioner may take the view that I have misunderstood when I point out whether a majority/minority can obtain a majority. But may I point out so quietly that three, four times, reference has been made to a case from a municipality where a minority has delivered a majority in the city council. I guess I didn't get that wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330114949	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments or questions. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330115000	Thank you. As one of the co-authors, I would like to confirm the nuanced approach contained in the comments on the motion for a resolution. I think I did the same when we last discussed it here in the Folketing. It is obvious that there are pros and cons of both methods of calculation. They are actually very well described here. So the political issue we have to take a position on is who we want to favour: the large or small parties? That is one of the main problems in that discussion. How should you make that choice? It should not be based on some party selfish position, i.e. whether you are today a small party with no hope of getting bigger or whether you are a large party with no concern about whether you can ever be smaller. That's not how we're supposed to deal with it. We must deal with this in the light of an assessment of what will be best for democracy. As we were last discussing this, we are of the opinion that it would be best to choose an electoral method which, in a given situation, favours the smaller parties and does not favour the large parties in such a way as has been highlighted here, namely that a consequence may be that a party which has a minority of the electorate behind it can nevertheless obtain a majority in the municipal council and sit down in power to put it bluntly. We do not think this is good for democracy. Now that we have an option to do this in a different way, we do not think that the choice can be so difficult. I am not saying that the current method automatically leads to the promotion of power-breaking and self-sufficiency, etc. I'm just saying it can lead to it. That in itself is a democratic problem. This seems to us to be a bigger problem than the other method: a party with a majority of the electorate will not be reflected in the majority of the municipal council. We recognise that as a democratic problem. There are democratic problems in both models, and it is for the simple reason that there is no method of calculation which can ensure complete justice in this area and, if it existed, it would have been invented and applied long ago. I'm sure of it. So we do not think it is an equal or greater problem for democracy that, in a given situation, a party which has obtained a majority of the electorate cannot obtain a majority of the seats. Why isn't it? This is a much smaller problem for democracy, because this party still has the opportunity, through negotiations with other parties, to obtain a majority for some points of view they stand for. They'll probably have quite a lot of opportunities to do that. This will then mean that the majority of voters who reflected will, in any other reasonable form, be able to be reflected in the municipal council, albeit in the form of compromises which we otherwise welcome in the Danish folk regime. So we don't really think the elections are that difficult. However, we recognise, of course, that there are various other approaches to this. Then there is another relationship that has not been affected. A consequence of this greatest fraction method may be that a lot that represents a little less than 1%. By the voters, come to the municipal council. We do not think that is a problem. We think it is beneficial to democracy, because that means that the views of these, albeit relatively few, voters, will be represented in the political debate anyway. We have the basic view that it is positive. To put it a little more square, we're opposed to those block limits. So we think that is also a positive element in this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that we are entering the committee procedure with an open mind. As co-author, I am interested to know what amendment our fellow Members are going to table here. We will have to discuss this further. But it is clear that it can be improved, so that perhaps some of the disadvantages that are certainly also associated with the method we are proposing here can be minimized, is very good. So I look forward to a good debate on this motion for a resolution in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330115444	Thank you. No one has any comments. Then I will take the last rapporteur before lunch. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330115452	Thank you. I will be brief, and I would like to be perfectly honest and say that there are a great many good elements in this resolution. However, as everyone knows, the government speaks as a college with a voice, and that is why, in view of the Minister's arguments and the dilemmas mentioned, I reject the proposal of the Liberal Alliance. I think that a great many things have been turned around, and I do not know whether the latter are getting out of the debate, one might imagine that. It is a very technical proposal and I do not know whether new models can be devised. Otherwise, however, my view is that the insecurity between what is being voted and what comes out of it with mandates on the other end is much more influenced by the electoral federations that are part of me have tried it so many times. Bottomline means much, much more than choosing one method or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330115604	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll go on at 9:00. 1:00 p.m. after lunch with mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130006	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue the debate on draft parliamentary resolution No. B 70. We are in the course of the rapporteur's work, and we are giving the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is the rapporteur. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130024	Thank you very much. We have discussed quite in detail whether we should use the Danish or the largest fraction calculation method in relation to municipal and regional elections. So I won't go deep into it again. As I said, we have been very detailed about this. What I want to say is that the Dutch method seems to favour the large parties a little in municipal and regional elections, while the largest fraction seems to favour the small parties and the local lists a little. In the alternative, we want diversity in our democracy • we like small parties, we like local lists, we like diversity. That is why we support this proposal, which will benefit the small parties from the unfairness we have discussed, which is at both angles, in both points of view. So we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130128	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sanne Bjørn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130143	Thank you. As several rapporteurs before me have said, the various methods have advantages and disadvantages. Some of them have been accounted for, so I shall spare you that here, but just say that it is absolutely right that when you are part of an electoral union, it is in an attempt to reduce the voting waste. We can choose to do this for technical reasons alone, but we do, in fact, believe that it is very difficult to see through for the citizen who has to vote, that is to say when it is a technical union, without having to deal with the political issue. This is something that is being considered in the parties in order to reduce the loss of votes. So, in my opinion, there is a democratic problem. We are, of course, doing so to ensure that smaller parties do not lose those votes because they tend to give out very expensive mandates because of the method. So if you have to look at it in such a context of openness, I would say that there is a lot to be said for this fractional method to simplify it for the individual. Then there is the question of whether there will be large parties who will do something else. That is something to be discussed, but bottom line I would say that the Radical Left is in favour of this proposal. This will benefit smaller parties to a degree that is not the case today. And this wasting of votes, that is to say that smaller parties cast disproportionate votes, will be prevented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130323	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130332	SF is the co-sponsor of this proposal, which, as I said, is about whether to use the d'Hondt method or the largest fraction method in municipal and regional elections when counting the votes. It is true that this is a very technical proposal and, as the Minister has also said, it is a question of whether you want marginally more votes for the largest parties or marginally more votes for the smallest parties. As I have already said, these are also inaccurate methods of counting, but in the name of diversity and democracy, the protection of minorities makes sense from my point of view. That is why we are co-sponsors of this proposal and, in fact, we hope that it may have some sort of support, perhaps through the amendment that I am listening to Mrs Susanne Eilersen intend to table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130436	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors. This is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130449	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for an exciting debate here today. I would like to thank both Enhedslisten and SF for being co-sponsors here today, and also for the support of some of the other and smaller parties that I have heard. It is not surprising, however, that the outcome we are seeing today is not surprising, and I have to say that when small parties go into government, they often change their policies on some points, and that is also true in this area. I cannot sing, but I will quote from former Prime Minister Jens Otto Krag that you have a position until you take a new one. But let it go. The resolution sounds like something purely technical, but it is actually about the core of our democracy. Much has been said about who will benefit from this and who will not, and it is absolutely for large parties that the d'Hondt method is maintained. In order for me to be able to give a good explanation, I have in fact been looking at a quote from one of the Minister's speeches, i.e. when the Minister was the municipal rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance back in 2013, when the proposal was last discussed. At the time, the rapporteur said that the purpose of the proposal we are debating today is therefore to achieve as far as possible proportionality between the way in which the electorate votes and the way in which the mandates are distributed in each municipal council. We believe that this would be best for local democracy, and it would also mean that not so many electoral groups would be represented by a vote, as is the case today. I could not have been more in agreement with the Minister, that is, at the time the Minister was a municipal rapporteur, nor could I have said it in a better way. After all, the problem is that the small parties and local lists, which have received the support of a number of citizens in elections, do not have a representative who takes care of their interests and political views in the municipal council. Finally, I should also like to mention that in a parliamentary election the supplementary mandates are distributed according to the largest fraction method, and I have heard no one displeased about that. As we have talked to earlier today, I will see if we can draw up an amendment. I will then send that out to the co-sponsors of the other two parties to see if we can agree on it, and we will then try to put it forward. I look forward to a good committee reading and I can promise that the Danish People's Party will continue this debate, whether the Danish People's Party is small or large as it is today, or we will join a government. Thank you very much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130744	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330130807	Since matters have progressed rapidly, we need the Minister of Transport right now. I can inform you that he has been called, so we shall postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131205	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131232	Thank you very much. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for complying with his driving-rest-time clause, so that he is also here when the rest of us start. After all, it is driving-rest time, this proposal is about, and it is about people who get into trouble, because in some areas there have been some equally zealous rules • some rules, which of course have been made, because we want to make sure against cheating, want to ensure that there is the best possible road safety, and avoid those who sit tired drivers behind the wheel. Yet you have had some rules made, where when you look at how they work in practice, you can think that it has probably just become the number too zealously. I have here a specific case, a specific human destiny, one can actually say where 3F has a member, a freight driver. I'm here with his specific name, but there's no reason why it should come out we could call him Preben, just as they do in the Mads & Monopole on Saturdays. Preben's still missing the freight driver, but back at this point he was at another company. He's out driving, and at some point he gets made a mistake, he doesn't get the right thing on the tachograph, in terms of whether he's doing other work or whether he's taking a rest. What is happening is that he has changed the company and started working elsewhere, and suddenly he gets a request that a mistake has been found. It is a mistake that lies behind several months, when one has been looking at up to several days when he has been driving, and then one mistake has been found. So you dive into this, because what Preben is facing is pretty serious. He is in a position to obtain a conditional refusal of his driving licence, and he is in a position to receive a substantial fine. As you go in from 3F's side and look at this specific case, you can see that the day he makes the mistake, it's in and for himself he doesn't make a mistake. What has happened is that his normal truck is in the workshop and that is why he has been provided with another truck. This other truck is calibrated in the tachograph so that when you turn off the ignition, it goes to other work instead of going on rest. And he does not think about that, because he has been driving several days, several months, several years with a truck where it rests when you turn off the ignition. The small mischief then means that he stands to obtain a conditional disqualification of his driving licence, while at the same time he gets a considerable fine. This kind of small human error, or you could say accidental events that are involved in this case with Preben, becomes a number too zealously. And there we on the Social Democratic side are pleased that the Ministry of Transport, with the former Transport Minister and now with the new one, is willing to be in dialogue with the industry. It is the trade union 3F, but it is also the road haulage organisations. Widely in the industry, it is agreed that something has to happen in relation to making a regulation in this area, which is a little more in proportion to what it is actually about. So in concrete terms, the proposal here proposes to try to modulate the amount of the fine so that the amount of the fine is more in proportion to what the error was actually made. It makes sense. It cannot be that a truck driver must meet at work with a stomach ache and be nervous about whether he or she is going to make a mistake along the way. So it is fair that there should be a proportion here. In addition, if you get to where you lose the right to drive, you lose the right to drive a truck or a bus, but you do not lose the right to drive a private car. So there is something quite unreasonable about making a mistake at work, and then you are also punished in an area where it can prevent you from driving to and from another job or taking the family on holiday or even driving civilianly. So it's positive too. It is also intended to remove the requirement for a controlling driving test. But you do relevant courses, so instead of being punished and coming down with your neck, you learn something you can use. It is a good, constructive line that has been put here. You set a ceiling on how much you can get in fines equivalent to one month's pay. Here it has been calculated at 30,000 a month and then twice as much for the companies. That is also positive. We have noted from the Socialist side that the National Police have some clearing questions or some suggestions for clarification, and we will pursue this in the committee's work. But basically we think it is a good and a positive proposal, listening to Preben and all the other drivers and ensuring that it is not zealous and inappropriate rules that give a really bad working environment in the everyday life of these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131751	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131758	Yes, like the Socialist rapporteur, I also have a great deal of sympathy for Preben and equals, who, for various reasons, misservice, a little sloppy, a little inattentive, and what it may be, sometimes run into a number of heavy penalties in the form of heavy fines, perhaps even the disqualification of driving licences. That is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is, of course, that there are a great many drivers and hauliers in the industry who are trying to find all the loopholes they can find in the rules at all, and it is clear that when the rules are complicated, they have a better water to swim in, you can almost say. And it can be said that tough sanctions, after all, seem preventative. Does the Socialist rapporteur not agree with me on this, and how is the balance found here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330131852	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Henning Hyllested, is absolutely right that there are ordinary drivers who come into work and make a stupid human mistake, and then they get with the big hammer, and that's unfair. In this case of Preben, it is not even a mistake he makes, but simply an accidental incident, i.e. the truck is set differently than it used to be, so it is quite unreasonable that he is being punished so hard. But yes, we have also seen some boring examples of clever types trying to cheat on the driving-rest-time clause in order to score a bigger win. But there's also the bill here that if somebody sneaks up on this system with evil ulterior motives, you're gonna find the big stick so they're gonna get a proper punishment. The National Police have asked some clear questions and have some requests for clarification, and we in the Socialist Group, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, would have liked to have deepened and clarified and worked on this, because we have exactly the same position as Mr Tugendhat. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten. If anyone is deliberately cheating or systematically scamming this, they must be punished so they can feel it too for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132007	I fully agree with that, and I agree that we need to deepen the very, very comprehensive consultation answers of the National Police and Public Prosecutor and many of the questions they are asking. With regard to sanctions, I would like to say that I find it problematic that sanctions should also be relaxed for what are called very serious offences, which are also suitable for preventing controls. And there is actually a dispute about that in the consultation note between the National Police and the Attorney General and the Ministry of Transport. But summa summarum is, at least for the time being, that sanctions are being relaxed, that the penalties are being imposed, that drivers are committing very serious infringements, even if this is in order to prevent controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132056	I would like to welcome two things in this context, on the one hand, and the fact that we have a procedure in the Danish Parliament in which we can correct possible errors in committee and, on the other hand, that we have been so skilful and committed to a rapporteur such as Mr Beazley's report. Henning Hyllested, whom I am sure will be able to strike down where there are some holes, and of course we need that to get it right, so that we don't just get a bill that alleviates the penalty for these poor people, but also ensures that none of these cunning people get away with it easily. So, thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested to pay attention to these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132131	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, so we will thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132140	Thank you. As a starting point, the Danish People's Party thinks it's good that we get a look at these relaxations. It is not so much a reduction in fines that concerns us, because we all have to remember and remind each other that we made these driving rest-time rules at some point, because there was simply a massive cheating in the industry with the resultant poor road safety, bad working conditions, etc. etc. I just think we should remember to remind each other of that. When Mr. Rasmus Prehn says here poor people who are fined, I would say that you usually only get a fine if you have broken the law. Then I know that there have been, what to say, a certain number of stupid fines in the old system, and I am glad that we are looking at that because I really think it is important to look at the reason why you are being fined and then perhaps simplify it, and that is what we are doing with this proposal. On the other hand, I entirely agree that when you have made a mistake, the hammer must also fall. And now that we're relaxing these rules, I would certainly like to send the signal to the industry that I'm ready to tighten the rules again if the industry doesn't understand this message, because it's still about road safety. One of the things I think is really good in this proposal is, of course, that you are not just so beaten back to the Stone Age because you have lost the right to drive your truck for a short period of time. So you can still drive son to school in the car. I think it is very good that this element is included, and also as Mr. Rasmus Prehn also mentioned that it will be easier to regain your driving licence again. So there are many good elements, but I can see that there are also some thistles in it, as Mr. Henning Hylllested was a little bit into it. We can then see if we can try to pick up during the committee work. But as a starting point, I think there is a good foundation for further work, so the Danish People's Party is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132344	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left. That's it, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132357	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to start by stating that this is a very good legislative proposal. One of the good things about the bill is the creation of it, because I think it is very much based on the real world. We sometimes see some legislative proposals being put forward in here, which are such of a more theoretical nature. This is in great harmony with reality. One of the first things I learned when I joined the army was that if you stand and look out over a landscape with a map and the map doesn't fit with the landscape, then you have to choose the landscape, i.e.. The world of reality. That is also the case when we make legislation. And that's exactly what we're doing here. Here, the Minister and his predecessor have been in close dialogue with the industry, with road haulage organisations, with drivers' organisations, and have found that the current sanctions in relation to the driving rest-time rules are partly disproportionate. That, then, is what we are correcting here. It is of no use that a driver is afraid to go to work in the morning and to come home and tell his wife in the evening that he has lost his driving licence to his private car because he has come to make a minor offense with the truck, or that he comes home with a large fine which can then make the family not go on vacation. There are some unfairness and some unfair fines in the current legislation. I would like to stress that what we are talking about here is not, of course, that we are changing the rules on driving rest time. They are common to the whole of Europe. They're very important. They help to strengthen road safety, so we do not have any tired truck drivers driving large cars on the roads, but they also help to ensure that no one can make a profit by jumping over where the fence is lowest. It is therefore important that these rules are there and that they are respected and enforced, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned. But what we are specifically going to look at are the minor wrongdoings. So here we go in and adjust the fines slightly downwards. And as Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned, it may well be that the preventive effect is a little less when the fines are slightly smaller. I now think that the fines that are here are enough to ensure that infringements are not deliberately committed. One thing is certain: in the case of serious infringements, we do not change the fact that the sledgehammer should fall. And it has to fall hard if you deliberately defraud the driving-rest-time rules. We have, for example. previously seen examples of mounting magnets on the gearbox to completely disable the driving-rest-time rules. This is incredibly serious and the sledgehammer must fall very hard, and it will continue to do so in the future. So it is for the less serious offenses that we are now adjusting the fines. I am also pleased that we are setting a fine ceiling for these offences, so that the ceiling becomes an average monthly salary for a driver. With the present system, it can even be very expensive for a driver. That is a reasonable ceiling, and I am also very pleased that we are now saying that it is therefore the driving licence for the truck that can be lost if you make offences, and not the driving licence for your private car. All in all, this is a very good legislative proposal, in which we come into more reasonable agreement with the real world as it is out there. And we distinguish between the slightly unintended wrongdoings that have given some stupid fines in the past, and the serious wrongdoings where the hammer has to fall hard on this area. So the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132731	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132735	First of all, many thanks to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen just to pour out some of his military experience. It's always rewarding. I would like to say that we are quite prepared to follow the terrain. One of the good things about this proposal is that there has been a close dialogue with the interest groups in this area, those who know where the shoe is printing, and that we will then actually implement it and have legislation that is better in this area. It is parliamentary work at its best. Now it is that we have become aware that in the hearings there are some objections from among others. The National Police. There I shall hear the rapporteur of the Left, whether the rapporteur of the Left, together with the rest of us, will be involved in the work of the committee in looking at this matter a little more closely, so that we avoid what they are warning us about, namely that some of the preventive effect will disappear and that we will be clarified in some places. Can we have a constructive dialogue about it, can we also follow the terrain there in relation to the objections of the Kingdom police?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132837	The answer is yes. Of course, we must have turned and turned every stone in connection with the committee work. It's all nature in it, so a clear commitment to it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132848	Then I just want to thank you for that. We will continue the committee work, so thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132854	Yeah, fine. I look forward to good cooperation, including in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132858	Yeah. And the next brief remark is from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132902	A little on the same street, of course: is a very serious offense which is suitable to prevent control, one of those who must be severely hit, because it is here that the bill lays down for relaxation for the driver?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132918-2	It is clear that the limit goes where one can say that it is trivial offences, where one can make some mistakes, etc., and then where it is deliberate cheating and fraud. The last category I have nothing left for. That's where we're going to strike, and that's the border line that's been tried out here. I look forward to, as the Enhedslisten also suggests, that we will have this drilled out a little more in committee work. I think that is a fine starting point for the government, but I fully agree that we are working it out a little more to find the right cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330132952	Yes, I am, of course, pleased about that, because it is one of the places where I believe that the legislative proposal lags. It was more because Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen started by commending the bill as a very good proposal. However, I welcome the comment that this is a starting point and that we need to find the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133008	Very much agree. I maintain my praise for the bill, because I think it is good that we take care of this. It is liberating when we politicians sometimes take up something we have done a few years ago, and when we then, after contact with the real world, recognise that we have probably gone a little too hard on this, or here we need to adjust, and we actually do so. So that's why it's a good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133029	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133045	Thank you. If only the bill had been about simplifying the rules for driving-rest-time, we would have been very long, but they are not. Those rules are laid down in an EU regulation and therefore they cannot be changed unless you can obtain a majority to change them in the EU, and that is well enough uphill. The rules are, in my opinion, a true jungle. We have a daily driving time of 9 hours. No, we don't have that anyway, because 10 hours can be taken twice a week. We have a break in 45 minutes. No, because it can be split into breaks in 15 minutes and 30 minutes. We have a regular rest in 11 hours. No, we have a reduced rest of 9 hours three times between two weekly rests. We have a weekly rest of 45 hours. No, we have 24 to 45 hours plus some compensation in the form of rest periods, which must then be taken as an extension of a later daily or weekly rest. Wow, you get all sweaty, and this is kind of just the simplest parts of the rules that are so modified. And then I have not mentioned the jungle in question with regard to the sanctions for short breaks, the so-called Article 7 rules with tolerance limits and accumulation of driving time, when the breaks have been too short, so that they are recorded as not being held at all or not being recorded as breaks. And there's a relaxation circular that's been inside. Fortunately, this is now being abolished. On the other hand, the penalty is halved in these cases. It is quite clear that the many modifications to the rules created to ensure the safety and health of drivers, to avoid tired and unattractive drivers, and thus also to ensure road safety, have been made to meet the companies' demands to use the truck and, of course, also the driver as efficiently as possible, so that it becomes as cheap as possible. But when the rules on driving-rest-time do not stand to change, you have to resort to changing the sanctions, and that is what is being done with this bill. Therefore, the fines are considerably reduced in the three old categories of infringements. Even, as I have mentioned in my questions, in the category of very serious infringements which affect control, the fine is reduced from DKK 4 000. for 3,000 kroner. for the driver, while the fine of DKK 6,000. well enough maintained for the company. In fact, we are concerned about this in the Enhedslisten. We are fully aware that the complicated rules are, of course, the cause of some misservice by the tachograph. The other is due to sloppyness, neglect, inattentiveness, etc., and these less serious offences can give rise to very large fines if a break or a rest is suddenly not a break or a rest anyway because it has become too short. Then the infringements of the driving-rest-time rules suddenly become serious, although in some cases the total driving time has not been exceeded at all. So perhaps in the EL we could help to ease the sanctions for the less serious and serious offenses, but extending the rules to the very serious offenses, even those which can be used to prevent the control of the rules, is going too far. Here we will probably try to table some amendments. Although we naturally have sympathy for the many drivers and road hauliers who are trying to run a sober business without deliberate cheating, truck transport is characterised by a large number of, let us just call them bandits, both drivers and road hauliers, who are circumventing the rules, thereby undermining the drivers' working environment and thus becoming a threat to road safety and pushing the entire industry into an unhealthy and unfair competition, in which the law-abiding companies and drivers are being pushed out of the market in the end. In fact, the bandits are fine with complicated rules, which are difficult to understand and difficult to sanction. I think tough sanctions have a certain preventive effect here. I think it is worth noting here that the National Police state that the proposed relaxations for both drivers and companies may lead to a weakening of the preventive effect of the rules. I would like to say that in my opinion is a raised index finger. On the whole, I believe that the response of the Kingdom Police and the Public Prosecutor, who are the real experts in the field of control and enforcement, gives rise to serious consideration. I think that there are many places where there is a raised index finger, and the Ministry of Transport has had to change and clarify the comments in many places as a result of the objections from the National Police and the Public Prosecutor. With regard to the ceiling on fines, I think that this question can be raised, as does the Attorney General, whether the argument of proportionality for drivers also applies to the company, in view of the fact that the company generates an additional profit, by the fact that the rest-time rules are being violated in the continuing pursuit of the truck on the road. Finally, I would like to comment on something that is not addressed in the draft law. This is the whole question of the weekly rest of 45 hours. There has been a heated debate about this over the last few months, and a lot of criticism has been raised by some road hauliers' organizations and from 3F, as it is very common for foreign drivers to spend the night in the truck, even if it is not legal, unless it is a so-called reduced weekly rest. All of a sudden, it's legal. Here we will probably also be tabling an amendment to correct it, if at all possible. We are also pleased that in future, when a driving licence is denied under the rules of overtime, driving rest time and tachograph, it will not cost the driving licence to a regular car. This means, of course, that the driver in question retains a certain amount of social mobility and may in fact also be able to maintain his job in the company or get a job in other companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133608	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133616	Thank you. After all, the whole transport sector is well regulated, and it can be quite difficult for individual road hauliers and drivers to see through the sanctions they can be imposed if they do one thing and the other, and Mr. Henning Hyllested so graphically described here from the platform. The draft law here will simplify that system and will mean that the sanctions are much more proportionate to the nature and gravity of the infringement. As we have also heard here during the debate, drivers and companies can today be subject to huge fines for infringements caused by sloppy practices, just as drivers can be fined who are completely out of proportion to their income. In order to address these problems, the bill will include: introduce a fine ceiling so that the fine is far more equitable in relation to the driver's income. Generally speaking, it can be said that the fines are relaxed for the less serious infringements of the driving-rest-time rules and the infringements caused by sloppy or forgetfulness. Finally, the draft law here will change the rules on the disqualification of driving rights so that the right to drive as a private person is no longer deprived of the right to drive as a private person when you violate the rules on driving rest time and driving with overtime in a professional context. It seems quite clearly unreasonable to lose the right to drive one's own car today because one has violated rules which say nothing about one's ability as a driver and which have nothing to do with the performance of one's profession alone. The Liberal Alliance agrees with the government that there is a need for simplification in this area. There must, of course, be a clear link between the penalties imposed on drivers and undertakings and the nature of the infringement. With these words, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133814	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Roger Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133821	Thank you for that, President. I think there has been a fine review of L 158 by the other rapporteurs, so I will not do that again. It is very positive that the bill has been drafted in close dialogue with the industry, and we can only support the fact that we are doing much more, in other words involving the citizens and the people and the relevant parties. Having said that, I also agree with the rapporteur of the DF that, when we make some concessions, we must also make sure that we still have some ground rules that will be complied with and complied with, and if they do not, we will have to see whether these reductions need to be adjusted. I therefore also agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we should look at some of the anchors that have been in the consultation answers. So we support the simplification of systems and rules. That's it, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133915	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Sanne Bjørn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330133929	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are always ready to make restrictive rules on road safety. This means, among other things, that we must ensure that drivers are not tired when driving, and that is also one of the things we are concerned with in this proposal. There must also be consistency between the rules we make and the road safety we want, and so the humane considerations about this legislation we are making in this area. If it becomes too restrictive, we are also always ready to change legislation, i.e. if the implementation of it proves inappropriate or if there is no proportionality to it. We see these proposals as quite sensible on long stretches because they take account of the fact that there are inappropriate in this law. For example, the reduction and modulation of the fine for infringement of rules with the tachograph is quite sensible. It has also proved inappropriate in the case of omissions, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. It is also very reasonable that driving licences for large vehicles and not for private cars should only be denied if, in this context, you have been convicted of an offence in the large vehicle. So all in all, we think that there's really good reason to do this proportionality, and that we're gonna change the legislation, and we're also ready to look at the discussion that's being set up by among others. The state police in the hearing answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134118	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, Mr President. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134126	For years, all parties in the industry have been asking for more transparent and more reasonable rules for penalties linked to breaches of the driving-rest-time regulations. Too often random minor mistakes and human misunderstandings have had hard consequences. There must be fairness and proportionality, and drivers must be able to go to work safely. But on the other hand, the brakes must work against those who deliberately do not want to comply with the rules or if you are sloppy with your attention. This is about, among other things. on road safety and setting up time limits for drivers' work. We should not compromise there, and that is why a severe punishment must continue to be imposed if we try to cheat deliberately. We also think it is a good thing that we are getting rid of the fact that a punishment that has been given at work can have dramatic consequences and that a driver who is out of proportion can be affected in his private life by losing his private driving licence. And we will be interested in the answers to the questions raised by the National Police on the preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134305	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Conservatives, so we move on to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134318	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. This is a bill which the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing has been working on for a long time after the initiative of the former Transport Minister Hans Christian Schmidt, and now the bill is so clear. I would like to start by emphasising that road safety considerations have had a central role in the work behind the legislative proposal. I am therefore also aware of the importance of the driving-rest-time rules for drivers to be rested and therefore sufficiently attentive and vigilant in traffic. However, I firmly believe that the sanctions in the field of driving rest time have developed in a way that is no longer always proportionate to infringements and penalties. The aim of this draft law is therefore to make the system of penalties in the field of driving rest time more proportionate and also simpler. I would like to stress that no change is being made to the rules on driving rest time itself. The draft law is merely about how much it will cost when you break the rules. And here, as I have said, we believe that the system of sanctions must make it more proportionate. In order to achieve this, we propose that the penalties for infringements of the rules on tachographs be reduced for drivers. At the same time, a new proposal is being made that fines for companies should be graduated according to the gravity of the infringements, as is the case today for drivers. With the current system of fines, drivers and companies risk very large overall fines for infringements of the rules on driving rest-time. This is because in the driving-rest-time area checks are made for periods that typically go back 28 days in time. The penalties for infringements committed during the 28 days are added together and thus become very large. We therefore propose that a ceiling be set on the amount of the total fines. The ceiling corresponds to an average monthly salary for a driver and double that for the company. At the same time, we propose that, when measuring fines for breaching the break-up rule in the driving-rest-time regulation, it should be important whether the driver has taken a break, even though the break may not be quite long enough. Today, it is not taken into account when measuring the fine whether a driver has actually taken a break if it does not comply with the starting point that the break must be at least 45 minutes. This means a little simplified that a driver, for example. has taken a 35-minute break, gets a fine as high as one who hasn't paused at all. I do not think that is fair or proportionate, and we are therefore changing that with the legislative proposal. The driver who has taken a little too short a break will therefore have to be fined less than the driver who has not paused at all. In addition to reducing certain fines and introducing a ceiling on fines, we propose the introduction of a new system of disqualification from driving rights. Today, the right to drive is denied to all categories of vehicles, regardless of the type of infringement involved. A lorry driver who has violated the rules on, for example. the use of tachograph, therefore, is also denied the driver's right to drive a regular car. Infringement of the rules governing the carriage of goods by road, driving rest time and tachograph is characterised by the fact that, as a general rule, they are carried out only as part of the professional activities of large and heavy vehicles. In addition, they do not constitute so-called driving errors. I therefore think it is far too intrusive that in these cases the right to drive should also be denied to ordinary cars. We therefore propose the introduction of a new system of disqualifications for infringement of the rules on overload, driving rest and tachograph. In the event of these infringements, the right to drive must be denied only to large and heavy vehicles. In these cases, the driver can therefore retain the driver's right to drive a regular car only if he has infringed the rules on overloading, driving rest time and tachograph. Because the right to drive large and heavy vehicles is still lost, the new disqualification system will continue to provide an important incentive for drivers to avoid infringements. It should be borne in mind here that disqualification from driving rights to the large and heavy categories would constitute a significant obstacle to the exercise of the driver's profession. I am therefore quite confident that the new system of disqualification will not have negative effects on road safety. As a new thing, we also propose that we should not go to a controlling driving test in connection with the disqualification of the driver's right to drive large and heavy vehicles. Infringement of the relevant provisions does not therefore reflect driving errors and does not say anything about the driver's ability to travel in traffic. We therefore propose that the driver should, instead, conduct courses targeted at the offences committed. I think this will help to improve road safety. Finally, the draft law contains a few changes to the conditions for driver disqualification, including an increase in the limit for infringement of the driving-rest-time provisions from 30%. 40 per cent. It will no longer be possible, under the draft law, to disqualify the right to drive in the event of a breach of the rules on breaks. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the good and constructive debate. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134915	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330134919	Thank you very much. I fully share the Minister's view that there has been a good and constructive debate in this Chamber today, so I would also like to thank the Minister for that. It is also positive that we are in close dialogue with the industry in order to have an arrangement in this area that, like our good colleague Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says is more in the terrain with what is reality out there. In his speech here, the Minister mentions that he is sure that it will not have a negative impact on road safety, and that is what we others hope for, and that is also what we others are calling for our support for this proposal. However, as we had a debate about a little earlier today, the National Police have made some suggestions for clarification, and they have asked some questions and such things. Could the Minister perhaps elaborate a little about how he and the Ministry view the objections and suggestions of the National Police?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135021	We will have to look into this in the further examination of the draft law. I would just like to point out that there is time, for example. It has been said that the penalties are being relaxed, that is to say a new category which increases the penalties for the most serious infringements. What we used to call very serious offences is thus split, so that for the milder offences in that category there will be a slightly lower penalty for the driver • the penalty will be reduced from DKK 4,000 to DKK 3,000. The more serious in that category are given a new category, which is called the most serious offenses, and the penalty is increased from DKK 4,000 to DKK 6,000. for the driver and from DKr 6,000 to DKr 12,000. in the case of the undertaking. So it is true that for some of the minor infringements there will be a lower penalty, while for the very serious infringements there will be a considerably higher penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135122	This is entirely in line with what I said myself in my rapporteur's speech, because that is also my view of this. Still, I need to hear about something. With regard to the ceiling being imposed on fines, I would say that we have great sympathy for this, at least in the case of drivers. But is there any chance that there will be a ceiling on the size of the fines imposed by companies having the effect of perhaps speculating on them? Do you have any analysis of it, or have you considered it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135155	No, but I can add with the information that it is not the case that the company's ceiling is absolutely DKr 60 000. If you have three drivers who violate the law, it could be 3 times 60 000, i.e. 180,000, so these are quite substantial fines that companies can face.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135217	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135220	It was to the Minister's statement that the very serious violations are being divided into the most serious and then into the milder violations, as the Minister said. Yes, I wrote that down, that is, the milder parts of the very serious violations. Yeah, that's how it was. I'm sorry. However, in the case of the milder ones, the draft law also provides for infringements which are appropriate to prevent controls. There is also a reduction in the penalty for the driver not for the company, that is right. That is at least what I am concerned about. I understand that the Minister is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135311	You have to see it as one category of very serious infringements in the past, and then you had one penalty for everyone, whether they belonged to the milder part of that category or to a harder part of that category. Now we are going to lower the penalty for drivers a little at the milder end of that category, while we are going to increase quite considerably in the rougher part of that category. So instead of having an average penalty, you now have a distinction between whether it is very serious or most serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135354	I'm gonna go to something completely different. I think I am going a little wrong with the bill itself now, but I would like to hear a comment on the fact that the European Union is on the way with a road transport package. I can't really tell you if anything's going on in this area. You keep hearing that there may be. So I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this, not least in relation to the developments that have taken place, because one of the Advocates-General of the European Court of Justice has recently announced that if those weekly rests are not kept outside the truck, he will at least strike with the big hammer and recommend fines of EUR 30.000. Was that a way forward in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135436	I need to dive into that more so that I can respond properly to Mr. Henning Hyllested's question. But I would also like to do so if Mr. Henning Hyllested asks the question in writing to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135448	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135520	The debate is open, and we shall give the floor to the Minister for Taxation first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330135540	We are dealing today with four motions for resolutions from the Alternative. They are all about strengthening the framework conditions for entrepreneurs by relaxing the tax rules. I would like to start by acknowledging that the Alternative, like the three parties that make up the government, wants to work towards a stronger entrepreneurial culture in Denmark. This also applies to the alternative's proposal to introduce an investor allowance which makes it easier for entrepreneurs to obtain the necessary risk capital. In this context, the alternative suggests that, under certain conditions, persons investing in small, unlisted enterprises should be allowed to deduct 50%. of their investment up to an amount limit of DKK 650,000. The deduction is intended as an equational deduction, and the tax saving, that is, what you had to save in taxes, if you invest up to this DKK 650,000, will be in the vicinity of DKK 90,000 if you did this in 2017. There should be no doubt that good framework conditions for entrepreneurs, and especially for growth companies, are heartblood for the government and, incidentally, for me personally. We need a dynamic and innovative business environment, and that is the backbone of our economy and the prerequisite for prosperity and common welfare. These are the jobs that are created and the tax revenue that results from the jobs both in corporate tax payments and in direct taxes and in indirect taxes as a result, among other things. taxes. Therefore, it must also be easier and more attractive than it is today for entrepreneurs to try out new ideas and start up their own business. After the final phase, entrepreneurship must be able to change gear and grow large. This is one of the challenges we have in Denmark. We have plenty of entrepreneurial businesses, but we have problems getting them to grow beyond the level of entrepreneurs and become really big businesses. There we have a common challenge. This requires, among other things, that: capital, and therefore this investor allowance, as the alternative is now proposing, was also included in the former Left Government's growth plan from August last year. Fortunately, there is now no copyright on politics, which is why we have no problem with the alternative raising the proposal here today and reminding the new, wider government of the excellent proposal made by the narrow Left Government last August. For these are some ideas we share with the other two parties in government: the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. That is why we have also announced growth initiatives in the government base, which include: to facilitate the tax burden on entrepreneurs and improve access to risk capital for SMEs and start-ups. There are so many ways to do that. One possibility is to introduce an investor allowance, which is one of them. has in Sweden. Another possibility is to take advantage of the opportunities for crowdfunding and microfinance opened up by technological developments. Some of the growth initiatives will be targeted entrepreneurs, while others, more generally, must ensure that it is not only cheaper but also easier to run business in Denmark. These elements aim to increase the investment of enterprises, to facilitate the opportunities for generational change and to strengthen the stock culture. In this context, I would also like to mention that the government has set up an entrepreneurship panel, i.e. some kind of committee of experts, not only with experts from the academic world but with real entrepreneurs, and the panel must constantly come up with proposals on how to make it easier and more attractive for entrepreneurs to start and, above all, grow their own business. In the work of the Growth Panel one must, among other things: look at the Swedish experience of creating new growth companies, where we have to recognise that something can be learned from Sweden in this area. The entrepreneurship panel will be made up of entrepreneurs themselves, as I have said, and the involvement of entrepreneurs here escapes quite well with my main priority as tax minister, namely to ensure that the design of framework conditions and rules takes place in dialogue with those who are now once affected by it, so that it is not only us politicians well helped by some talented officials who find out what is needed, but that we also have tested whether the ideas we have, the theories we have, the reality we have of what is needed, now also reflect what is out among them, what is really about those who are being affected. The government, I would say, although we have a positive reception of this motion for a resolution, has not at this stage determined which individual elements should be included in our growth initiatives, nor how they should be financed. The government stands by what is in the government base and that is why in the coming months we will continue to work on a number of proposals, and one of those proposals is, of course, the proposal for an investor allowance, as the alternative here points out. But what the government will present of growth initiatives and whether the investor allowance is part of it, I cannot give an undertaking here from Parliament's platform today. In summary, however, I can say that the government supports the ideas and intentions behind the Alternative's proposal, but we cannot support the proposal that by 1 April at the latest a legislative proposal should be made for the introduction of an investor allowance. It would also be difficult, and there is not much time for 1 April to get the bill drafted and put it in consultation. But the alternative, of course, has set a deadline on the resolution to put pressure on the government, and of course we are taking that down. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that, as I have said, the government is positive about ensuring initiatives that strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark, while at the same time the government is working to ensure that it is generally both cheaper and easier to operate and to be self-employed in this country. We take down this motion for a resolution and, moreover, the other motions for resolutions tabled by the Alternative as a political signal to the Government that the Alternative shares the agenda with the Government and also has a desire to be involved in the dialogue and any negotiations that may come. This is a signal that the government is taking down positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140226	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140231	Thank you for that, and thank you for the positive tactics on the part of the Minister. The Social Democratic Party has proposed a similar deduction that it should therefore be easier to invest in entrepreneurship, because we know that there can be this challenge of getting enough capital. Then the Minister mentioned that this panel of experts has been set up and that the government is going to make a few different proposals and so on, and it is of course interesting when we come together here to see that there could actually be a majority in favour of us introducing such a deduction and finding a model together. So I just want to ask the Minister if the government will call for growth negotiations where this could be an element. If so, when can we expect it to be? Since it will not be before 1 April, when can we expect the government to call for negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140328	The government will later this year present its growth initiative on how we will increase employment and how we will meet the very ambitious government base. We will, of course, seek the support of as broad a group of parties in the Folketing as possible to ensure what is a common agenda here, and if we agree with the tools that we want to use, there is, of course, a short way to reaching agreement. However, it is always the case that when, for example, you get to work. By means of light tax arrangements facilitates tax on entrepreneurship or on other things, there is a bill, because it costs something. That money must then be found together. And the first occasion where such money is to be spent or found is, of course, when it comes to discussing finance law in the autumn. That is why it is certainly an opportunity to take the debate that Mrs Lea Wermelin is calling on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140428	I cannot promise that we will agree with the government on everything, for so far at least some proposals have been made by the government, with which the Social Democrats have not agreed. But what we are discussing today, i.e. this deduction in relation to entrepreneurial enterprises, seems to have been agreed on. That is why, once again, just a call for negotiations to be called for. I am therefore surprised that the Minister is saying that the next opportunity should be in the context of negotiations on the Finance Act. We have continued in March, and there is, after all, a relatively long time for the financial legislation negotiations. Isn't the government planning on discussing growth or taking some of these negotiations before the financial law process starts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140515	I said that the government will present its growth initiatives later this year. When it is, the government must decide. And then I am sure that it will also be communicated in good time both to the public and to the parties that share the government's agenda. I cannot do it here from the speaking chair of the Folketing today, and I also think that it would be unusual to look at similar debates like this. Then, as a parenthesis, I can mention to Mrs Lea Wermelin that the narrow Left Government invited negotiations in connection with the 2025 plan, including among other things. Social democracy. And there was no great appetite for the growth agenda presented by the government in the autumn. I think that's too bad, but there wasn't. That is why we have not gone further than we are. However, we may not necessarily achieve one by one with this proposal, but with proposals that ensure that we create growth and jobs, because it is a common agenda, at least for this bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140607	Then it's mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140610	I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation for his positive words. I have a few corrections. I very much agree that there should not be copyright on proposals or opinions, but in the alternative, we actually presented this entrepreneurship package in April 2016, where this was included as a proposal. But when we had made a proposal that was even more ambitious, that is, where there was to be a deduction of 1 million. kr., and where there should be full deduction, if otherwise a sensible panel of experts could justify that both on the social and environmental bottom line there was a sensible aspect in the company, then I could see that we did not get through it right now and here by a majority. So when the previous government came up with its proposal of DKK 650,000, which did not contain any special conditions for green, sustainable companies, we thought that this must be brought together. That is why we have cut it and actually cut the green elements and focused only on entrepreneurship, because, like the Minister, we think that entrepreneurs can also show a social spirit and that it will have a sensible effect. That said, could one perhaps meet before about such a motion for a resolution, or is it quite impossible when it comes to a motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140723	No, I will not rule that out; it is not quite impossible. In other words, it is a good thing that the alternative as a new party goes to its parliamentary work in this way. During the ten years I have been in Parliament, there has been less and less focus on parliamentary work, and this is really a pity from a parliamentary point of view. This may be convenient enough for the government in office at any time, but it is fundamentally problematic for the people's regime, so the alternative to the resolution should be praised. If I look at the specific point, I can see that, in addition to the things I have mentioned, we also have a problem with funding, where the alternative is to change some deduction options in the registration fee. There is the government's agenda to lower the registration fee and not to increase it. Then the alternative wisely writes that we are also willing to discuss other sources of funding, and we will have that discussion. I cannot say here from Parliament's platform today exactly when we get it, but I can say that the government shares the agenda and would like to have a broad discussion with the parliamentary parties on how to ensure growth and development in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140834	I would also just like to make it clear that the date of 1 April is quite correct. It is precisely because it is some time since we tabled the proposals, and it is this country today, and we are very willing to extend both weeks and months to get as close to these negotiations as possible. The interesting thing for us is to find some sensible leeway in using the motions for resolutions when we are sitting and looking at a government which actually has positions on some points that are very much in line with what we stand for in the alternative. That is why this is the closest thing we could get to a kind of negotiation or a start on a response. So I hope that in the long term there can be a way in which it is possible in resolutions to actually go in and take the government's policy quite exactly and remove some of its own so that we can approach something where we have an environment where we as ministers can get to where we say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330140919	Well, I guess there's a reason for that, too. This government is looking at the resolutions that are, and in this case it is a matter of timing. In other words, even if the government had to choose to call for negotiations and had found a large bag of money or been able to gather a broad majority in the Folketing to provide a large bag of money to finance this proposal and other things, then we would only be able to adopt it in the next assembly, because such a proposal has to be consulted. So it would not be able to take effect at the earliest from the next assembly. That is why there is time to run, and that is also why I am not mentioning here from Parliament's platform today some specific date when the government is calling for negotiations, but among other things. points to the Financial Law negotiations in the autumn, when it is natural to discuss what growth initiatives should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141001	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's series. The first to speak is Mrs Lea Wermelin as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141026	Following on from the points we have discussed, I agree with the Minister when he says that entrepreneurs in Denmark are abounding. We have also been voted on time and again to be among the world's best countries to start businesses, but that does not mean that we can rest on our laurels. For even though a lot of people have an entrepreneur in their stomachs and embark on making the dream live and contribute to creating jobs in Denmark, by the company growing into larger companies, we also know that the biggest migraine of entrepreneurs, or at least one of them, is a lack of money. The Social Democrats want to help change that. Denmark has strong entrepreneurial companies, but for the vast majority they need capital in order to be able to lift up and grow stronger. That is why, in relation to the alternative resolution that we are debating today, it has the same purpose, namely to secure more funds for investment in entrepreneurship. So we fully agree with that intention, and so far so well. For from there, our paths are slightly divided, and that is because we disagree both with the funding used by the alternative in the proposal and because we have not adopted a concrete model. We have just proposed a growth initiative in which we have an increased deduction for investment in entrepreneurship and where we are also inspired by Britain and Sweden, as I hear from the panel of experts in the Minister's group. This is something that the alternative also mentions in the proposal, so I am sure we can be inspired by the same sources. However, we do not support the specific motion for a resolution. We agree with the intention and would like to help find such a model for an increased deduction for investment in entrepreneurship. That is why I would like to say in conclusion, and it is also in line with what I asked the Minister, that I really hope that what we can agree on today is to call on the Minister and the government to convene growth negotiations. And it should not be in the autumn when financial legislation is to be negotiated, but already now. For Danish economy is basically healthy. Danish companies are making progress in these years, but we also face a number of challenges if we are to be successful in the future. Some of them are about a shortage of skilled workers and others about increasing problems with bottlenecks. However, some of this is also about a better framework for business and, of course, entrepreneurship. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a need for an overall growth plan, and that is why we have the hope that the government will convene negotiations so that we can achieve it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141322	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141326	It's just a brief comment. Thank you very much for the words. I also think that there is agreement between the rapporteur and the tax minister on many things. I would just like to say quickly and briefly that, in relation to our funding proposals, we are very, very open to finding funding elsewhere than on registration fees. It was to come up with something that shows that we've actually been thinking about how this was going to be financed. If we hadn't written anything, I could imagine that some people had also thought: what is the alternative? Is there money in it, too? But over time you find some sensible rent for that, that is, how to present things so that they can be eaten. It was just a comment. I am not going to talk any more about our funding today, but now you know that we have one if that is something that can be agreed. And if we don't, we're open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141408	I have also read, of course, that the alternative writes that another funding can be found. And it is usually also possible to find if you sit around a negotiating table and both look at the concrete, i.e. whether the limits in the proposal are correct or whether there is to be another model. And what about the specific criteria? Then there is also the question of financing, where the restructuring of both registration fees and vehicle taxes is a slightly more difficult and complicated exercise at all. We in the Social Democratic Party would like to make it greener, but it will be an exercise on its own, and that is why we do not believe that what is at the root of this proposal does mean that we say yes. However, we would really like to be involved in discussing this further and, hopefully, convince the government that it should be soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141454	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141503	Thank you. As previous speakers have already said, this is about the alternative introducing an investor allowance for investments in small and unlisted companies. It is a deduction which one should be able to obtain for half of the investment up to DKK 650,000. This is an equational deduction, which means that the tax savings you get will be just under DKK 90,000. Or something like that. It's not that crucial either. I think it is 89 000, and it is a deduction which must apply to individuals and not to companies. It is very positive that you address the things, because entrepreneurship is crucial for Denmark, and you can see that Denmark lags behind both Sweden and England, where you have taken a large number of initiatives, among others. Some of the things the alternative is proposing today. I think that is a good thing to get on the agenda, and I would also like to start by signing for it. Because when you talk to entrepreneurs or read about it, you can see that one of the things that is a major challenge is that it is difficult to raise risk capital, and this will be something that will make it more attractive for other investors to invest in entrepreneurship. And that is quite positive. I do not want to talk the proposals down, but I want to say something about the funding. As it says, other funding proposals are open to us if we do not agree with the measures that are being taken here and that are about raising the limit on when the registration fee can be deducted. But we do not think it should be more expensive for drivers. We have just been part of a Finance Act, which has reduced the tax to make it cheaper to be a driver in Denmark. It is obvious, as has also been mentioned in the debate, that we should have a debate among the parties of the Folketing, and it should be when the government has come up with concrete initiatives, and then we can find common proposals that we can put forward and also joint funding. Because we fully share the agenda that Denmark should do something about entrepreneurship and that it should also be a long-term effort and not something like that with stop and go, where money is set aside for 1 or 2 years, but that we actually have a sustainable strategy in the longer term. That is also what I have the impression that great success has been achieved in Britain. In other words, although there has been a financial crisis or other things, we have actually prioritised entrepreneurship and insisted on setting aside some funds. Perhaps it's not the case that you can foam the cream of it early. It is entrepreneurship, but Britain must be maintained to be well advanced in the field of entrepreneurship, and I think that is something that is important to get into such future negotiations. That's it, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141743	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141748	I actually got a little curious. There is now a desire from the Social Democratic Party that the government should call for growth negotiations, and the alternative also says that it does not have to be before 1 April, but that it might be nice that we could soon get started with those discussions, and then we heard the Minister say that it will probably not be until the autumn when there is a budget bill to be discussed. And the fact that the rapporteur is from a party which has at least previously made financial legislation with the Left Government, one must assume that the Danish People's Party will also be called for the discussions. So does the rapporteur think that we should wait until the autumn, in other words until financial law negotiations are convened, or does the rapporteur think that it would be sensible and good for Denmark to sit down here and look at what we can actually agree on in broad terms in the Folketing, and already got a better framework for entrepreneurs started?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141846	To be honest, I do not think it is so important whether it will be 1 April, 1 June, 1 July or when. The most important thing is that we get some initiatives under way, which are also something that we put some of in the long term, which I also spent a little time talking about in my speech. For entrepreneurship is something you have to work up over time. In other words, it is a culture that must be incorporated into the Danes.Of course, it is true that people must dare to take the chance, but also that an entrepreneurial culture must be set in motion, where people dare to invest their savings in entrepreneurship, in unlisted companies and not only in large Danish C20 companies, in which there is a greater liquidity, i.e. where they can more quickly get rid of shares and buy some new ones etc. So what matters to me is not whether it is within one month or two months, but that we have the discussions and that we find some initiatives together. Then I actually hear this as such some sort of politician thing at Christiansborg, which people from outside sit and shake their heads off a little. For the Minister himself says that he will make some moves and then call the parties, and as far as I know, the Minister is not part of a majority government. It is a minority government. And if, for the time being at least, there is a picture that there is in fact broad support in the Danish Parliament for a discussion of this, then I think it will actually be possible to find a good agreement on it this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330141959	I certainly hope that the rapporteur will be right about this, namely that we will have a broad debate on it. And the last question on my part is simply because a financial law is not necessarily as broad an agreement as you would like, at least there are many examples that it is not: then it is the rapporteur's wish that the proposals here for better conditions for entrepreneurship, for example, will be included in some growth negotiations and some discussions that need to be conducted in a broad context? Will this be something that the Danish People's Party wants to emphasise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142035	That would be obvious, I would say. If there is such a feeling, even after the last rapporteurs after me have been there, that basically we support the need for initiatives to strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark, then it would be obvious that the government would also call those parties. Then it is clear that when you get further into the process, you might see whether different opinions are reflected, among other things. as to whether or not you want to take a different approach. For example: You can deduct this at a limit of DKK 650,000. Imagine that there are some who want it set much higher. And it is clear that you can then say that you do not continue to negotiate with them. But on the basis of this, I assume that if today there is broad support for doing something about this, then the government is also negotiating widely. Of course, it is up to a government to decide with whom to negotiate at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142114	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142123	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Alternative wishes to require the government to introduce an investor tax credit scheme for investments in entrepreneurship companies. It is many long words that operate in small and unlisted companies. I would like to thank the alternative for raising this important agenda. It is also something that we in the Left are very concerned about: that we have both entrepreneurship and growth, and that we have created some jobs in Denmark. I think this is a very important agenda, so thank you, because the alternative is also aware of this agenda. We in the Left also want to create growth and entrepreneurship and make it easier to be a entrepreneur in Denmark. We would like to look at the various initiatives that can create good innovation and a dynamic business environment. In this motion for a resolution, the Alternative aims to create an investor tax credit scheme, as the former V government had proposed in our plan. • A stronger Denmark • Growth 2016•. Now the VLAK government is working on a new growth initiative to help ease the tax burden on entrepreneurs and give them better access to risk capital. However, the growth initiative of the VLAK government will be broader than this proposal from the Alternative. We want to increase corporate investment in general, to facilitate generational shifts, to strengthen the stock culture, while this resolution is targeted only by entrepreneurs. The government's upcoming growth initiative, as indicated by the government base, will be based on recommendations from an entrepreneurial panel, and therefore the Left wants to await the panel's recommendations while the government finishes its work with a global growth initiative. We do not want to be determined at this stage on which individual elements should be included, but we are very positive that the alternative takes up what we think is an important agenda. So, on behalf of the Left, I can say that we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142321	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142326	As I also said to the Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the positive words from the Left. It is important for us in the alternative to say that, of course, we also have a desire to enter into much larger and wider negotiations in this area, but the resolution itself needs to be taken in isolation. So it is not because we do not want to bring the rest of the business community too, but here it is, of course, specifically the entrepreneurs. But we look forward to perhaps being invited to negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142354	We are also looking forward to the further progress, but it is clear, of course, that we have a slightly broader perspective when we are a government party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142403	I would actually like to reject that. Well, our perspective is just as wide, even if we're at the moment. is a non-government party. We simply cannot table a resolution containing the whole palette.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142415	No, I totally agree with that, and that is where the roles are different. That is why we will wait for us to be able to come up with an overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142420	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142431	I would also like to thank the alternative for having raised this debate on the proposal that we have to deal with now and those that we have to deal with afterwards, which, in one way or another, is all about access to capital and investment for entrepreneurship. That is a relevant problem. Unfortunately, it can often be difficult for small businesses and entrepreneurs to have access to both the necessary capital and the necessary investments that they need to develop their business. There are many ways of getting capital, and the most common is of course to use the ordinary loan market, i.e. the banks. And here we are faced with a serious problem in Denmark, namely that the banks here far more discriminate against small businesses than the banks in our neighbouring countries. It is simply far more expensive for small businesses to borrow than it is for large companies • yes, in fact Denmark is at the top of the EU when it comes to the difference in borrowing costs between large and small loans. The borrowing costs are 71 per cent. higher for small loans than they are for loans of more than 1 million. The euro is three times higher than the EU average. Specifically, this means, translated into the interest rate spread, i.e. that small businesses, which have to take out smaller loans, pay 2%. more in interest rates than the large companies that borrow for large investments. In Germany, the figure is 1.3 in interest rate differentials, and in Sweden it is as low as 0.2. Unfortunately, this challenge does not affect the alternative in the proposals we are discussing today, but I think that is something we should address. In a country such as Denmark, which very much bases its economy on micro and small enterprises, it is a major problem that private banks discriminate against the small ones as we see it. If private banks are not able to carry out the task of ensuring a reasonably cheap criticism to our many small businesses, and this is true throughout the country, because this is particularly a problem in what is known as the 'Udklandsdanmark', then the public sector must step in more. We already have the Innovation Fund and the Growth Fund and other state credit facilities, but perhaps we also need a more locally oriented public credit company targeted specifically at small businesses and self-employed people. So far, so good. Now to the alternative's proposal. The proposal means, as we have heard from the other rapporteurs, that in future we should be able to obtain a deduction for investment in entrepreneurship, and the intention is therefore good. We're generally not much for using deductions to secure this. Basically, as we see it, there is an injustice in the fact that people with more money, and it is typically those who invest in an entrepreneurial business, must have a deduction in income which will then in fact be paid by the rest of the taxpayer, for example. by low-paid taxpayers who are not making this kind of investment themselves. In other words, a deduction means that you do not have to contribute what you really should have paid to the community. So either the money for our welfare is lacking, or some others will have to pay more if we are to maintain the same welfare that we have today. This is probably the main problem we see in this proposal, which is why it is of course also crucial how it is financed. In other words, if it is a question of moving around the business support so that we find the money within the current business promotion system, where, in my opinion, a lot of money is being wasted, or by dropping planned reductions in corporate tax, which, of course, mainly benefit the largest companies, there is clearly more music in it for us. And, of course, it is also a bit a problem that we do not really know the cost of this proposal, but of course I fully agree that it is difficult for the alternative to calculate them. However, even if it is properly financed, it is still a tax-financed deduction and thus, in principle, a kind of State aid. We basically take the view that when society is putting money, that is to say some kind of state aid, into private companies, whether direct or through a tax credit, it is also reasonable to make some demands the other way and to ensure that the companies that benefit from state aid work for the general good, and use this state aid, it can be said, to encourage a socially beneficial effort. Well, we have, for example. not the great desire to grant state aid through this type of tax credit to the next Uber, who wants to establish himself in Denmark. That is why we actually liked the idea of the alternative's original proposal for a special deduction for investments in, for example. Green entrepreneurs or socio-economic enterprises. We would very much like to discuss this. But again, I would like to thank you very much for raising an important debate. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the SF and say that they cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142925	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330142930	Thank you for the positive words. I note two things which I think are very important. This applies to the difficult conditions under which small businesses can borrow from banks. That is something we will come back to in the later proposals. It is certainly noted. I think that is a very good point on the part of the Enhedslisten that this is something you should look at. And then there is the fact that our first proposal was more exciting also for Enhedslisten. We were wearing the socio-economic and environmental glasses when we assessed who should be deducted. I agree entirely with that. Smart as it may be, it may be found that we will rarely get through a resolution despite a great deal of consensus, it is perhaps wiser to stick to the initial sharpness of the proposal so that we can, after all, get more. It could have been Enhedslisten in this case. As far as funding is concerned, I should like to point out that in the original proposal we have made a financing proposal. We've been sniffing our way out. Precisely because the government had a similar proposal, with a different model, we refrained from including it. But it is clear that we need a picture of what it is about to cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143030	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143031	Just the last one can be a little difficult. After all, the proposal refers to a study which shows that the third employee is prepared to invest his pension savings. If you imagined that just one in five employees invested 0.5 million. kr., it became a really, really expensive proposal, so that is of course a certain reservation. However, as I have said, if it is the case that the money comes from other types of business support that you are providing today, it may be sensible, so I would in no way deny that we could be positive about something similar to this, but it depends firstly on where the money comes from, and secondly, we think it is reasonable when using state aid that state aid is used to promote socially beneficial behaviour in one way or another. And this is state aid; tax credit is just another form of state aid, because it is tax-financed,
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143124	I would like to make a brief comment on this. I fully agree that the use of the common fund should be a social promotion. With the Green Balance and Social Economic Balance initiative, we are almost sure that this would happen. In fact, where it is isolated for entrepreneurial support, we are convinced that this will also happen. It is not a real trickledown effect that we are talking about, but there is a local and demographic part that we believe in a whole new labour market in the future will be decisively supportive of society, even for those who are less well-off, only by supporting entrepreneurship. But we cannot predict that, so I agree that there is uncertainty about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143207	I therefore agree that just the fact that a company creates jobs is socially beneficial in itself. It happens all the time. When you go in and use one form or another of state funding, you can use it to encourage you to do something extra besides just creating jobs, for example. ensuring proper pay and working conditions, taking into account specific environmental and sustainability considerations or other social considerations. That is basically our business policy. We do not deny that different forms of business support can be created both directly and indirectly. We just think it is fair that when taxpayers pay, you can also make some demands the other way, so there is a balance in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143248	We thank the rapporteur and welcome the next rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143257	Thank you for that, President. The alternative suggests that people investing in small unlisted companies should be given the opportunity to obtain an equational deduction of 50 per cent. of their investment up to DKK 650,000. It will have a tax value of approx. 90,000 kroner. Let me start by saying that the proposal is far better than what the alternative has proposed in the past. As I understand it, the alternative has previously proposed a deduction of 1 million. kr., which was a full deduction for investments in small enterprises if some public expert panel could approve such an investment. I think that was a completely terrible suggestion. There should be such a public taste panel to assess what is good and bad investment. The alternative is clearly moving in the right direction with this proposal. I would like to say that in fact, in general terms, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Pelle Dragsted, when he says that deduction is something to be careful about. In fact, that is what we in the Liberal Alliance think. There are several reasons for this. They complicate the tax system, distort consumption, distort investment. We clearly prefer a single tax system, and we clearly prefer, when it comes to improving the investment climate in Denmark, to lower the very high share tax that we have in Denmark. That would be the best thing you could do. Having said that, something needs to be done in this area. It is important that it becomes attractive for citizens to invest in companies, both start-ups and already established companies. If there is no majority in favour of a reduction in share taxation in Denmark, such proposals as the alternative is proposing here, which is, after all, a true copy of something proposed by the former government, the Left Government, may well be discussed in our view. Because the alternative could be that nothing happens. But our approach to this is to ensure uniform framework conditions. We are also pleased with entrepreneurship. It's become a bit of a buzzword to say entrepreneurship. However, it is actually about general investment conditions. As a starting point, we do not think it should be more attractive to invest in a new company than in an established company. There are many ideas • some of them may also become reality • about different deductions. There was the ACE allowance, which I did not like, from the previous government. There is R&D deduction, i.e. an excess deduction for investment in research and development. This means that you get a deduction of over 100 per cent. the cost of research. We don't like that in the Liberal Alliance either. So we are very concerned about deduction. General facilitation of share taxation, of corporate tax is sensible policy, and this is our way of improving investment conditions in Denmark. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution either, but of course we are awkwardly aware of the political, parliamentary situation, and that is why something like this could become a reality, of course also with our votes, one day if it is the case that we cannot have what is best, namely a general reduction in share taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143717	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143722	I am certainly pleased that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is more satisfied with this proposal than with the original one from the Alternative, because then we have not gone completely wrong in the city, after all, when we have chosen a proposal that we ourselves like less in order to achieve consensus. I have one question. The rapporteur moved all the way up to the big blade in relation to how awful the old proposal was, where we suggested that there were 1 million. kr. in the possibility of deduction and full deduction if it was either a socially or environmentally sustainable enterprise and it should certainly be defined by a professionally competent committee. It is not too polemic after the tax minister's speech, but we heard that there will be an entrepreneurship panel to define some guidelines. There I would just like to say that, in the eyes of the Alternative, it is not necessarily public or municipal employees who have to sit and assess it. It might just as well be, but it is a panel with professional competence to assess whether it is either socially or environmentally justifiable to give them an additional deduction. So the question to the rapporteur is: is it the panel composition that must not contain anything in public, or how can we understand the terrible thing in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143835	No, it is the whole idea of a panel that must sit and approve what investments must be made and whether the investments in question can be deducted, which I do not like at all and which I really think is a terrible, terrible idea. That would mean that some people should sit and approve how people will spend their own money and what they want to invest in. I can hardly say enough bad about that, and it will never be our policy at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143912	One of the reasons why we allow ourselves to come up with such ideas is that we think that, when we make deductions, it is precisely important, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and also the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur point out, that we are really careful about why we are doing it and what it is creating and why we are allowing ourselves to make the deductions from the common fund. When we look at investment in socio-economic enterprises, we see that it provides something quite different from ordinary investment in some limited company in order to create maximum growth. It could be something you knew for sure would create something in the community. It could be something that raised some social competences or ideals in a given respect. It is just to clarify that when you make deductions, it is precisely important to be careful and that we have defined a framework for how we can make sure that this is going to be good and not just a relaxation for some and not for the whole of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330143959	I believe that people who invest their own money are very, very careful about what they invest them in. I also believe that they are more careful than any panel of experts can be. The collective knowledge that is among millions of Danes who invest their money is infinitely greater than any panel composed of politicians can ever be. That's why such taste judgment isn't our cup of tea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144039	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144051	Let me begin by thanking the alternative for this row, this cascade of motions for resolutions, all of which aim to do something good for entrepreneurs in Denmark. It is the case that when there are good ideas, many would like to take credit for them, and I can hear that both the Minister and several other parties will. I believe that we have actually put forward an identical proposal before the government could bring theirs, but peace be with it. It is a good thing that there is actually about to be a broad consensus in this room. To the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, I would like to say that we also think there may be reason to look at other corporate taxes and corporate taxation. Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen the profit margin tax, but this proposal is, as I understand it, aimed at unlisted smaller companies, so it can be said that it affects a different group of companies than a reduction in the share tax. We think it makes sense to do something for this group. We could also live with the funding proposed by the alternative here, but of course we can also find other funding, which is also in the decision-making framework. In any case, it is obvious that we need to get easier and more capital for smaller entrepreneurship companies so that they can grow larger. There will be other proposals later on on the agenda, which we are also in favour of voting for or discussing further. We have set aside a significant amount of money in our 2025 plan to go in and make targeted reductions in this area, just as we have set aside funds for tax cuts for people. We may think this is the most important thing. I think we have set aside money for massive investment in education and other cramped areas that benefit the next generation. Therefore, I could also be a little tempting to say to the tax minister: I could well miss a bit of the flexibility and energy that characterized the tax minister before he came into government, i.e. where one was like ready to act, ready to do something, and it was urgent. Then it can easily happen, when you come into government, that there will be such a thing as setting up committees, and that will have to be done in the government's Economic Committee, and then it will have to be done in the KK Committee and yours and that, but in fact there has not been a single party up here that has not said: we want to, we are ready, should we not take a hand in giving the entrepreneurs? And then perhaps we could be tempted to ask the tax minister: Why should it be so difficult? Could the government perhaps consider waiting for a whole year or half, or how much it will be when we get to the fall, to play out, and then maybe bite to fuck and do something good for the country's entrepreneurs a little sooner. I understand that it may be difficult to reach by 1 April, but perhaps this could be achieved in the spring. In any case, we would like to take part in this if it is the case that the government wants to get the pot going before it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144358	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144406	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I would also like to start by thanking the Alternative for raising this important debate with this resolution, which aims to impose on the government by 1 April at the latest a legislative proposal to introduce an investor allowance for investment in entrepreneurship shares. The intention of the proposal is, in fact, entirely in the view of the Conservative People's Party that it should be made easier and more attractive to raise capital and invest in companies, both established companies and, in particular, entrepreneurial companies. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very much in favour of improving the conditions for entrepreneurs, and precisely access to capital is one of the things many entrepreneurs mention as one of the biggest barriers when they have to grow their business or move from entrepreneurship to production or from idea to entrepreneurship. It is precisely through entrepreneurship that society becomes stronger and richer. It is when someone gets an idea that is better than those in the established companies that entrepreneurship helps to raise society. It is important, it is indispensable, and that is what we need to get going if we are to create growth in Denmark. That is why it is also the ambition of the government and the Conservative People's Party to relax the tax burden on entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises and to provide better access to risk capital and strengthen the stock culture. The excellent proposals of the alternative could certainly be within the framework of that, but if we do not want to back up at this stage, it is, as has already been mentioned, because the Minister for Industry has just set up this entrepreneurship panel, and we will therefore wait for the recommendations that come from there, because they must, among other things, be. look at the opportunities to raise capital for entrepreneurs. And we do not want to make it clear in advance that it is precisely this proposal that should be part of the package, but look at an overall package when it is ready. So, although we may disagree slightly with the funding proposal for an increase in registration fees, I would like to conclude by thanking the alternative for a constructive proposal and for raising an important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144618	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330144627	Thank you. You may well become completely degenerate into having these entrepreneurial B proposals, because there is such a positive atmosphere in this Chamber when you have them. However, it must be said that at the same time I have some respect for tabling resolutions, not least when it is four in one day. And that is why it is quite clear that we have left this one motion for a resolution alone and left the other three to work together. Because, as we can also hear from today's debate, there is a great deal of consensus across the parties and in the Folketing that this is actually quite sensible. There may be disagreement on some parts of the proposal, not least the funding, where we are also completely open in the alternative to doing so in a different way from what we have proposed. But summa summarum, we have left this proposal alone in order to achieve a consensus in here. And I hear it's there. So it's happy. Then we will have to see how flexible the tax minister will be in the coming period in order to convene negotiations as soon as possible. I should like briefly to outline what we have emphasized in the motion for a resolution, in addition to the fact that there is this positive debate. We came in April 2016 with an entrepreneurial package that we thought was very ambitious. It has been achieved, and I can safely say so, because it was not myself who was the rapporteur at the time that was rather good recognition widely in Denmark that it was some things that were needed that we presented in it. A little month ago, I presented a proposal that our pension funds could be set free and to a greater extent go in and also support entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial people with our pension funds. Today we are following up four other proposals, one of which I shall concentrate on now. So, we would like to give the opportunity to invest in smaller and also unlisted companies through share purchases for up to DKK 650,000. We had proposed that it should be a million kroner that one could invest, and we had proposed that we would give a 50% deduction for the investments, but a 100 percent deduction for the investments, if otherwise one invested in smaller companies that had a socially sustainable focus, then a business area that would also drive growth on bottom lines other than the economic, community, or in a fashion in Denmark perspective, where we came to stand for a completely conscious social corporate responsibility in Denmark. It could be in the social area, it could also be in the green area, where you had a very green profile and where you promoted sustainability and perhaps looked climate change directly in the eye. That is why we would like to help bring some benefits, in the sense that it became easier for the companies that then had this profile to receive investments where a 100% deduction could be made. What I hear in today's debate is that there is greater support, at least among the governing parties, for a version which does not include these two parameters, which we thought were very interesting. That is why we have also tabled the motion for a resolution in the manner proposed by the former Left Government, with a deduction of DKr 650,000. without special advantages for green or social economic enterprises. And we're actually okay with that. Well, we're okay to start here, because we actually believe very much in entrepreneurs in Denmark and their social outlook. We believe that it is quite latent, especially for many of the young start-ups, that they will also contribute to society and that they do not intend to create jobs where you do not thrive or where you do not think about the environment. We are quite confident in giving them the freedom that they get lucrative relationships to receive investment, without handcuffing either green or social economy. However, we believe that, as several rapporteurs have pointed out, among other things. The rapporteurs of the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten, who, in the process of breaking up, said: let us be aware that it can therefore be a little dangerous just to make deductions to the right and to the left. And we agree with that. That is why we really wanted us to make sure that there was a direction in the deduction we gave, and that is why we had chosen precisely socially responsible and green businesses. But summa summarum: I would just like to end by saying that before we start the next reading, where we are taking three motions for resolutions together and there is no need to thrive on the subject, although it is apparently a fantastic unifying subject in the Danish Parliament. The Social Democrat rapporteur kindly helped us to point out. It's always nice with a big party saying this could be the right direction. Then we can sneak into the background and perhaps join the negotiations a little before the budget negotiations. In view of the fact that we in Denmark are quite poor at investing in companies and shares, one has become accustomed to the fact that we should rather invest in bonds or real estate, probably because we have learned that it is either safer or simply more lucrative. We would like to focus on today's resolution, that is to say, to give greater opportunities for small and smaller businesses, including unlisted ones, to receive massive support from entrepreneurs or citizens who want to contribute to the society they are part of. And it may be more attractive for some to invest in a company you know than in a large global company to which you do not really belong. And then you might choose to buy an extra rental property or something, whatever you might want. So we hope that we have also opened the door to a common and a little more entrepreneurial parliament, which goes to negotiations on entrepreneurship and business policy. After all, it is not our business policy that we are rolling out here; it is a single motion for a resolution to promote entrepreneurship. So thank you very much for the positive words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145158	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145206	Thank you. It is not to prolong the debate. I just want to hear about the rapporteur, René Gade, who does not agree that the crucial thing in relation to this is not the speed. It is, of course, a long, cool move, as has been done in England, in the area of entrepreneurship, where you have to have built up a culture with the Danes in relation to investing more in unlisted stocks, and that you also have to have people dare to take the chance to build a framework for it. What matters is not whether we get started on 1 April or 1 May. At least I see it as far more crucial that we have a different culture in relation to entrepreneurship in Denmark than that things are going so fast in the Folketing. That is not to say that I think it should not come until next year, but whether it comes in May or not until August, I do not think it should necessarily be so crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145253	No, I totally agree. I thought that was a very good comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who said that many of us actually competed on the same agenda. After all, we are a new party in here, and we are riding on the shoulders of many of the other parties that have made a great many of the decisions we make in the past through political history. That is why it is not necessarily months of speed; it is just that we ensure that it is on the agenda. So when we saw that the previous government suddenly did not have this in the new package of government bases, we thought that we should make sure that it is maintained here. So, yes, the focus needs to be maintained, and then it doesn't do so much, whether it's months or weeks, as long as we're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145323	With that, we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145340	Then we will deal with the last item on the agenda. Now it is just before it takes longer to read it out than it does to have it dealt with in the Things, because we are pooling three resolutions here. The negotiations have been opened and I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330145434	Thank you for that, President. We shall now consider the other three motions for resolutions tabled by the Alternative, which are on today's agenda. These are three proposals which, like the previous one, seek to strengthen the conditions and funding for entrepreneurs. As mentioned during the debate on the previous motions for resolutions, good framework conditions for entrepreneurship and for growth companies are at the heart of both the government and for me personally as tax minister. A dynamic and innovative business environment is the backbone of our economy and the prerequisite for our prosperity and common welfare. As I mentioned earlier, this is why the government has set up an entrepreneurial panel with real, live entrepreneurs to come up with proposals on how to make it easier and more attractive to become an entrepreneur and start and, not least, to grow one's entrepreneurship. I am pleased that, with these three motions for resolutions, we will have the opportunity to discuss three more specific initiatives put forward by the alternative in this case. In the first motion for a resolution, B 35, on better opportunities and conditions for private lending to entrepreneurs, including through loan-based crowdfunding, the alternative proposes that we get a tax exemption on interest income for up to DKK 50,000. per years for private lending to entrepreneurship, including loan-based crowdfunding platforms. The government is generally positive about the many new opportunities for crowdfunding. Now I know you cannot speak English in the Parliament, but I find it difficult to translate the word crowdfunding, but it is a form of joint funding for entrepreneurship. And microfinance is open to us because it is something that technological development supports and strongly pushes. This gives entrepreneurs and growth companies new opportunities to raise capital to create development and jobs. I also have to say that it is, however, the government's basic position that each individual must be able to decide for himself where and how and under what risk conditions he or she will invest his or her savings, so we must therefore be aware that we are not creating a system where tax rules are the determining factor for what one invests in. And the alternative proposal means a tax favouritism of lending to entrepreneurship. This, of course, will increase entrepreneurship's ability to borrow at low-cost interest rates, but at the expense of other investments with potentially higher returns, and this may make it difficult for other established companies to finance their investments. At the same time, there is, of course, such a problem of demarcation as to when you are entrepreneurship and when you are not. At the same time, the fiscal advantage of certain interest income and loan conditions in relation to investment in, for example, equity makes it harder for both established and entrepreneurial companies to raise equity. Against this background, we do not find in the government that what the alternative here has formulated is the right way to strengthen entrepreneurship, and that is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the motion for a resolution on this basis, but we support the intentions behind it. Then there is B 36 on a higher ceiling for employee shares in entrepreneurial companies, and there is a proposal that the alternative should improve the opportunities for tax-free allocation of employees in smaller entrepreneurial companies with employee shares. I would like to make it clear that this government, like the previous government, has a positive view of the remuneration of employee shares. This is a good way to give employees incentives to make an extra effort, and with the 2016 Finance Act, employees were given the opportunity to receive shares with a maximum value of 10%. of annual earnings without income tax. I think it is under the Finance Act, among other things. was a concession to the Liberal Alliance, which has had a lot of focus on this area, so we have to sign for that. So the alternative would raise this limit from 10 to 25 per cent. In the opinion of the Alternative, as set out in the motion for a resolution, entrepreneurs find it more difficult to offer competitive pay compared to established companies. I would just like to point out that today's tax rules are not an obstacle to employees receiving more than 10%. of the salary as employee shares. You can do that, it's perfectly legal today. But, of course, in this situation tax liability arises for the part that exceeds 10%. So you can easily choose to use employee shares as a form of remuneration, but you then incur tax liability over the 10%. If the employee does not want tax on allocation, the applicable rules also offer other options. It is therefore possible to grant the employee free of tax buying and drawing rights. The employee is taxed only when the rights are exercised, i.e. when, for example, the company is taxed. If we have growth, we have come into a different situation from the one we were in as entrepreneurship, and if the rights are never worth anything, no taxation will, of course, not happen. So, in my view and in the view of the government, entrepreneurship already has good opportunities for remuneration with shares by applying the same rules as other companies, and we also run into the same issue as before, i.e. how we define what an entrepreneurial business is. Against this background, therefore, the government does not consider that there is a need for specific rules for entrepreneurs in this area. Then there is the last motion for a resolution. It is B 37 on the release of funds from the savings accounts of self-employed entrepreneurs for entrepreneurial investment. It proposes that the option be given to invest in unlisted shares in entrepreneurial enterprises without it being regarded as an increase. When there is an increase, there must of course be taxation, and that is why you want to have the opportunity to do so. A number of criticisms have been levelled at the fact that the current rules on saving profits in the company scheme, which are really, very many traders use, cannot now be invested in shares and that the rules are too restrictive and need to be reviewed. I believe that some of the criticisms that have been made are that in the world we are in today, where there is increasing need and where more and more capital is being raised in this way, the company regime should also open up the use of savings profits to invest in shares under certain restrictions, of course. Such a change in the corporate regime requires a closer examination, e.g. that there is no undue discrimination between investments because investments in shares through the enterprise scheme would involve special favourable conditions. One could imagine that someone who would invest in shares by the front door would not do so by the front door, but instead do it by the back door, and in this case it could be through the corporate tax scheme, because in this way you will get some more lucrative terms for investment in shares. This might lead to an increase in investment in shares, but also to the risk of leading to a corresponding and socio-economicly unprofitable lower income for the state and for society in the form of tax revenue from equity income. That is also why I have asked the Treasury to launch an analysis, not to shoot down the proposal, but to highlight the possibilities and consequences of relaxing the rules in general. It is also a wish raised by a number of stakeholders in this area, so it is not only the Alternative that cares about this issue. I think there are a number of parties that have pointed this out in the past in the Folketing, and I have also received a letter from Agriculture & Food, which represents a large number of farmers who are using the enterprise scheme, which wants to relax some of the rules governing the use of savings for farmers who may have such savings. That is by no means everyone. However, a selective relaxation, as proposed here alone, of large-scale investment in entrepreneurship, would, in the view of the government, lead to inappropriate discrimination against investment and could in fact, in the long term, hamper the growth of the economy as a whole. Well, as rounding, I would like to make it clear that the government would like to look at initiatives that promote growth and entrepreneurship in Denmark. However, the government does not think that the proposals put forward here are the right way to go, so we were positive about the previous proposal on the investor allowance, but here we are somewhat more hesitant, but we are of course happy to discuss how to ensure better conditions for entrepreneurs. The government will also make concrete proposals for this when, later this year and during the rest of this parliamentary term, we are going to work to achieve what is in the government base to ensure good conditions for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150355	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150400	My question is actually about the B 37, which the Minister of Taxation also mentioned, and where I see at least a risk that it might lead to some form of tax speculation. Is that also how I should understand what the tax minister says about there being a risk? I could, for example. Imagine that entrepreneurship could be created pro forma to get this tax credit and other. Does the Minister agree that there may be such a risk? Because that was at least one of the things I attached myself to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150440	I fully agree with that. In other words, it is the case that water runs one particular way, and if one can quite legally avoid hard taxation by making special company designs or other, one does so, of course. You can't think of anyone in that. And it is also fair enough to implement it as legislation, but then you have to do it with your eyes open. I prefer to lower taxes at the front door as a tax minister. After all, the former Left Government had a proposal to reduce share taxation and what this government's position is on that issue will be clarified when we look at growth initiatives later. But if you're going to lower the stock tax, I don't think you should do it by the back door with a model like this. Then you have to do it at the front door by lowering the share tax. However, having said that, there may well be opportunities for the company, and that is what the analysis in the Ministry of Taxation would like to show that in some way one can open up the investment of a saved profit in the company scheme without this having the negative consequences as a result of the tax burden moving around.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150550	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150554	Again, I would like to thank you for your comments, and I also take note of the disadvantages that may arise from the sort of corporate speculation that Enhedslisten's rapporteur pointed out and which the tax minister also pointed out. It should, of course, be on a sound, reasoned and thoroughly analysed basis that a partial element was opened up and, happily, it would seem that the Minister of Taxation has launched an initiative along these lines. We would very much like to support the alternative if we find such a fairly dense version where we can give entrepreneurs some support anyway. Could the tax minister perhaps give me such a hint about which of these three proposals has the greatest goodwill on the part of the tax minister now that I can hear that there is not the very great goodwill on all three of them in their entirety? Is there one of them that we need to make our bags extra green to approach the tax minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150645	Well, I think that with the last two proposals, that is, the issue of crowdfunding and this business tax scheme, there are some areas where we in the government fully agree with the alternative, namely that there is a need to ensure alternative liquidity for entrepreneurial companies or for businesses at all. After all, the government has to report on what our growth initiatives are going to be, and we will do that. The former Left Government had a number of proposals to ensure increased liquidity, and it is, of course, a question of partly putting out those who sit on the money • today it is the banks and pension funds • and also to find inspiration in what is being done in Sweden. Here you have a situation where far more ordinary people invest in small businesses, either by investing directly in them and getting a tax credit it could be the investor's allowance or by investing through pension funds and other. So we are in favour of the agenda to secure liquidity by turning on some handles. We think some of these handles are turning in a slightly wrong way, but I hope and believe that we can find each other together and ensure, also with the alternative, that we have increased liquidity opportunities for not only entrepreneurs, but Danish companies in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150806	In doing so, we thank the Minister for Taxation. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin of the Social Democratic Party who is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330150833	Thank you. This is, after all, a continuation of the debate we had during the previous proposal, B 33, on how to ensure good conditions for entrepreneurs in Denmark. That is why I do not want to repeat everything that we have said there, or at least not too much of it, but I just want to stress that we in the Social Democrats also want to help ensure a good framework for entrepreneurship. This is also what we are dealing with in our growth initiative, which we have just presented to us: growth that works so that we create jobs for the future, so that we share the alternative's desire for better conditions for investment. On the other hand, we do not agree with the proposers of the funding provided for in these three motions for resolutions, which is the same as the one we discussed under B 33, and then we are not entirely convinced that all the measures are waterproof. As the Minister also mentioned, it is complicated legislation with regard to the consequences it will have, and it is clear that it will be slightly understated when it is a resolution that takes up one fifth of an A4 page. That is why I want to deal specifically with the relationship of changing the rules for employee shares, where the alternative suggests that the current limit of 10%. of the employees' annual salary, which can be tax-free, is increased to 25% if you invest in smaller companies. We are fundamentally opposed to this tax relief. We even abolished this tax advantage for employee shares back in 2012, based on the principle that wages should be taxed equally, regardless of how they are paid out, and that perks, which are actually wages, are also taxed as such. We believe that this is an important principle to uphold in our tax legislation. So if we do what the proposers suggest, then it is our assessment that the risk is that there can be speculation on paying the salary as employee shares and that it will be a tax scam for people who may pay a lot of tax. Last year the blue parties reinstated the tax exemption. We were against this at the time, and that is why we are against extending the system today. So we do not support the motions for resolutions, but we agree with the intention to see a good framework for Danish entrepreneurs and also better opportunities to raise capital. That is why, in conclusion, I would just like to say once again that I hope that the government will, as soon as possible, convene the parties of the Folketing for growth negotiations, so that we can also look specifically at what we are doing with regard to the country's entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330151123	Thank you. There is one brief comment. No, it's gone. Then we will just thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330151137	Thank you. As the previous speakers have said, there are three proposals for co-decision here, and I will deal with them individually and perhaps not so much as mention the overall issue of entrepreneurship, since we have just had the debate on this in the previous proposal. I can at least repeat that I would like to commend the alternative for putting it on the agenda, because, as I mentioned earlier, it is something that needs to be focused on, not because Denmark is a bad entrepreneurship place, but, for example, because it is not a bad entrepreneurship place. Because we can see that it simply runs stronger if you use that expression, among other things. England and Sweden, and there are at least some measures we can learn from, if only to build up a better entrepreneurship, also in relation to investing in it. That's what you do. I should also like to deal with some of these proposals. The first is B 35, which is of course about having a tax exemption for interest income of up to DKK 50,000, if you grant private loans to entrepreneurial companies, that is to say, very targeted at the new source of funding, crowdfunding, which I myself think is also extremely exciting, because you get some investors who do not normally invest in companies where it can often be more established business angels, as they are called, or you can finance through banks or otherwise get capital in a company where this can especially be small deposits that you can get into a company. I think this is an incredibly exciting way to be able to finance forward-looking and an alternative way, which I think we should see in this way whether we can also support from the Folketing, because it is a good way to get some risk capital into a start-up company. Unfortunately, there are some challenges with funding here too, as I said in the last proposal, but I do not think it should spoil the good debate and what I think will come out of this proposal, namely that at least somebody may not have a consensus on what is going to happen, but at least a common understanding that we need some initiatives in this area, that there can be an understanding among the parties that we should at least do something and that we are willing to come up for negotiations when the government comes up with its initiative. B-36, which is the second proposal, deals with the part on employee shares, and here too it is actually a proposal which the government is required to make before 1 April, and I can say that it is nevertheless positive that it is considered that the government is so effective that it can achieve it by 1 April. I do not think so, and I do not believe that that is the aim of it either, because it is a minor detail, and it would be possible to table amendments if that were the challenge. So that is not why we do not support it. After all, it is a question of extending the method that exists today, where employee shares can be offered to key employees. I actually understand that, especially in entrepreneurship, the problem is quite real, because this proposal deals precisely with the fact that you do not have the large capital you can use. Many times in a new entrepreneurial enterprise, no turnover has been achieved, so you also get some money, so there may be a need for you to be able to pay in other ways. We are open to looking at it if you can delineate it here to entrepreneurial companies and that way you can set it up there and that it is not necessarily something you have to open up that there must also be large established companies. So we are, in fact, open to looking at this also in the discussions that are being set up here to come later. But what is crucial to us in this resolution is also the definition which the alternative itself mentions in the motion for a resolution and which, of course, must be taken into account in these considerations. What I am saying is really just to confirm it, and the alternative itself has pointed this out in their proposals. The last thing B 37, I'm a little more in doubt about. It's about people who have this corporate arrangement and operate in it, and whether they should now be able to invest some of the savings in shares in the future. It is the case today that if they invest in bonds, it is not something that is considered to be raised and therefore to be taxed, but if you do so in shares, it is something that is considered to be raised and therefore taxed. You want to change that so much. But I am also thinking, without being an expert in this area, and perhaps that is why it is fine for us to look into it in greater detail, that it can present some challenges, that you can run something in business and get some tax benefits from it. One could imagine that they would then have invested further into a holding company, which would also give some tax advantages, which would then have such a production company, and then perhaps they could take a lenient profit out of their holding company into a company scheme, in which they could then push the tax ball before them in principle indefinitely. At any rate, there are some things that we must have hit if we are to go further along that path. That is not to say that we are simply rejecting it and pouring it down the board, but I think it makes sense that there may be some technical things in this which mean that we should not just say yes to that model at once, but that we need more knowledge and analysis in this area. On the whole, however, I would just like to say that it is positive that we will have the debate on nothing else, and I look forward to seeing some discussions at some point also via the Ministry when they have looked into and made the analyses that are needed, especially on the last proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330151635	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330151645	Thank you for the floor. With these three resolutions, the alternative would like the government to adopt various legislative changes in favour of entrepreneurship in Denmark. I would once again like to commend the alternative for focusing on entrepreneurship in Denmark. It is also a focus point for the Left, just as we also focus on other ways to ensure growth. I will take these three motions for resolutions separately. With B-35, the alternative would like a tax exemption on interest income of up to DKK 50,000. per years from private loans to entrepreneurship, including through loan-based crowdfunding. As the tax minister also said, I think, of course, that he said some very sensible things... it will result in a fiscal favouritism of lending to entrepreneurs, and this may make it more difficult for already established companies to obtain loans for their investments. This may also make it more difficult for established entrepreneurial enterprises to raise equity on the basis of the fiscal advantage granted to certain interest income and loan conditions in relation to certain investments in, for example: shares. We do not believe, on the basis of the Left, that a tax exemption on interest income on private loans is the right way to improve the situation of entrepreneurs. In B36 it is proposed to change the rules for employee shares so that smaller companies can assign employee shares equivalent to 25 per cent. of the employee's annual salary without having to be taxed. The Left is, in fact, very positive about the remuneration of employee shares, and that is why, with the 2016 Finance Act, we implemented rules that allow employees to receive shares without taxation, if that corresponds to a maximum of 10%. of the annual salary. The current rules do not prevent employees from receiving more than 10%. of wages in employee shares, but all over 10%. will be taxable. Under the applicable rules, rights to purchase and subscribe may also be granted to the employee, where the employee is taxed only when the rights are exercised. We do not therefore consider that the proposal will have an effect that corresponds to the complexity of the proposal. B 37 seeks to change the rules of the company scheme so that funds from the savings account can be invested in shares in entrepreneurship companies. As the Minister also mentioned, the Minister has launched an analysis earlier this year to improve the ability of the self-employed to invest the saved profits. This proposal is only about a selective change in the rules that only benefits entrepreneurship, and we are concerned that this could lead to a discrimination of investment which could, in the long term, hamper the growth of the economy as a whole. We are open to implementing a general relaxation of the rules on the location of saved profits in the corporate scheme if the tax department's analysis shows that this can be done in a sensible way. Finally and overall, I can conclude that the Left agrees with the alternative that we must promote entrepreneurship in Denmark and create better conditions for business. This is also evident from our government base. We want to complete the work on the overall growth initiative before we get to grips with individual initiatives, but we welcome the proposals that the alternative has made and we see it as an obvious opportunity for a discussion on entrepreneurship. And the alternative's desire to promote the debate on entrepreneurship seems to us to be positive. However, we cannot support the proposals at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152023	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152028	Thank you again for the positive bars from the Left. I just want to ask you something that has now been discussed a few times. There may be a risk by allowing to invest in shares from a company scheme. There can be holes, no doubt about it. There may be things that will be disproportionately exploited in such legislation if they become reality. After all, our ambition is to find a sensible rent, just as the tax minister has commissioned a study to find out if there is such a rent. But will the rapporteur either try to make an alternative or perhaps say yes to it? This is something that brings the savings of companies into play for new companies. It is something that sets something new in motion: the opportunity to act business angels in the small and let the ball roll in a positive direction instead of pile up capital that stands without being used. If we now ignore the gaps that may exist, does the rapporteur recognise that we are setting something in motion from that point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152135	I fully recognise the intentions of the alternative, and I am also in favour of them. I am concerned about the concrete proposals. I am concerned that it creates some gaps and opportunities to exploit the system in inappropriate ways. But we are positive about the intentions, and that is also why we have set in motion an analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152151	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330152208	Again, I would like to thank the alternative for raising this debate, which we started with the previous proposal, and which is basically about access to capital investment for entrepreneurship. As I said, this is a relevant problem. Of course, there are many challenges faced by entrepreneurs, among others. access to qualified labour and many other things, but the issue of access to capital is also an important issue, especially for many small businesses. As I said earlier, this is also due to the fact that the Danish banks far more discriminate against small businesses than the banks in our neighbouring countries. As I said, there is an interest rate spread of about 2%. in Denmark, where it is considerably lower in Sweden. This is a problem which these proposals do not address, but, as I said, we should do so in a country such as Denmark, which is very much based on small businesses. It is not clever that there is this behaviour in the banks, and that is why, as I said earlier, perhaps there is a need to consider whether we should think about several state credit facilities, as we know from the Innovation Fund, the Growth Fund and other • but even more targeted small businesses and entrepreneurs, perhaps particularly in the outskirts. But these proposals are about some other forms of access to capital than bank financing, so let us turn to them. B 35 is, after all, about granting a tax exemption from interest income for up to DKK 50,000. from private loans to entrepreneurship to promote crowdfunding of entrepreneurs. We think crowdfunding is a really good idea. This may actually help to make small businesses and entrepreneurs less dependent on the financial sector, which, as I said, may take a little rough prices when it comes to these small businesses. Nevertheless, we are probably skeptical about this proposal, and again it is because we find it difficult to see the fairness of the low-paid warehouse worker, cashier to finance a tax exemption from interest income, that is to say to pay tax on hard work so that others can avoid paying tax on a return on investment. I mean, someone who gets, for example. 25,000 kroner. in interest income, must be someone who has invested quite a lot of money, and so this is a proposal that takes account of some of the more money-intensive groups and people in our society. And one might ask oneself: do people with so much money, who have already been favoured by various tax evasions, need more relaxations? I think we're a little skeptical about that. Suggestions B 36 is about changing the rules for employee shares. It has been discussed here so that in future you can pay more of the wage in employee shares than in cold cash. We really think in Enhedslisten that it is positive if employees gain greater ownership of the companies in which they work, and employee shares are a way of ensuring that. Switching to some form of cooperative operation or cooperative ownership is another and in our view often better way, but employee shares can also be positive. But once again we have a reservation. It says that the proposal is to guarantee competitive wages, but the problem is again that these competitive wages are, after all, financed by all of us because this is a tax exemption. In other words, what makes it competitive is that everything else just pulls money out of the pockets of some others, i.e. among others. hardworking low-paid Danes. So this is again a sort of state aid paid by others. And again, it depends on the funding, but of course I will come back to that. Finally, there is B 37, which means that private operators can avoid paying tax on the money they earn from their business if they invest in a particular kind of business. That's what I asked you about before. We understand the intention, but we are immediately concerned that it opens up new opportunities for such tax speculation. Basically, we are not very much in favour of these opportunities to avoid tax by placing its profits in different types of investment outside the company, even the opportunities that already exist today. And we can see a risk of setting up such pro forma companies in order to evade tax. So that is at least what we see, something that needs to be carefully thought about, and that is why we are probably skeptical here too. Then there are some things about all the proposals that I also think create some challenges, and that is the definition of these companies. For example: is one of the proposals, inspired by Britain, to set a limit on a number of employees. And there may be the question: can it mean that, as a company, in order to maintain some particularly lucrative conditions, one avoids going beyond that number, for example. So, when you employ the first 25 people, does it take a certain amount of growth before you hire the 26th? It may be inappropriate; I do not have an immediate answer to it, but it is certainly a challenge to it. In general, all three proposals are therefore based on what I have said about indirect State aid to companies. And, as I mentioned in the previous proposal, we have the basic view that when you as a community, as a community, put money into private companies, whether it is direct or through the tax credit, it is reasonable to make some demands the other way and use this state aid to create incentives that encourage special social efforts. It may be in relation to sustainability, it may be in relation to proper working conditions and contractual relationships, it may be for social economic reasons, i.e. the employment of people with reduced working capacity, and other things. We think it is reasonable that, in this way, if we invest some money together, we should also encourage behaviour that benefits society. And I fully recognise that having a business and creating jobs at all is beneficial to society, but when money comes in from the community, it is reasonable to make more far-reaching demands. Then it is also worth considering whether it is always wise to take these detours, or whether the money was better spent, for example, by using state resources, that is to say Community funds, to do so. to put them in the Innovation Fund or in a new State credit facility targeted entrepreneurs and small enterprises. Then may I not conclude with a few general words about this whole area of business policy. I think that we are talking a lot about entrepreneurs, understood as growth companies, gazelles and unicorns, that is, growing companies, and then, of course, about the very large, about Production Denmark, which we would like to visit. On the other hand, I do not think we talk very much about those who are most of them, the ordinary small businesses, the small clothing store, the coffee shop down at Istedgade, the many small independent consultants and communication professionals, the small software company, that is, all those who may never be huge and may not reach an international market, at least not on a large scale, but who nevertheless employ hundreds of thousands of people. In fact, nine out of ten companies in Denmark are so-called micro-enterprises with fewer than ten employees. Maybe it's because these companies don't have the networks and contacts that many of the big ones have. Perhaps this is because they cannot afford to pay for access to these business-political clubs, which both the Left and the Social Democrats have, where you have to pay $20,000. to gain access to the ears of ministers. I don't know what caused this. I have just noticed it after sitting in the Committee on Industry for a few years and I do not think we are talking very much about this group. When I talk to them, capital may not really be the biggest question. Maybe that's not really what they're talking about most. One of the things I hear very much is the question of social security: that you have a great deal of difficulty in accessing maternity leave, that you have a great deal of difficulty in accessing unemployment benefits. Well, a CVR number is completely incompatible with the daily allowance; you have to close your business even if there are only problems for a short period of time. There is also the question of rental prices, i.e. how to secure them against exorbitant prices from business owners. In other words, there are a great many issues which concern these small businesses, which I think we are talking about very little. In fact, I believe that there is a need to create better conditions for the Danes who, if I may say so, have chosen to be their own employers. It is not because we should not talk about serial entrepreneurs, gazelles and all sorts of other things that we should do, but we just have to remember that there are a lot of people who never get there, but who nevertheless make up, if not the backbone, then at least a very important part of the Danish economy. But again I would like to thank the alternative for raising this debate or this corner of it, because, as the rapporteur also says, it is just part of a wider debate. And I have also promised to announce from the SF that they cannot support any of the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153152	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153158	The reason I am taking the floor is that Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that banks discriminate between small and large companies or different companies because there is an interest rate spread when borrowing money. After all, it reflects a risk, which is that you treat people equally according to the risks that are now present. Does Pelle Dragsted also believe that mortgage institutions discriminate when there are different interest rates, depending on which bonds are sold? In other words, interest rates reflect the risk that exists, and therefore people are treated equally. It is a risk assessment that people are treated on the basis of, and not how large the companies or how small the businesses are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153254	Now, in relation to the mortgage area, it is a bad comparison, because there it is actually the case that you must not discriminate between two lenders. You can tell some people that they can't get a loan, but you can't give anyone a loan at a lower interest rate than others. It is quite unique in the Danish mortgage system, something that many other countries do not have. But it doesn't really matter. I understand what the rapporteur is saying. What just puzzles me is that it is true that there is such an incredible difference between Denmark and the other EU countries. For small businesses, the interest rate differential is three times as high as it is for the EU average. We can compare, as I said, with Sweden. This is an analysis by the European Central Bank, and the funny thing is that the interest rate spread was actually about the same before the crisis, and then there has just been such a development here. In Sweden, interest rates are very low at 0.2 per cent, i.e. roughly the same interest rates for large loans and small loans to traders, while in Denmark we have a range of 2%, and it has even been as high as 3% if we go back to 2013. I just think that's interesting. So, what makes it so crucial in Denmark? It may be that the rapporteur has a good explanation for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153408	No, I don't have a good explanation for that, I'm not familiar with that. But it is the principle here that I dispute, that is to say, that Mr. Pelle Dragsted problematizes that there may be a difference in interest rates. Indeed, the issue of bonds is a very good example, because there is the risk on the bond that can lead to different interest rates, just as it is loans to different companies that can lead to different interest rates, depending on the risk. But it's treating people the same. You treat people from a risk, and of course you do when you borrow money. That's the way it is, and it's very good. If it wasn't good, I guess it wasn't like that when it happened like this all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153500	Well, I just found in all silence that Danish banks are apparently significantly worse at this than their colleagues in other countries, i.e. that there is simply a significant additional cost for small Danish companies compared to other countries' companies when you look at the spread between large and small. And, of course, the banks would rather, if you say so, suck up to the real big companies if you say it a little ugly, and the small ones are not as interested in it. But then I'm just saying that then we'll just be faced as business rapporteurs with a challenge that this discussion is about: access to capital. And I guess I don't feel like sir. Joachim B. Olsen in relation to this, always having full confidence that it's gonna change market forces itself. I think that if market forces are not in a position to solve a task, for example. to ensure good credit opportunities for small businesses, then it may be that we, as a community, need to step up, as we already do with the Innovation Fund, the Export Credit Fund and the Growth Fund and other things, and see if we should have a state credit facility also in relation to small self-employed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153605	There's one more question, sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153607	I have taken the good input for me and have also noted that SF says no like Enhedslisten. I just wonder a little bit, because I think this was a good speech for the small entrepreneurs, not necessarily one-man businesses, which I think is a different talk, but I understand that is fine. There are, at any rate, many problems in which, in the alternative too, we would very much like to ensure that small entrepreneurs also feel well through implementation and, in general, through a good social security network and the benefit system. However, the proposals that we are making here are about financing, the alternative financing for bank financing, which, after all, will have to take into account some other considerations than a private lender, and those initiatives are just intended for the smaller companies that cannot go out and show the same presentable facade as the big ones, who may be able to provide greater security. These proposals are intended precisely to strengthen micro-entrepreneurs. I would go so far as to say that the gazelles, at least the larger ones, and the growth entrepreneurs do not need our proposals at all. They suck people up, they're like magnets for investment. This is not the case in Denmark either. However, the proposals we are making here on funding for entrepreneurs are intended precisely for the group that I actually hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur cares about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153715	Well, I totally acknowledge that. In fact, I do not think I have said that we are opposed to the proposals. I have just said that we are sceptical about some things and that this is very much about where funding is found, because it is business support. So what I have said is that there are, like, two things that need to be fulfilled if we are to be able to support some of these proposals. One thing is that we have to talk about, for example. In other words, some of those who already have theirs pay something more, or change the business promotion system, or whatever it may be. Then we will look at it positively. The second point I have made is that, to the extent that these taxes are then used wherever they come from, we think that some requirements should be followed by the other way. But we are not against all these proposals as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153802	In fact, I think it is important to say that when we then give a private citizen the opportunity to lend to an entrepreneur who otherwise has difficulty in lending, then it is to move some money from perhaps a wealthy, perhaps just an ordinary citizen who has a perfectly normal budget. These are the money that should otherwise go to consumption or savings that does not really create anything in society • over to something that might actually set some small snowballs in motion. So I hear it quite clearly that there are also positive points in the rapporteur's view of the proposal. However, I still lack a recognition that we need to show confidence in these entrepreneurs if they are to create something as micro-entrepreneurs. Because we cannot actually demand from the banks that they offer the same favourable conditions to small entrepreneurs as to large companies that have a different liquidity. I would like that, but it will be difficult to implement, I think, to force the banks to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330153900	Longing and demanding, that is to say, one can at least try to see why there is the great gap between Denmark and many other countries, that is, what problems it is, whether it is monopoly or what it is that makes it so in Denmark. But I also fully understand this point about perhaps making small entrepreneurs more independent from the banks, that is a good thing. It is also for that matter to say that some of the employees' savings, rather than going into the banks, actually end up in some companies. I think that the ideas are good and I think that will be a good challenge and also a competitive challenge for the banks. So I fully acknowledge that. So I have this thought about whether it's too big a detour. In other words, would it be better to say that the money we spend we channel directly, when it is Community funds, if I may say so, via a kind of credit facility? But I recognise the good intentions of these proposals. There are these two considerations that are important to us. But I think it is very inspiring and that the entrepreneurship policy of the Alternative is very inspiring and balanced at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154004	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154012	Thank you for that, President. Now we are discussing the last three motions for resolutions from the Alternative. The first proposal, B 35, is to introduce a tax exemption for interest income of up to DKK 50,000. per years from private loans to entrepreneurship. It should be the case that the tax rules are designed in such a way that it is the return before tax, which determines where your money is placed, and not the return after tax. Otherwise, a situation arises where people place their funds where there is not necessarily the greatest return, and that is not good for society. I think that is a principle that should be followed in tax legislation. In addition, there is again the point that it is a question of certain companies. The difference between companies should also be avoided. Instead, it should be ensured that the general framework conditions are such that people can see an incentive to invest in companies. If the alternative can go along with it, we can get along a long way. B 36 we are somewhat more positive about. Here, the alternative is to improve the opportunities for tax-free allocation of employees in smaller entrepreneurial companies. In the 2016 Finance Act, LA was of course helped by the other parties to the agreement, and we are grateful that employees were given the opportunity to receive shares of up to 10%. of the annual salary. This reflects, of course, that it may be difficult for small businesses to attract skilled labour, perhaps because they do not have the money, but also because they take the risk of being employed in such a company. It can go downstairs and home. That's why we got this rule in place. I think it is quite right that taxation somewhere also reflects the risk you run and when you invest in something you run a greater risk. And if we want people to invest, I think it is okay that there is a differentiation between tax on wage income and tax on equity income. So we are more positive about this proposal. If it is something that can be introduced, it can, of course, if there are 90 mandates behind it, but I am not quite sure that there is one I do not know, but at least I would like to congratulate the alternative for that proposal. Then there is the last proposal in which the alternative proposes that self-employed entrepreneurs can invest in entrepreneurship without any tax on revenge. I am, in effect, pleased that the Minister of Taxation said that he had initiated an analysis in this area. I have to admit that, like other rapporteurs, I cannot fully understand what that will mean, nor can I fully see whether there will be any distortion, etc. Maybe there will be. At any rate, I think that this is a very creative proposal which deserves to be examined, and I am glad, as I said, that the tax minister will do so. The alternative is well aware that we will not be voting in favour of any of these motions for resolutions, and I do not know whether there are any more motions for resolutions on this subject from the Alternative either. There's been a lot lately. Now I have been a little critical of some of the other proposals, but I would like to praise the alternative for focusing on a good investment climate. I do not think that all the solutions are right, but it is good that there is a focus on a good investment climate in Denmark. Because we believe that there is a need for this to be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154506	There is no more coming today, but there is at least one comment from Mr Beazley. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154511	I was hurrying to take the floor because I would say that there are no more coming right now, not in this session. We have a whole package of entrepreneurs where there is plenty to take off, but I think we'll wait with them. I am glad that people have been patient throughout the day and have taken so many in a row. The comment I would just like to make to the rapporteur is merely a recognition of risk-taking when you go into a business that is at a completely new level, that is to say, an entrepreneurial business, one where you bet something or other. When you are employed there as an employee, either when you come from another country or when you are employed there as someone who comes from a larger company and says that you want to be here, you run a risk. So does the entrepreneur himself, and that is why we would like to recognise it, also with employee shares, which could immediately create a distortion socially, you could say, but it would so like to make a clue where it would benefit the whole of society afterwards. So it was just an acknowledgment of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154602	That's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154607	If the praise has been poured out to each other, we can go further in the ranks of rapporteurs. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154621	It is, after all, a mere cascade of proposals that the alternative is putting forward this afternoon. You can get the impression that it is like the tired hunter out in the bog who shoots up a bunch of ducks with hail and hopes that one of them can hit and so it is here too; you hope that one of them can hit so you can get some activities going here. And I understand that, because we also have a desire to do something here. I do not want to go through all three proposals in detail, but I want to say that we share the intention in these proposals, namely to ensure easier access to entrepreneurship, and we will be ready to discuss all these proposals. We ourselves have been tumbling with a proposal on crowdfunding, which we think makes good sense to make according to Swedish model. We have had the opportunity in the past to discuss employee shares in this Chamber, where we have also talked about a relaxation. Finally, there is the proposal that self-employed workers should also be able to invest. Perhaps the last proposal is what I myself have most questions about which several people have also mentioned in this debate, just as, as far as I can judge, it could well go and demand substantial funding, which would then have to be found and which is not indicated in the proposal in its current form. But I think the most important thing to say from this point of view is that we are in the same hunt as the Alternative, and if there is a minister who at some point also thinks it would be interesting to do anything other than set up a committee, but in fact we are also going to make legislation and some initiatives, then, like the Alternative, we will be jumping, I do not think, whatever the Minister may suggest, but we will at least be in the field we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154806	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330154813	Thank you. I would also like to start again by congratulating the Alternative for raising this important debate, which is about how we can make it easier for entrepreneurs to raise capital and attract skilled labour to startups. The three alternative resolutions we are debating are respectively a proposal for tax exemption on interest income for up to DKK 50,000. for private individuals to lend to entrepreneurial enterprises, a proposal for a higher ceiling on employee shares for entrepreneurial enterprises and, finally, a proposal for the release of funds from self-employed savings accounts for entrepreneurial investment. In general terms, I would say that we, the Conservatives, can support the intentions of all three proposals, but there are also some challenges and some limitations in the proposals which we think need to be clarified better. That is why we cannot support the proposals here and now, but instead we would like to wait for a joint initiative following on from the recommendations of the Entrepreneurs' Panel. Compared to the first proposal for a tax exemption of DKK 50,000. As I said, I find it sympathetic, but there are also some challenges, because there is some kind of bias in it. The Minister also said in his speech that we should then also define what is an entrepreneurial business and what is not. Then, in fact, I would rather we look at a general relaxation rather than target it to a narrow target group. But again, it has to be seen in the context of a concerted action. From the point of view of the motion for a resolution on the remuneration of employees' shares, this is something that we very much welcome in the Conservative People's Party. This may help to increase the motivation to make an extra effort to push a startup, while at the same time saving entrepreneurial liquidity during the start-up phase. However, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, there are already a number of options which actually mean that you can both save capital and motivate employees to perhaps take a risk in the start-up, by giving them, for example, a chance. some options and still this 10%. tax-free employee shares. So I actually agree that there is no need at present to change that. The last proposal, which has been discussed a great deal, is about releasing savings from the enterprise scheme for investment in entrepreneurship. We are, in fact, positive about this in relation to the intentions behind it. We think it's important. If we can bring some funds into play to promote entrepreneurship, we must be positive about it. Perhaps we would rather see a more general relaxation than just entrepreneurship, but of course that is something we are also ready to look at. But there are also some problems in this, and it has been mentioned a few times in this Chamber, and we would therefore also like to await the analysis which the Minister has set in motion and which will have to look at whether there can be any problems with it being exploited in relation to some tax considerations. With these words, I would just like to conclude by congratulating the alternative for raising this debate and for the three constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the acclaimed rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155143	Thank you for that, and thank you again for a good debate, including on the last three proposals. Today we have rounded out four proposals to promote entrepreneurship and, above all, the financing of entrepreneurship in Denmark. In the first proposal, where I had the hope that perhaps we could gather and actually vote it home, because it was one that corresponded to the previous government's presentation, I was reasonably close to the body. There I stuck to what that proposal was about. Now we have three, which my fellow rapporteurs have examined in a distinguished way for and against, and so I will allow myself to swing into the slightly higher air layers and talk a little about entrepreneurship, and why it is that we think it is so important in Denmark. It has been said today that it is a little too bad when we want to favour entrepreneurs rather than other companies, when we want to look at the sustainable and social level and not allow companies that, frankly, just create economic growth in Denmark. We want it all. We will help all those who want to create sustainable growth in Denmark. The advantage of looking at entrepreneurship in isolation right now is that we are also looking into a scenario where we are going to have a completely different labour market where we are not going to have as many of the ordinary jobs we know today for all the people who need a job. We are going to look into a future where not everyone has a job where you create value in society in areas other than necessarily by going to work. The posts that are going to disappear from the traditional industries we know today are being transformed into new ones. It may be that we end up with even more jobs; it may also be that we end up with a lot fewer, but the important thing is that we are able to implement ourselves and implement our local community, even so that it will benefit more than just oneself. That is why we do believe that our entrepreneurial priorities in the Alternative deserve to be allowed to lift themselves once in a while, without having to worry about whether it necessarily benefits the common fund now and here, or whether it benefits something economically in isolation. It is actually entrepreneurship for the sake of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, what we are doing now. Then you're going to make a lot of derived effects that are good for both the green and the social and the economic bottom line, but what we need is that you say across the country that we can't just look at the government, we can't just look at the Folketing, we can't just look at the companies and point the finger at those we now want to point the finger at, no, we have the responsibility ourselves. And there, for example, we do not have a business promotion today that is very much minded of the new world we are looking at; we do not have advisers who can go to a level where entrepreneurs need it; we do not have an adequate system that can make us just look at what mechanisms we are turning on from here or on which companies are turning, no, we need citizens to actually take responsibility. And that's what we're trying to do with these sources of funding. Whether it is crowdfunding, whether it is through improved opportunities to give employee shares, or whatever it is we offer, it is simply to say that the individual citizen should look around and ask: What is it I want to do to create in my community? Is there anything I can do? Can I not build an extra carport? Can I not go on the next holiday trip if I've been on two? You should be warmly welcomed. I like to travel myself, I also have a carport, but we would like to ask: could I do something else for this money? If I could secure my children, I could secure Denmark, could I ensure that those who are having trouble around could actually get better, by creating growth that was sustainable, and we created new jobs, and we also created opportunities for the individual entrepreneur, who may never be able to hire more than just himself, but have started himself? Can we create some opportunities for the person, the individual, who has to look forward to the first every month and ask: I wonder if I can make it? There may also be some in this Chamber besides me who have been looking at the first one for a few years and seen it as a little more boring than when you sit in the Folketing and know that something comes to the first one. It can be extremely distressing to sit as an entrepreneur and think: I wonder if I can make it. Someone has customers in the shop in something that points a whole year ahead because you have a reasonable deal. There are also many people who simply live from hand to mouth, probably on reasonable terms, but who do not know if you have a customer in two months' time. And these funding proposals could help to provide additional security to some of those who have the potential, some of those who have the competences, but who cannot stand up in the system we have today. We would like to show much greater confidence in some of the smaller companies that cannot show the same history as those who today have easy borrowing in the banks but who enjoy recognition in the community and who people trust and who, therefore, people dare to borrow money if we can just create a unified and orderly environment. So I would like to thank you very much for the debate, and I would like to say that, in general, when we look at entrepreneurship, we say: it is not just about creating economic growth, it is also about creating jobs, and it is about creating sustainable conditions, both socially and environmentally. And there is not enough just to let the banks lend to the big ones, we also have to look at ourselves and at our neighbours and say: how can we help from where we stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155654	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155658	Thank you very much for that and thank you for your speech after the debate. My question concerns the last point raised by the rapporteur, namely that of socially and environmentally sustainable behaviour. If that is what you want, is it not the case that these proposals from the Alternative that we are discussing today do not really include the incentives, if I may say so? It is a general support for the financing of entrepreneurship, whether it is entrepreneurship, such as: is targeted at a sustainable transition, or whether it is socio-economic companies that employ some with a small working capacity, and it could also be Uber or similar companies that thereby undermine proper working conditions. When I ask, it's because I think the alternative is generally trying to bring these three bottom lines. I am just not quite sure that I can see them in these three proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155801	I understand the question. There are, after all, some of the proposals where we have simply shaved away both the green and the social bottom line in order to approach a majority. That's what you can think about what you want. We would have rather presented it in its full size, where we brought all three bottom lines from the start and brought them very clearly, that is, what Enhedslisten's rapporteur wants. However, my point about standing here and talking a little more generally about entrepreneurship is that in the alternative we will actually stand by, that we will be investing in entrepreneurship, even without us, when we say yes to giving more lenient conditions to entrepreneurs in Denmark, being sure that it will create more social sustainability and better conditions for the environment, because we trust that entrepreneurs in Denmark actually have that social outlook. At the same time, in general terms, with our policy, both in social and in other areas, we ensure that we have the necessary network to ensure that there is good care in the community. So it is quite true that the proposals we have discussed here today are primarily aimed at helping entrepreneurs, and then we hope that there will be an effect that can subsequently be local and decentralised in terms of both the environment and the social.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330155912	This clarification is good because it is probably one thing that is very important to us in the Enhedslisten, namely that, to the extent that we use these kinds of taxpayers-funded subsidies and credits, some demands must also be made the other way. However, I fully recognise that creating businesses in itself can contribute positively or contribute positively to this. It's not that much. It's more like it's already happening. So the question is whether, when you go in and use public funds, you should use them to make a determined effort to encourage a particular behaviour. It is probably my basic view that it should be done. But then I have another very brief question. Now that public funds are being used, the rapporteur is so sure that it is always smartest to do so through tax deductions instead of, for example. to say that we spend the same billions on, for example. a government credit facility targeted entrepreneurs and small enterprises?
ParlaMint-DK_20170330160005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330160007	We have an idea in the alternative that we want smaller states and more communities. This results, among other things, in a number of areas. in that we would like it to be the citizens who take the initiative to lift some of it, so that we do not just go and wait for state funding. In other words, we want the citizens to go in and say what they want to co-finance. If we go on to talk about whether it is state aid or publicly funded, then there is clearly that direction in this and there is something else that would go into a common fund. But for us it is also about giving priority to the citizen: do I want to take the money I have standing in my account and create something with them and make that choice myself, or should I be taxed by them, and then they go somewhere else? This is a distinction and a balance, but we have great confidence that citizens want to contribute to investing locally and in sustainable entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330160053	There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. René Gade. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motions for resolutions be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170330160109	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 31 March 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
