ParlaMint-DK_20170518100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: René Gade (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Commission of Inquiry into the Tax scandal). The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors, I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred directly to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100049	The item listed as No. 17 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100103	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100144	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 109 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Lotte Rod (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 109 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 108 by Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Stine Brix (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100310	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 106 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Trine Bramsen (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). And a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA, and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 106 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 107 of Rune Lund (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100420	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100438	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100528	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100556	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100614	Thank you. I am taking the floor because there has been a great deal of debate in this Chamber and in the committee and also in public about what Parliament can do for the foreign dancers affected by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I am taking the floor because we in the Danish People's Party think it is important to make it clear that it is not Denmark's strict immigration policy that affects the Danes concerned in this case. That is not what prevents them from living in Denmark with their families. On the contrary, it is the international conventions and the parties which put the conventions above our compatriots who prevent Denmark from helping the Danish citizens concerned. The absurd thing is that when a majority votes through this bill in the near future, the Folketing will therefore once again stress that the saying of nothing above and nothing beside the Folketing has long lost its meaning. In a number of areas, the Folketing has gradually reduced itself to a rubber stamp, which now, on the order of a supranational body, has blue-stamped a decision depriving Danish citizens of rights and depriving them of the opportunity to be with their family in Denmark. It is wrong to blame the tight immigration policy for the situation of several foreign dancers. The responsibility lies with the parties who believe that a convention is more important than Danish sovereignty and more important than the Danes who are affected by the decision. Then there will be those who say "and it has also been said that we can only make concessions for everyone, because then the Danes concerned would be able to bring the family here." That is actually true, but the price for it will be a ruined Denmark, and Denmark has been destroyed so abundantly in advance due to a lack of political leadership and political will to do the right thing. So it's not a solution. The Danish People's Party votes no to abolish the 26-year rule, and we call on the rest of the Danish Parliament to do the same in vain, because it would mean that we are helping the Danes concerned on the one hand and sending a clear signal to supranational bodies, namely that Denmark can itself and that we also want to decide for ourselves. We do not need a nannies to keep an eye on us, and if we wish to grant special rights to our own nationals or a group of our own citizens or otherwise give positive treatment to Danes, we will decide for ourselves. We have to decide how to do this ourselves. Therefore, the Danish People's Party votes no to repeal a rule that helps Danes, and the rest of the Danish Parliament should do the same. A case-law has developed that is in every way unreasonable. The international conventions and the interpretation of these require Denmark to grant positive treatment to refugees when they want to bring their families to Denmark, while at the same time prohibiting Denmark from granting positive treatment to Danes who want to bring their families to Denmark. In the view of the Danish People's Party, this is unfair and basically also morally reprehensible. For this reason, the Danish People's Party votes "no' and we call on the parties in the Folketing, including the government and the Social Democrats, who intend to vote "yes', to reconsider their position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100915	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100919	Thank you. One can, of course, interpret what discriminates as one wishes. The Danish People's Party then thinks that it is human rights that I now think it is the Danish alien law that is creating this problem. We have talked so much about human rights in various debates, and I would really like to ask very briefly whether it is human rights as such that the Danish People's Party wants to abolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518100946	No, but we just think that Danes are a kind of people, and that is why they must also have rights, and if this Parliament decides that there are some rights that must apply to Danes because they are citizens of this country, then of course it is entirely legitimate. We find it utterly hopeless that there is an international convention which prohibits the Danish Parliament from granting special rights to Danish nationals in general or to a group of Danish nationals. In our view, this is a completely unreasonable and unacceptable case-law that we want to put an end to, and we think that all parties in this Parliament should have the ambition to put an end to international bodies which prohibit the Danish Parliament from implementing legislation, which is actually a majority in favour of the Danish Parliament, because that is quite undemocratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101032	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101034	Again it says: we want human rights, but only when it suits us. Human rights are universal and do the Danish People's Party wish to abolish universal human rights? That is what we need to get an answer to. One stands here on the platform and says: We like them, but only parts of them when it suits us. Then it is the abolition of human rights that is being advocated, and that is what I would like an answer to in such an important matter as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101100	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101102	There are no universal rights. It may well be that they are on paper that the European Convention on Human Rights applies only in Europe and for a number of European countries, but it does not apply to Australia and China, so it is not universal rights that we are talking about here. We just want common sense to prevail. We hope that if a majority in this Parliament takes the view that a strict immigration policy must be pursued and recognizes that when you want to pursue a strict immigration policy, you sometimes get to hit some people that you basically don't want to hit, such as Danish citizens, then that majority must of course have the opportunity to do so, i.e. to make a low special arrangement for the Danes who would otherwise be affected, while at the same time wishing to maintain a strict immigration policy. Well, that's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101147	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That does not seem to be the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101152	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 60 (S, V, LA and KF), against 47 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101235	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101246	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 90 (S, V, DF, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101336	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 109 (S, V, DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101436	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101508	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101542	The amendments to L 178 will be put to the vote first. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Then we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 179. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101621	The debate is open, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, would like the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518101645	Thank you. The draft law is about whether more marine farms can be established in Denmark and about the expansion of existing marine farms. We have had an expert hearing which was very good and which should have an impact on what the Folketing decides. We have also had a number of committee meetings, and at the last Environment Committee meeting a vote agreement was then presented which was not discussed in committee. I think there is a good reason why there should be an opportunity to put questions to the vote agreement and have it dealt with before a third reading. It is very interesting to see to what extent this voting agreement can affect the content of a notice after the bill has been adopted. I find it rather disappointing that the blue block does not see that the desire in the agricultural package for more marine farms collides with the demand to work to ensure that good environmental quality is achieved in marine areas around Denmark. Only two areas out of 117 areas have good quality, and this bill creates more pollution. I'm wondering if this is the same expert hearing we've been in. There is no room for environmental choice, and a little seaweed cultivation cannot solve the problems. And mussel farming will create new problems that cannot be solved by cultivating seaweed. I think the superior in this is that the bill undermines the overall Danish environmental effort. If you take a married couple who live far out in the countryside outside sewers, yes, they can be faced with quite expensive environmental requirements just to deal with 10 kg of nitrogen from the small family. If you look at what the municipalities have spent on investments in wastewater treatment plants and how far they have gone, you have to say that it has been large investments. The Municipality of Norddjurs alone has invested 1.6 billion. kr. to clean his sewage. We have a population on Djursland of approx. 80,000 inhabitants, who pay 100 million annually. kr. to clean their sewage containing 400 tonnes of nitrogen before it is cleaned. At the same time, we have an agriculture which, since the 1980s, has managed to halve its nitrogen pollution and has to reduce further and which can come into unequal competition with marine food without environmental requirements. We have an agriculture which, overall, must reduce its nitrogen pollution in order to achieve good water quality in the seas around us. And then there will be some companies and will make three marine farms in Kattegat close to Djursland and extract 300 tonnes of nitrogen out of the 800 tonnes that the agricultural package will allow. That's fucked up. 300 tonnes of extra nitrogen, yes, that pollution is in fact equivalent if we allowed 2,700 high-performance dairy cows to have their feces led directly into the sea at Djursland. This does not stand in the future's food production. This bill is far-fetched and simply too foolish. If we are to have more fish farming, it must be on land under controlled conditions, and that is also the course laid down in the agreement on the next three years' fisheries policy, on which all parties agreed yesterday in the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The parties behind that agreement will prioritise more sustainability in aquaculture. This draft law does not provide for that at all. The vote agreement between the Social Democratic Party, the DF and the government may be useful, but we have a number of questions to answer before the third reading of the bill, and that is why we propose that the bill be sent to committee after this second reading. I think it would be interesting to get a clear answer as to how many tonnes of nitrogen can be collected if you rely on some mussel farming, in other words on the information obtained from the expert hearing. Similarly, it would be interesting to make clear how few kilos of nitrogen can be collected by cultivating some seaweed. I also think it would be appropriate to establish whether it is true that, on the basis of the expert hearing, it can be established that there is no room for environmental scope for more polluting marine farms. The vote agreement describes some requests for the forthcoming announcement. It is proposed that new marine farms, which are to establish compensatory systems with mussels or other, should be phased in over two years. Should the vote agreement be understood as closing off marine production if the marine instruments do not work? Or it may end up with such plants continuing at 50 per cent. of the planned production? Then there is the whole problem of salmon lice, which is also addressed in the vote agreement. I think it would be appropriate to put forward what it is for some areas in Denmark, where it can then be ruled out that there will be new aquaculture. As I said, we want this matter back in committee after the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102146	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102155	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3, by a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA, KF and 1 EL (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Amendment No 5, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapses. 4, by a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 by a minority (RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now you have had a break to go out and chat, so I would like to have some quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102543	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102620	Does anyone want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102658	We shall first proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 155. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1°41, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Then we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to L 156. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-38, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102740	The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Education first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518102808	With the resolution the Socialist People's Party wishes to be able to give a supplementary tariff for Danish teaching of bilingual languages in post-schools with temporary residence permits. The proposers want to amend in concrete terms section 32 of the grant notice so that the word is permanently deleted. Let me start by stating that the government cannot support the proposal. This proposal is justified by the fact that afterschools can do something very special with regard to the integration of young refugees in the form of adult contact, strengthening resilience and independence, as well as new communities. I and the rest of the government agree that afterschools can offer something very special to many young people. Afterschools are free schools, and I believe that it is to a large extent the freedom of schools to create schools which help to make the post-school school a very special place for many young people. However, the motion for a resolution before us calls for a change in the law. It is clear from a legal note to the law that only pupils with Danish citizenship or permanent residence permit can be included in the post-school calculation of pupils at the supplementary rate. I have recently published a freedom package with a number of proposals for a change of law for the post-schools. The freedom package should help to ensure the freedom of the post-schools to make good and exciting school offers for pupils who choose a post-school stay. The proposals in the freedom package are also about framework conditions. It has been important to me that we should have an overall discussion of the various proposals and not implement a number of individual proposals such as this. This creates the best possible basis for decision-making in order to change the framework conditions of the schools. I have initially discussed the freedom package with all the parties of the Danish Parliament at a meeting of the Ministry of Education on Thursday, May 11, 2017. On the basis of the reports at this meeting, I have decided that the proposal for a supplementary tariff for Danish teaching of bilingual languages in secondary schools with temporary residence permits should not be included in the draft law, as it is important to me that the freedom package has broad support in the Folketing. I look forward to further discussions on the framework conditions of the post-schools in connection with Parliament's examination of the draft law on the freedom package in the autumn. I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for its resolution. It is important that we focus on the framework conditions of the post-schools to run good and exciting school, but the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103029	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103045	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for taking the initiative to make this post-school freedom package. I think that is very good, and I also know that the post-school world is happy about that. I think it will also make it easier to run post-school in Denmark. So I think that's really good. When the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution, it is because it is both a wish of the Afterschool Association, but also something that will be very good, I think, for the integration of young people and often unaccompanied refugees who come here without a network. I think they'd really like to go to post-school. At the national meeting of the Liberal Alliance, the Minister of Education was out saying that it would be voted for here and that it would be included in the new package. And the Minister was actually asked by TV 2 Nord whether the Minister would guarantee that this was voted for. It was recorded on camera, and the Minister of Education said that yes, the Minister would like to guarantee that the government voted in favour. Then the question is how many other parties will be happy about it, but we guaranteed that we would vote in favour. So why is it that we are not going to vote in favour of this proposal, which I think will be very good for integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103159	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103200	The item has been included in the package, but after an overall discussion with the parties in the Folketing it has been deleted. It is clear that when we took it along, it was because we thought it would be a good idea to include it, and when it comes out, it is because we want to have broad support for the post-school freedom package. We think that there may be some consideration for the individual who could speak in order to include it, but we are also listening to the arguments that may be against it, and that is in relation to the overall consideration that Denmark should not be a dependent country. There we have simply chosen to listen to the voices saying that this is not going to be included, and that is why the package ends up not having that element.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103250	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103251	Nor do I think we are going to be a supporting country because we want to support the refugees, for example. has come alone. Basically, a post-school can be supported today if they have a young immigrant with permanent residence, but not if they have a refugee with a temporary stay, and they think that they themselves are crazy. I don't think we're gonna be any more dependent on doing this. So I just want to hear about something: how broad is the support needed? Is it the Danish People's Party alone that depends on it to be able to vote through this or can the Minister say something about how many mandates we have to get up to before one can imagine this proposal could be voted through?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103330	No, I can't say anything completely vicious about that. I can say that the proposal was originally included because we thought that there could be some good tactics in it, and now it is not included as a result of the discussions that have taken place on the freedom package.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103347	Thank you, Minister. There are no further comments. The next one is sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103405	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for this motion for a resolution. I think there are some very good considerations and intentions behind it. We very much agree with what the SF also writes in the motion for a resolution that the post-schools can do something very special, including in the field of integration. Integration is, of course, a lot about establishing relations between those who come to our country from outside, and so we who are here already, and the post-schools are really good at forming relationships between our young people. So we believe that the post-schools can do something special, including in the field of integration. That is why we want to help look at the framework that exists today so that the post-schools can contribute to the integration task that we have in Denmark. This proposal provides for the possibility that it is not only bilingual with a permanent residence permit, but also bilingual with a temporary residence permit, which should be eligible for this special Danish teaching grant for bilingual. We have some questions about the concrete model. How is this to be done in concrete terms? How much does it cost? The motion for a resolution does not state how it is to be financed. A number of options have been mentioned in the motion for a resolution, and it does not matter to us how to finance something like this. It is mentioned that it can be financed within the current framework of the post-schools. That sounds good to us, but where's the money taken from there? For example, is it... from some of the pools that go to other vulnerable young people going to post-school? What exactly does this have to do with these things? We are basically positive, and then we are a little too sorry that the Minister has pulled it out of the overall package, because we certainly think it is relevant to discuss it. However, there are some things that we need to get to grips with in relation to the concrete model before we can finally say whether we support this particular motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103617	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103634	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution, nor will it come as a surprise to the rapporteur for the proposers. The reason for this is actually quite simple: In his time, the Danish Folkeparti Fødskole association helped to get immigrant students with permanent residence permits in Denmark to attend a post-school. We support that. We think this is excellent, because the post-schools are good at integrating, and a stay at a post-school will always be an excellent opportunity for a student. But here it is about refugee children with temporary residence permits, and refugees should not become immigrants in Denmark. I don't want them here forever. Refugees are going back home. Therefore, it does not make sense to treat them as immigrants; that is, as people who have to stay here all the time. In addition, we also take funds from Danes and their children. After all, some funds could be set aside so that children of low-income families could have a better chance of going to a post-school school. We know from studies that it is often the children of parents with good incomes who send their children to a post-school stay, because it costs a lot of money. In recent years, a great deal has been done to give children from low-income families a better opportunity to attend a post-school school, and that is something we support. However, in order for these rates to be graduated more, it requires a change of law, and we will have to look at that later. However, the resolution itself is about the fact that refugees are actually seen as immigrants, who must be here permanently. They don't have to. They're going back home. That is why it makes no sense to try to integrate them, for example. through a post-school stay. That is the simple reason why the Danish People's Party cannot accept the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103902	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518103907	Thank you. Now it seems that it is the rapporteur who is now standing on the platform who is causing this proposal to fail. That's politics. I think this is a little too bad, because I think it could help to promote integration. That is what the debate is about: should we promote integration, or should we not, when it comes to young people with a temporary residence permit? I know that the Danish People's Party believes that integration should not be promoted when it is people on temporary residence. However, I would just like to say that the rapporteur recognizes that some of these young people, for example. do they come as unaccompanied refugee children, very often end up in Denmark? Many of them stay here until after 8 years they can have permanent residence under the old legislation. Many of them are unable to return home. The experience of the previous wars shows this. What does the rapporteur really think they should do in Denmark while waiting to be able to return home, or while waiting for a permanent stay? Are they just gonna sit around and watch?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104003	Now they go to school and they get the opportunity to take an education, but there is no need to give them any special funding when we have so many Danish families who cannot afford to send their children to a post-school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104017	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104018	I would like to take this opportunity to ask you something else, but which is connected with it with children from low-income groups. It is the case today that you can get a subsidy from the state depending on whether you are from a low-income group or have parents who earn a lot of money. Does the rapporteur think that the subsidy system should be changed in such a way that those from low-income groups have a better chance of going to post-school, while those who have a little more wealthy parents get a little less in grants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104050	Now the law is that there are two tariffs. We could change that law, so it was a graduated tariff: the more you make, the more you pay. I think we can look at that with the Minister. I've recently had a meeting with the Afterschool Association about it. I'm willing to take a look at that. I think that would actually be a good idea, because then you would also have more children from low-income families in post-school, which benefits many. After all, a post-school stay has good consequences for many students, including: educationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104131	Thank you. Then it's mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104134	Thank you. And thank you for your speech and for the comments that the post-schools can also make a positive contribution in the area of integration. But I just have a question about the Danish People's Party's view of Danish education for refugees who have not yet been granted permanent residence permits, i.e. Danish education for refugees with a fixed-term residence permit. Is the Danish People's Party generally opposed to Danish education for refugees with a fixed-term residence permit, or is it only exactly Danish education for this group in post-schools that you are opposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104208	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104209	In general terms, therefore, we feel that refugees must return to their country of origin as soon as possible and, in the time they are here, we must provide them with the tools they need to be able to return. That is our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104228	Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104229	But one of the requirements for permanent residence permits, and that is quite reasonable, is that you can Danish at a relatively good level. How does the rapporteur envisage learning Danish if the rapporteur does not want to support the fact that teaching in Danish is actually available while still only having a temporary residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104252	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104254	Well, that's where, among other things. Social democracy is getting lost. The point is not, of course, that refugees should become immigrants. Refugees must return home as soon as conditions allow them to do so as soon as possible. It's usually best for themselves. Turning refugees into immigrants is a misunderstanding, and that is the whole background to the miser we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104317	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104320	Thank you. Sometimes we are so busy scolding the young people in our society who commit crime. But with reference to the fact that many of them may not have grown up under the same conditions as Danish children, and that in some way they have a segment in our society which is harder to behave properly, I would like to ask: could it perhaps mean something if we gave some of these children who have temporary residence permits, many of whom are given a permanent residence permit later, some conditions that give them the opportunity to come on a much more equal footing with the Danish children, as the rapporteur calls it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104357	The Danish People's Party will not be involved in the special treatment of refugee children with a temporary residence permit. We want to strengthen opportunities for a post-school stay for e.g.: children from low-income families, and they are both Danish children and indeed children of immigrants with a permanent residence permit. We have helped to raise funds for this. So I really think it is a rather strange discussion that a special allowance should be given to children of families who should not be here permanently. They have to be here temporarily, they have to return home, and the more opportunities we give them to stay in Denmark, the harder it will be for them to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104454	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104456	But an average armed conflict lasts something that looks like 10-15 years, so many of these children are not facing a return to their homes; many of them are actually staying in Denmark, many of them being granted a residence permit. I do not know the figure, but it would be interesting to know how many of the children who are temporarily staying are granted a residence permit. So in the long run, it can only be in everyone's interest to give these children some conditions that make it easier for them to integrate into Danish society. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104521	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104523	In other words, what is crucial is that we get them back as soon as possible, either to those parts of the country where there is peace or, once there is complete peace, to the whole country. There are many opportunities for setting up some centres in the neighbourhoods. I think that is actually the right model. We cannot solve all the problems of the world, and a post-school stay for refugee children with temporary residence permits would mean that we would then put a permanent residence permit in perspective for them. This is not the policy that the Danish People's Party stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104559	Thank you to the rapporteur and there will be no further brief comments. But there is a new rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104606	Thank you. As the Minister also mentioned, the government does not support this motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, on the Left side, we do believe that the post-schools are doing a very good job for a great many young people. I myself have been working on the post-school area for all the time I have been sitting in the Folketing, i.e.. Since 2011. And as a mother, I have also experienced how your children can move after 1 year in post-school. So there should be no doubt that we in the Left know that the post-schools are right, really good at strengthening young people's abilities and giving them some good skills in terms of both becoming more self-employed and for that matter getting their self-esteem strengthened. In this way we can easily see that the post-schools have potential for integration, but we do not think that the post-schools in this way should have special support to deal with the problem raised by the SF with this motion for a resolution. In the Left, we clearly support the freedom package presented by the Minister quite a short time ago, and we also support the Minister in saying that it is important to look at this in a context. However, we understand that a point has been chosen to be removed from the freedom package. All in all, therefore, we support the increased levels of freedom that we must give to the post-schools, but to begin to give a special hand to this group of young people in particular, the Left is not in favour. So, overall, we will be voting against the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. But I hope that the SF will also support the things we will discuss later or in the next parliamentary assembly when we hope to increase the degrees of freedom for the post-schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104825	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104827	Thank you. Well, I think the freedom package is excellent. I have fought for that freedom package since I was elected, both with the current minister and with the former minister, and I also signed for it to come. I really liked it in its original form, because there was exactly this motion for a resolution in the motion for a resolution. In other words, it must also have been recognised in the government that this is a good proposal to promote integration. Otherwise, I don't think the government itself would have played out with it. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that young people who are permanently resident should be able to receive special support for Danish as a second language. Because that is what we are talking about, that is, that there are some young people, immigrants who have permanent residences, who can receive special support for Danish as a second language, while those refugees who are likely to be very long in Denmark cannot get it because it says that it is not for those who have a temporary status. So will the rapporteur also remove the possibility of special support for those who are here permanently, because it is my view that the post-schools are really happy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104934	Thank you, and here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518104935	Well, me and the Left have no plans to start changing that part. I can say that we in the Left fortunately have an incredibly close dialogue with the Afterschool Association on various issues, as I believe the SF's rapporteur also has. And I have to say that what I have been able to follow in recent years, including in the area of post-school education, is that the post-schools have made a huge effort to get hold of this group of young people as well. Among other things: I know that special financial free zones have been earmarked for that group and that, in many places, people may be more struggling to get these young people to accept these offers. So you actually have free space available today, but the task may be more to get the young people to accept these offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105035	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105036	I am glad that the legislation will not be amended, so that those who are immigrants and are here permanently will no longer be able to receive special support for, for example, those who are immigrants. Danish as a second language, because I think it promotes integration and promotes that they learn Danish. And that's something we usually fight for together in this Parliament. So the rapporteur cannot explain to me: if the Left is in favour of young immigrants with permanent residence being able to learn Danish as a second language, why is it that young refugees, who are likely to be here for many years and who have come alone, do not benefit from it? Why aren't they supposed to be supported when the others have to? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105117	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105118	As I said just now, I actually think that the framework we have given to the post-schools is very good. I also think that the support we generally give to the post-schools is good, and in the meetings I hold with post-schools I find that in their own way they make sure that they try to get to many different of these young people. I would like to stress that whether it is about afterschools or high schools, they are actually very good at supporting many of the Danish democratic values and, for that matter, getting it under the skin of these young people. So I don't think there's a particular reason to start giving an extra handshake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105217	If you know the post-school world, I do not think there is any doubt that the post-schools can play an incredibly positive role in integrating refugee children. They can do that in a number of ways. They can, because the way they have created the educational environment and the way young people have the opportunity to be with other young people around the clock, so to speak, not only for the education they are participating in, but also for all leisure activities and association, mean an incredible amount in terms of bringing children and young people into the community. It means a lot to young people who do not know our culture and are about to get acquainted with it first, that they can work up these close relationships with other young people. It means a lot to adults. It gives some other options. The fact that you have the very close relationships with teachers, with contact persons, and who it may be - it is built up a little differently in the post-schools - the fact that you have the close, close relationships with adults in the post-school school provides, as well as the association with other children, some fantastic opportunities to get to know our culture and get an understanding of our society, and thus it also paves the way for rapid integration. So it is in this area, I think, unique what the post-schools can do, and that is why it is a very good proposal that the SF has put forward, namely that we create the legal basis for not only the refugee children who have a permanent residence permit, but that it is also the young refugees with a temporary residence permit who will be able to receive Danish as a second language in a post-school. As you know, it is not possible for the post-schools to finance and carry out Danish education for this group, and it is quite reasonable that the proposal should now be dealt with here. I would say that I had thought that it would be superfluous after the discussion we had the other day in the Ministry of Education, where it was my impression at least during a very large part of the meeting that there was broad agreement among the parties that this was an important element of the package that was put forward about real changes in the post-schools, and I must say that I am sorry that the government has allowed the Danish People's Party to decide that this rule change should not take place. I took note of the fact that Mr. Jacob Mark asked how wide-ranging conciliation should really be, and I think that a settlement that could bring together more than 140 members of the Folketing might not have been so narrow that it did something. So I have to say that I think it is really a pity that we cannot decide this together and thus give a strong hand to young people who are in this country without having a permanent residence permit and strengthen their integration. We warmly support the SF proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105549	Thank you. The idea of motion for a resolution No. B 134 is to equate persons who have a temporary residence permit with persons who have a permanent residence permit in the case of grants for Danish education at a post-school. It is a proposal which I do not think can be dealt with in isolation from the post-school freedom package which the Folketing is also dealing with in another context at the moment. And even if there is no such thing in itself inferior to it, it is a very good proposal with a clearly described rationale, then for me the consideration is that we can get a very broad majority in order to support the overall freedom package, in advance. I think this is good governance because it calms down the post-schools and it signals broad support for them. And, in relation to the freedom package, the parliamentary landscape is such that support for Danish education for those with a temporary residence permit cannot become part of what we regard as a broad-based agreement. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105725	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105728	Yes, I am glad that the rapporteur thinks it is a good proposal. It could also be said that this would be strange other, since I have copy-pasted it from the national meeting of the Liberal Alliance and, with the inspiration of the Minister of Education, thought that we should deal with it in the Chamber, so that we are sure that we will get it through. What it looks like is that all parties other than the Danish People's Party are, as a starting point, positive about this proposal, and now you have chosen not to implement it anyway, even though the Afterschool Association thinks it is a good idea, and even though the Liberal Alliance thinks it is a good idea. So I'm just gonna ask you a little bit about the same thing. Now Mr. Jakob Silver mound it: When there are approx. 140 mandates for that proposal, so I must say that I think it is a fairly broad majority. And I heard that as if it were before today. How broad should the majority be before the Liberal Alliance thinks that is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105826	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105827	At any rate, they have to be more than 90 seats, but I do not think we can give such a completely fixed and finished recipe for when such a majority is broad. In other words, it also plays a role for me personally, and I am so crying dry tears that point 6 of the freedom package has been taken out. I think that is a good thing. That is why I am pleased that we can also get DF, which is, of course, a driving force in making political agreements in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105900	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518105906	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I shall start by saying that we are very much in favour of this, and I think it is one of the most sensible resolutions we have been dealing with in this Chamber for a long time. First of all, it is children and young people that we are dealing with children and young people who come, many of them from conflict zones, have experienced war, violence, maybe they have lost parents, and then they come to Denmark. All we can say is that you have to get back home quickly instead of saying that we actually have an offer for you. You can go to a post-school with other children, you can get in a safe environment, you can go somewhere where you actually know how to take care of you. We give you some opportunities to learn Danish, which can make the permanent residence permit that you will most likely have in not very long time easier to get and that you will be more easily integrated into Danish society. We are talking about children and young people, so I am completely dismayed that in this way you can stand up and say that we will not do so in Danish society, because these children and young people just have to return home as soon as possible. That's one thing. Secondly, what is happening to the Liberal Alliance? This is an element that comes from the party's own minister. It is a proposal that was included in the package and the rest of us were happy when we saw it and thought how wonderful it is that we can gradually, in a broad majority, begin and agree on what kind of policy we would like to pursue in the field of education. This is a political question. It is extremely important to dare to take these fights, and now we have a minister who is doing what he proposes, where we can, in a broad political majority, see the sense of it from some human arguments and also from some perspectives on what kind of society we really want. Then there's one party that doesn't want to, and then an entire government falls on its back and says, no, hey, by the way, we'll pull it away again. Where is our will to hold on to what we want politically instead of it becoming such a tactical game, in relation to that no we should rather and in any case we will have to clap some on our shoulders, because otherwise... Well, this is the Danish Parliament, so I get so incredibly indignant that we don't have all the parties that support this can be allowed to say that of course we want to. That's a very good suggestion. After all, one cannot but take note of the fact that there is one party that stands up for itself so much and chooses to do so, and that is one's right to do so, and the rest of us should not decide that, but I would just like us to start discussing content policy and to support each other when there is something we agree on in the Folketing, rather than backing it up because we are afraid of what the parliamentary situation will look like in the future. So I'm not impressed with the government, and I'm not impressed with the Liberal Alliance in this situation. On the contrary, I would have liked the Liberal Alliance to stick to their own proposals, because it had, of course, dressed our democracy and our parliamentary institution somewhat more. So praise to the SF for putting it forward. Of course, we fully support the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110229	Thank you to the rapporteur. The radical rapporteur is not here, and then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110303	For the Conservative People's Party, it is important to help create good conditions for the post-schools. Afterschools must have the freedom to make good and exciting offers, and the freedom package presented by the government must help to ensure this. As the Minister mentioned in his speech, the Minister has decided that the proposal for a supplementary tariff for Danish education in post-schools of bilingual with temporary residence permits is taken out, as it is important that the freedom package gets broad support here in the Folketing. In view of this, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution, and we are now looking forward to further discussions here on the framework conditions of the post-schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110357	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110404	Thank you for the debate. I should like to begin by welcoming the Radical Left and saying that they support the proposal and are also sorry that it is not included in the freedom package. I heard about this proposal quite a long time ago. It was just when I had been elected to the Folketing, and the Afterschool Association came and said to me: Jacob, all people are discussing refugees in Denmark right now and how we can integrate them. We think we can. But we could use a little help by changing the rules so that the young refugees who go to post-school can get some special support for what is called Danish as a second language, so that they are better placed to learn Danish from people who are trained to deal with children who have a language other than Danish as their starting point. I think that sounded like a very good idea, because we spend an incredible amount of time discussing how we can stop the influx of refugees to Denmark. This is one thing in itself, but so we spend a little time discussing how the refugees we then get to Denmark can be integrated in the best way. I think that is a pity, because it is really the most important thing. So I was glad to see that at the national meeting of the Liberal Alliance, which I saw at home from the couch, the Minister of Education looked forward and said that a package of post-school freedom would now be presented, in which exactly this proposal would be included, and the argument of the Minister of Education was quite clear: it would strengthen integration. It was nice to have the same analysis as the Minister for Education, I thought, and the Minister even said that the other parties could vote as they wanted, but she guaranteed that the government would vote in favour. Now I hear all the governing parties say that they will not. After all, we have had a bit of experience with the work of intergovernmental cooperation, so it made me think that it might be very good to get stuck in the table. It's just too bad if the table is a roll table. We learned that at that time, and I have to say that it is quite a pity that, after proposing such good things, we choose to run away from them so soon after that. One might then ask whether there is any reason to run from such a good proposal, and I cannot see anyone. The post-school association itself has said that they want to take responsibility for it and that it is something that they think can strengthen the post-schools, and they also want to help find funding. I have also heard widely in the Folketing as well as recognition of the post-school work and also recognition of the fact that it is not the funding that is the problem in this issue. So I think I will just say to the broad majority, which I think there is, or was, because this proposal is that we are going to work on it. I heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that one would like to look at whether, for example, one would like to look. should look at the grant that Danes get to attend post-school. It may be that you can take it up again on another occasion. We will do so, because we believe that it strengthens integration. I would like to deal briefly, and this is also about integration, with what Mr Delors of the Danish People's Party has said. Alex Ahrendtsen says that young refugees must return home as soon as possible. Young refugees often come here as unaccompanied persons. They are placed at a reception centre, and then they have to go to the Danish society where they are quite often completely alone. I have taught a reception class myself, and many of them do not have the shadow of a network and have real difficulty learning Danish. They'd be really good to go to a post-school. Some of them are going to stay in Denmark, and they do, because we know that conflicts often take up to 15 years, so it will take up to 15 years before they can return home. What are they gonna do in the meantime? Are they just gonna sit around and watch? One might also ask oneself: What if they learn another language and end up going home? What if a Syrian refugee child, who comes here and is here for five years and goes to post-school and gets Danish friends and a network, learned another language, and then at some point had to go home? Would that be so wrong? Then we have contributed to a person being better educated, and I do not think that is bad; I think that is actually a quality. So SF is fighting for this because we believe that afterschools and colleges and free vocational schools and the other good school offers can help to boost integration. And thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110840	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110858	The debate is open, and first it is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518110911	Thank you. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. This gives us an opportunity to discuss an important issue, namely whether there is a need to introduce a tariff ceiling into the municipal school break arrangements. The motion for a resolution requires the government to set a ceiling on parental pay for school freetime schemes corresponding to the ceiling for leisure homes, i.e. 30 per cent. of the cost of an SFO space. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. The motion for a resolution is based on the fact that there should have been a sharp increase in the own-payment for a SFO site and that there has not been a sufficient reduction in the tariff due to the extended school days of the reform of the primary school. If you look at the facts, you can see that the SFO tariffs for the age group 6-9 years have increased steadily from DKK 19,058. in 2007 to DKK 20,447. in 2013. In 2015, when the tariffs fully reflected the impact of the reform of the primary school, the average tariff level decreased to DKK 17,662. for the 6-9-year-olds. In 2017, it is at the same level, i.e.: Dkr 17,658. Thus, in recent years, the level of tariffs in the SFO has not been increasing, and in the context of the reform of primary schools it has decreased, so that as a national average it reflects the reduced opening hours due to the longer day of school. From 2013 to 2015, the level of the tariff in the SFO has thus decreased by 13,6%. for the 6-9 year olds and by 15.6 per cent. for 10-13-year-olds. I would point out that the data base available does not make it possible to accurately estimate the reduced opening time, but the tariff reduction was probably slightly less than the reduced opening time, as this was estimated at 15-20 per cent in the context of the reform of primary schools. I note that the level of fares in leisure homes has developed in the same way as the SFO tariffs in the years around the reform of primary schools. From 2013 to 2015, the rate in leisure homes thus decreased by 15.5%. 6-9 year olds and 16.4%. for 10-13-year-olds. The motion for a resolution is also justified by the fact that parents of thousands of children should have opted out of the SFOs in connection with the reform of primary school. On the basis of the data available, however, it does not appear that the number of registered persons has decreased significantly. However, I must stress that there is uncertainty about the data base. The basis of figures is therefore too uncertain for us to be able to say something certain about the development of the number of enrolled before and after the reform of the primary school. According to figures from the Ministry of Economics and Home Affairs, the number of SFO sites has increased to 2015, i.e. the following year, after which in 2016 and 2017 there has been a small decrease of about 1,000 per year. According to Statistics Denmark, the number of registered persons has been slightly increasing up to and including 2013, but in 1014 it fell by in the order of 12-13,000. Denmark's Statistics, however, indicate that there is uncertainty about the data base and that it is examined in more detail. For the same reason, figures for 2015 and 2016 have not yet been published. I will assess the development of the number of entries when Denmark's Statistics has published new figures for these years, including whether there is a correlation between tariff changes and changes in the number of entries. The rejection of the resolution is also linked to some economic considerations. In reply to the Education Committee on 28 April 2017, Question 96, I have stated that the additional cost of introducing a tariff ceiling in the SFO is 30%. with considerable uncertainty can be estimated at around 1.1 billion. kr. It should also be noted that the block grant compensation to which the municipalities would be entitled, if necessary, would be very unevenly distributed in relation to the actual additional costs incurred by the municipalities, as there is a large variation in the level of the tariff between the municipalities. I also note that the municipalities must comply with a care guarantee which is met in the light of the specific wishes and needs of each local area. In my view and in the view of the government, it is reasonable that local authorities should be able to reconcile their offer of services in this area to a certain extent with the actual demand generated by the local self-payment. I am fully aware of the development of both the tariff level and parental pay in the SFO, and I will, of course, follow developments closely. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the government is in favour of local self-government and that, through participation in the democratic process, citizens themselves contribute to local decisions on service levels and payments for municipal services. The government trusts that the municipalities can manage this autonomy, and also for this reason the government cannot support a proposal that sets a certain tariff ceiling for all municipalities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111359	Thank you, Minister. Then there are a few brief comments. First, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111404	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It may well be that I overheard it, but now I want to ask about it, because this price level is quite interesting to me. Today, because of the increasing SFO prices for parents, there are SFOs in Denmark that are more expensive than a private school with SFO. So there are simply parents in Denmark who can go down to the local SFO, get the price sheet in hand and look at the price and say: it is more expensive than choosing the private school which is 2 km away, with the Minister thinking that it is fair and good?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111455	Thank you. Whether such a relationship can arise depends to a large extent on a municipal priority, and it is also about the ability of each free school to prioritise its resources. For example, there are some free and private schools that choose to prioritise their budgets in a way where costs are low for parents. It may be that they do not spend very much on the rehabilitation of the school, that they do not spend very much on their operating costs at all, so as to keep a low level for the parents. If, at the same time, the municipality keeps a relatively high level, the situation may arise, as the rapporteur says here, and that is not something I should regulate from in here. After all, it is about how good you are at running the individual private school and what the municipalities decide on in relation to tariffs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111547	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111549	But the Minister is also a politician, so the Minister can make a political statement whether the Minister thinks it is good that there are private schools with SFOs that are cheaper than a municipal SFO. I personally think that is wrong. Then I would like to know whether the Minister thinks it makes sense to have a ceiling on parental pay at leisure homes and day-care establishments, but that there is no ceiling on the SFOs. Why does there have to be a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111622	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111623	I think it's really good to have a free choice for the parents between different offers. I think it is impressive and nice when private schools can keep the cost to parents down, because it means that many different family types can choose that offer. I also think that this is a right and good way of prioritising the money. If some municipalities choose to keep a high SFO tariff, it is of course on the basis of an assessment in the individual municipality, but it is clear that as LAs I will always think it is important that the municipality keeps its administrative costs low and uses the resources in a way that benefits the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111705	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111707	In his speech, the Minister mentioned that it might be Enhedslisten's view that the particular problem was a lack of tariff adjustment following the reform of primary school. There may be problems with that, but I agree with the Minister that it is not easy to find proper statistics in this area. It almost reminds us of the way in which standards are calculated in the area of day care in another ministry. However, having said that, the Minister cannot understand that some parents, since the long days of school mean that the children do not get off work until typically at 1 p.m. 14.00, think it is very expensive that they should pay 1.500-1.600 kr. a month for an offer in a school break scheme, where the kids must be from once a little after kl. 2:00 p.m. and then to 2:00 p.m. 16:00 to 4:15? Isn't that unfairly expensive for the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111809	I am of the opinion that the municipalities must demand, to a large extent, a payment that is in line with what the citizens receive. And that is what the municipalities must constantly weight, and that is where I think we should have as much transparency as possible for the citizens, a transparency that is about how much money we get for each municipality. It is both about the quality of the school, it is about the quality of leisure offers, it is about the quality of the day institutions. After all, a new day offer is currently being negotiated, which has some excellent elements that give parents better insight into what money is being spent on and what quality is. That transparency is extremely important for giving citizens power, so to speak. After all, it is they who pay and also add children, whether we are talking about SFOs or day care centres or schools. So my overall view is that the municipalities must constantly assess whether what they are demanding is reasonable in relation to what the citizens are actually getting for their money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111909	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111910	I believe that the Minister shares the view that leisure arrangements have an incredibly important impact on children's opportunities for entering children's communities, that not least children who may have difficulty in forming communities in school in connection with education and life there, so to speak, have a second chance, another chance to create new communities. Does the Minister not agree that it is a major problem if the payment means that there are parents who, for economic reasons, opt out of the school freetime scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111951	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518111952	I certainly hope that is not the case. After all, we are in the process of carrying out a study in the SFO area, in fact, after a collaboration with, among others. The Enhedslisten, and that is because I also regard leisure offers as an important area of freedom for children and children's culture. It's something other than school, and it has to be something other than school. It is qualitatively different. When they were made about 100 years ago, it was to help the children from the backyard. So if we don't help the kids from the backyard anymore, we should know, you might say. It's a concern I have, and it's something I'm watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112037	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112050	Thank you. The proposal from the Enhedslisten is, as has been said, about setting a ceiling of 30%. over the parental pay in the SFO. And the reason for this is that, as mentioned in the motion for a resolution, the price of an SFO space has increased a great deal over a number of years. It is true, as the Minister says, that the price has fallen; as a result of the reform of primary schools and the longer day of school and the shorter SFO days there has been a fall in the price of the SFO site. But it is also true, as the motion for a resolution says, that in the years up to 15 years back, there has been a fairly large increase in the price of having a child in the SFO. That is why we have sympathy with the proposal. For of course, the price means something for the children's families' economy and therefore also for whether or not you choose to use an SFO offer in the individual family. Therefore, we would also like to provide the municipalities with a reasonable financial framework in relation to the many tasks they have to perform, and the SFO task is one of the important tasks that the municipalities have to perform. And that is why we have another objective and a higher target for the growth of the public economy in the years to come than that of the government, but in relation to the very specific proposal here it costs more than 1 billion. kr. A year ago, and we are not going to give this particular priority to all sorts of other good purposes, for which an economic space in the future could also be used. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112245	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112249	In other words, it cannot be disputed that it is a relatively expensive proposal; it is, of course, linked to the gliding that has taken place in the parental pay. But I would like to hear: does the Social Democrats not agree that there is a need to set a ceiling on parental pay? This should not necessarily be the ceiling proposed by Enhedslisten, but is it not a problem that the municipalities can in principle impose the full cost on parents? You can charge the parents every penny, it costs the municipality to run a school break schedule... isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112327	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112328	Well, I can follow that. I believe that the municipalities can do many things and that the municipalities can do many bad things that will be a problem, but basically we are in favour of municipal self-government, and that means giving the municipalities the freedom to do some things that we in here think are bad ideas too. So that's just like the starting point. But then it is true, as has also been said, that there are ceilings on other types of care provision, including those leisure homes that are not many left of anymore. So it is not the case that I am going to reject the fact that, for this type of care scheme, you could also have a ceiling. Perhaps you could, but we are certainly not ready to stand here and burn over a billion. kr. Every year in the future, on exactly this. We would like to see it in a wider context and look at what else could be spent on that money and then make a global priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112430	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112432	There are such differences of opinion as to what we are going to do with these leisure schemes. When I was younger and I was working in the trade union movement with this, there were some illegal schemes that were called supervisory premises, as well as suggesting that there was therefore not much educational purpose here. Does the rapporteur not agree that, thankfully, we have left that time behind and that the school-free arrangements are indeed of great importance in terms of children's development and well-being? Against this background, is it not a serious problem if there are parents who opt out of school freetime schemes for economic reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112515	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112516	Well, there's definitely kids for whom it'll be a problem if their parents opt out of this educational offer because of an overpayment of parents no doubt about it. And if at any time I have indicated anything other than that we have left what the questioner says we have left, then I have not made myself clear enough. Of course, there must be educational content in the SFO offer. And yes, there may well be specific children, for whom it may be a problem for parents to opt out. Fortunately, however, there are some free space arrangements, among others. also an educational free space scheme, such as: is designed to account for exactly this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112559	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112608	Thank you. Nor will it come as a surprise to the Enhedslisten that the Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. I should like to begin by saying that I can understand the wonder expressed by the proposal, that is that there is the difference between leisure homes and school freetime schemes. In terms of legislation, it is the case that leisure homes fall within the scope of the day-off law, where there is the possibility of setting this ceiling, while school freetime schemes fall within the scope of the primary school law and are part of the primary school. That is, of course, the legal reason why there is then no possibility of setting a ceiling for the SFOs. But, of course, the individual municipalities have the opportunity to introduce a ceiling themselves if they want to. And I think they should continue to have that opportunity. We don't have to legislate for it in the Folketing. The second reason why we cannot support it is, of course, the economy. It costs between 1.1 and 1.2 billion. kr., and Enhedslisten then suggests that the money should come, by hiring 1,000 more people in the SKAT, then going to recover some more money. I guess that's a little like dynamic effects, we don't know what's coming in; we don't know if the money's there. And if we are to take a position on motions for resolutions, we will have to have more serious funding. It's a bit of birds on the roof. And that is why we cannot endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518112759	Thank you. Today we are dealing with the first reading of the B 143 on the fixing of a ceiling on parental pay in school freetime schemes. We in the Left are voting against this resolution because we cannot support a proposal that we do not think is financially responsible. So, as other rapporteurs have already said, the calculations show that the motion for a resolution will simply entail an additional cost of some 1.1 billion. kr. It is money that can be said that Danish citizens have to pay, and we in the Left do not think that we are going to ask them to do so. In the Left, of course, we want everyone to have the opportunity to take advantage of school-free arrangements, and for that matter we will also help along the way, given that there are already very good opportunities to actually apply for freeways. At the same time, we believe that it should be borne in mind, as the Minister also mentioned, that there have actually been no tariff increases in this area in recent years. I know that we still lack some more valid data, and that is what we are waiting for from Statistics Denmark. In addition to that, it is important for me to stress that we in the Left are of course fond of municipal autonomy. It is the case that the individual municipalities themselves have the freedom to go in and influence these rates. We also know that it is a municipal election year, and in this way the individual parties around the municipalities have the opportunity to intervene in this area if they believe that there are places where the tariffs are simply too high. All in all, I would like to say that precisely the municipal freedoms are one of the things that we are looking for in the Left to act as a local authority. And that is also one of the reasons why we in the Left are voting against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113022	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a comment from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113026	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the developments that have taken place do not, in fact, conflict with the intention of setting up school free time arrangements. It's not a new story. It is a relatively old story, but at that time it was said that it was so important that there was no extracurricular home, but that leisure arrangements were moved closer to schools, so that, as it were, there was a close interaction between school education and what took place in leisure schemes. Is it not a problem that today we are faced with a situation in which the proximity, the density between school and leisure facilities that were supposedly wanted at that time is now being completely blown up because there are apparently children who are leaving leisure facilities altogether for economic reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113123	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113124	I do not recognise what Enhedslisten's rapporteur actually brings up here, namely that there is no close contact between school and leisure. I come around talking to both educators and teachers in primary school, and I actually think that there is a really good dialogue and increased contact in terms of working together across school life and everyday life in the school leisure scheme. So I simply do not recognise the premise that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113204	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to press ahead if he wishes to speak in the second place. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113209	Then I might have been misunderstood a little, because I kind of agree with that. My point is that if we think that the good interaction today between schools and leisure schemes is positive for the children, then it is a problem when you suddenly pull children out of the good interaction. That kind of reinforces the problem. But otherwise I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the Left's view that not only this proposal for a ceiling, but the setting of a ceiling on parental payments at all, is a problem? Should the municipalities be able to charge 100 per cent. of the cost, if they so wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113251	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113252	Now I do not know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur was listening when I gave my rapporteur's speech, but one of the things I actually chose to stress is that the freedom of the municipalities themselves to be able to act also means a great deal to us in the Left, in other words local self-government. It can be, for example, in relation to how to do it. will limit the increase in parental pay. Actually, we cherish that. And I have to say that I really think that more and more municipalities have noticed that it is important perhaps to try to limit the increase in parental pay. Because we know that it is important, even for the everyday life of children's families, that you can have your children cared for, whether it is in day care, kindergarten or for that matter in the SFO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113340	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113350	Thank you. The idea of motion for a resolution B 143 is that a ceiling should be set on parental pay in school-free schemes which correspond to the ceiling on parental pay for leisure homes. The first thing I would like to say is that if the idea of municipal self-government is to make sense, we must be careful not to undermine in practice the self-government that we so highly praise, and I think this proposal provides for this, so that in itself gives rise to some concern. But if, for the sake of argument, we ignore this issue of municipal self-government, how big is the problem? There I think you have to get an American word of wisdom saying that if it isn't broken, you shouldn't fix it. I also believe that these words of wisdom are valid in Denmark. As the Minister has stated in his speech, the level of tariffs in the SFO is not something that has been increasing in recent years, and in the context of the reform of primary schools it has actually decreased, so the national average reflects the decline in opening hours due to the fact that the school day has continued. Firstly, since the proposal does not benefit local self-government and, secondly, does not meet the criterion that it solves a problem, the Liberal Alliance cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113542	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113547	I do not disagree so much that if things are not broken, one should consider whether it is wise to repair them. The Minister mentioned in his speech that the statistics in this area are unclear. I have admitted that it could be clearer. If it is now the case that I and Enhedslisten are right about what we are now saying in connection with this motion for a resolution, that there are thousands of children who are leaving school-free because parents no longer think it is reasonable to pay these DKK 1 500. For a very short day in the school break, isn't there something broken, and isn't that something we need to repair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113631	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113633	If that turns out to be the case, as outlined, then that is something we must look at. But now we've got a Disruption Council, and it's so modern to think out of the box, and one of the ways you could think out of the box was that you might be able to work with Enhedslisten to reduce taxes, because then families would get a higher disposable income, and then it wouldn't feel so heavy to have to pay the money that it costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113700	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113703	After all, there is a close link between tax and user charges, so we could get even more user charges. When the rapporteur says that it would be a problem in relation to local self-government to impose a ceiling on the rates here, does the rapporteur basically also believe that it is an unreasonable interference in municipal self-government that we have a ceiling on the rates in our day nurseries, kindergartens and municipal day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113732	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113734	When I was elected to the Folketing on 18 June 2015, the world already existed, and there are some things and matters that have been adopted and that may not just be my cup of tea, but one also has to as a practical politician accept that the world exists in some kind of constitution at the time one is elected. So I have chosen to accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518113802	Thank you for that, President. In order to pick up where the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur ended or at some of his speech I would say that there must at least be something broken in the City of Hørsholm. For in Hørsholm Municipality there are 37 per cent. fewer children in the SFO, as a result of setting the rates. So there is at least something that does not work in some municipalities. I just sat there and found that out while we were having the debate. We have some increases which are not insignificant: Solrød has increased their tariff by 12%, Hvidovre with 14 per cent, Frederiksberg with 8%. etc. Of course, it matters whether you send your child to the SFO or not. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative, we support the Enhedslisten proposal. We fully agree that there should be the same tariff ceiling in the SFO as there are in the other institutions for children. Some of what we may not have been talking about, but which is also super central in this discussion, is what the SFO is just giving the kids. What kind of offer is this room it creates for children who are something other than school? One of the reasons why, in the alternative, we are also critical of the long school days is that when you are a child starting school or in a free school or a private school for that matter, it is often the case that it takes some time to find out what your role in space is, what your role in class is, what position you have, what structures you have. And even if things move, of course they do it when they're kids, then it also gets stuck at some point. Most school classes will have some kind of firmness • things settle down in relation to which children are skilled in Danish, who are popular, because they have the right clothes on, and who is skilled at sports, and who is good at playing football out in the schoolyard. All the roles played by children in their class in their class education can be really appropriate, positive for some children, and then there are some other children who may feel a little squeezed in school and who find it difficult to find their place in the school class. For those children, getting into another room in the afternoon, where you have a completely different way of working, where it is a completely different framework and premise that is set up, to be the good one or the good one, to create some sense of success, some success stories for those children who may have difficulty in class. The SFO can do that. That is why the educational tool, the educational tools and the educational space that the SFO is are insanely important for many children. Because that might actually be where you pick up your success stories as a kid if you're not the best at school. That is why the SFO is extremely important, and that is why it is a disaster if parents are increasingly starting to report out children, because it is extremely important for children's social development and for children's perception of who they really are and who they are in relation to others with whom they are associating. For this reason alone it is extremely important that we keep the SFO as an offer that is there and that is affordable for the parents. So we think it is very positive and very, very sympathetic of Enhedslisten to make this proposal. I understand that there is a financial cost to it. We can find some money for that. I really think Enhedslisten's proposal is very, very fine, because there is no doubt that there is some money hidden in some tax somewhere that could finance it here. You could also find the money elsewhere. I think it is a matter of will to find the money it would cost. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518114150	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518114156	Thank you for that, President. I agree that it would be good to have a ceiling on parental pay in school-free schemes, as well as in leisure homes. Yet the Radical Left is going to vote against this proposal. That's because it's such a classic Device List proposal. It is very sympathetic, but the funding is somewhat questionable. It is not, of course, because everything in here always has to go into figures, but it is a little too loose to say that you want to finance it by hiring some more employees in the SKAT. After all, we are in the process of hiring more people in SKAT, and I should certainly not rule out that it would be worthwhile to hire even more, but that only counts when you make a serious plan and have the concrete economic calculations on it. This is hocuspocus, and it's not gonna work. So I do not think it really counts in this way when a motion for a resolution is tabled which is not funded. On the contrary, people are actually at risk of feeling a little cheated about the fact that it doesn't happen. In the Radical Left, we have made a plan for more educators. We thus prioritise this differently than Enhedslisten does here. We think that the most important thing is to hire 4,500 more educators in our day offer. It costs 1.8 billion a year. If you want to do so, then you must also be willing to give priority to what you cannot spend money on. But perhaps we can work with Enhedslisten to focus on the good children's life and on play and on outdoor life. I am one of those who has been lucky enough to go to such a fantastic leisure home in Aabenraa, where we had rabbits and bicycle workshop and cable car and a roller coaster that you could turn into a water slide in summer. It was just so awesome. And unfortunately, many children are being cheated on today, so I would love to join with Enhedslisten and others in focusing on the game and on the good child life and promoting everything that we want children to have so much more of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518114416	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518114422	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for putting an important proposal on the agenda. I think it is important to have a strong SFO, and I actually think that the SFO has been a little forgotten about the whole issue of a new primary school reform. I think we are forgetting to talk about it, I think we are forgetting to talk about how we can strengthen it, and I also think we are forgetting to talk about the obvious problems that exist in the SFO world right now. That is why it is a welcome opportunity to do so today. If we're going to start with some of the stuff that's pushing the SFOs right now, the school reform has certainly pushed the SFOs. I could already see this when I was sitting out as a council member: the parents began to report the children, and many municipalities began to raise their parents' fees because they could not make it happen in the municipalities. It is very logical that when you make time in the SFO shorter and at the same time raise the price, yes, then the parents sit at home and think: Well, do we really have to spend money on it? It could be a lot of money... $1,000, $1,500. a month and then they make the decision to turn their child out to save that money. In addition to the fact that the reform of primary schools has also contributed to the erosion of standards in the SFOs, it seems, and in addition to making the SFOs more expensive, it has happened that this distortion has meant that it is now cheaper in many places to send your child to private school with a corresponding SFO than to send it to a municipal SFO. This means that parents can sit at home and make an economic calculation showing that with a municipal SFO on the one hand, and a private SFO and a private school on the other hand, they simply get one cheaper than the other. I think that is wrong and, in fact, I think that, if we are to discuss funding, we could consider whether we should make that model more equal in some way, for example. to look at whether the model we finance for private schools after today is the right one. At any rate, I think it is wrong, because it provides an incentive for parents to withdraw their children from primary school and the municipal SFO to join the private school and the private SFO. In fact, I think it is wrong for us to state that development. A lot of smart things have been said about why there is a need for SFOs and why there is a need for strong leisure education. I think there are many good things in the reform of the primary school, but one of the things you just can't do with children is that you can't initiate all play, you can't manage all play, and all play can't be mixed up with learning. One of the things the SFO can do is to give free play; it is to use the professional skills of educators to give children strong social communities and one of the arguments for example. To take the educators into the primary school, which was part of the reform, is that the teachers get to know the children in a completely different way over in the SFO, and they can then bring that into the school. But it also requires that the kids go to the SFO and that there is time in the SFO, and there I think this proposal can be a right step on the way. I am in favour of a ceiling on SFO payments, so is SF, and I have been doing so ever since I was on the city council. But it's expensive to do this, and we've actually had a real discussion in the SF about: if we needed 1.2 billion. kr. on the SFOs right now, what we would like if we had 1.2 billion. kr. In fact, for the weakest groups in society, free space grants are provided in advance and cheaper SFOs are provided, so in many ways you can say that if you need 1.2 billion. kr., that's what we're spending them on, lowering parental pay. This will mean that some parents get more money between their hands, and it is not even the weakest parents who do. Was that money better spent on pedagogy in the SFO? I think that is just a real consideration, although I think it is a good proposal at a time when the SFOs are a little starved. I just have to say a little bit about the funding, because I have once been teased by the good man. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. I put forward a proposal to increase the turnout in the municipal elections, which cost 5 million. kr., and said that this had to be found in the committee procedure, and then Mr. Finn Sørensen me the yellow card. Now I note that the Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal of 1.2 billion. kr., which is said to be found by a recovery of the SKAT. I have then tried to examine what kind of recovery it is. In Enhedslisten's Finance Bill last year, where you spend a lot of billions of dollars, and where exactly the recovery of SKAT is included, there is nothing about the ceiling on the SFO, so you have not budgeted with it here in Enhedslisten's own proposal. And if you look at the Enhedslisten's proposal for a recovery of SKAT, it costs 1 billion. kr. to start with to recruit more employees. So the first year, it's costing 1 billion. kr., that is, the cost of this proposal and the recovery of the SKAT will be 2.2 billion. kr. the first year, and then only over the years maybe we can see some effects of investing in SKAT. By the way, it is a proposal that SF and Enhedslisten will make together tomorrow. So the funding for this proposal simply does not hold out, and we can then say that we are equal to the yellow cards among the parties, and then I think we should discuss further how we can put this in place one day, because I think it is actually a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518114954	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115000	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for presenting the motion for a resolution. It is always important that we have the opportunity to discuss the conditions for children and families. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution here. The motion for a resolution will include: the cost of the country's municipalities to the tune of 1.1 billion. kr., as was stated in the reply to the Education Committee on 28 April. At the same time, we in the Conservative People's Party believe that it should be up to the individual municipal council to determine the SFO tariff according to local conditions and needs. We should not change that, here we want to respect municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115051	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115058	It is far too expensive to have your child in a school break. Parental payments are on average just about DKK 1,500. I have no doubt that there are many parents who opt out of leisure schemes for this reason. It is quite true, as has been said, that free space arrangements exist which mean that for some it has a minor effect. Therefore, there is also something that suggests, based on the surveys that have been made, that this particularly affects the parent group that is just above the free space limit. Hopefully we'll learn more about that. I understood the Minister so that work is being done to find out what the figures really are in this area. In any case, the opt-out of school freetime schemes that we have seen has come first and foremost after the reform of primary school. For many parents it is necessary to have a care scheme for their child when the child is off school, so many have gone very far to make it work. And so I think this is the coincidence between the very short opening hours in the SFOs and the very high price that makes us, on the basis of studies such as this. The BUPL and the Bureau 2000 consultancy agency will estimate that the number of children in school freetime schemes would, in all probability, be at least 20,000 higher today than if the extension of the long school days had not been achieved by the reform of the primary school. There are, therefore, a great many children who are missing out on the community in a leisure scheme, and I think we have to say that for some it has very serious negative consequences. The consequences are obviously different from child to child. There's no need to discuss this out of the question. Of course, the working hours of the parents and the availability of nearby grandparents play a major role. And it plays a major role whether you go home alone in the afternoon, or whether you go to a leisure activity where you go with others. There is no need to simplify the issues, but it does not stand to explain away that for many children it is actually a major problem that they are cut off from the association and the community with schoolmates in the afternoon, and a great many are, by all accounts, also left to themselves. This is simply not fair to children at the age of 6-9. I also think it is worth noting that this is primarily about the children, but that it is also about the parents. It therefore gives parents considerable insecurity if it is the case that they have to give up having a care system for their boy or girl, who may even be barely 6 years old. This gives rise to some enormous problems with the concern about how the school way is to proceed. And that's the practical-physical thing. Another thing is: What does it really matter to my child if you lose companionship and friendships because you are unable to associate with the other children in the school break? So we have to reverse the trend so that the proportion of children in school break-up schemes does not continue to fall, but so that parents start choosing them again. We have proposed a ceiling and I welcome the comments made by the Alternative and the SF. Thank you for your positive comments. I have listened to what has been said in the positive corner that there are also clear reports from the Social Democrats and the Radicals that we have a problem that we need to look at together. Hopefully we will have the opportunity to do so in another position in a year and a half. Then I would say to the financing that I agree with the fact that I have also mentioned it in the questions I have put to you that it is really expensive. It is also worth considering: are we spending the money wisely enough? What has been very crucial to me and the Enhedslisten is that there seems to have been a situation in which a great many leave school freetime schemes. I think it is going to be very critical, and that is why the proposal can be very important to give priority to it. Finally, to finance only: we have built our proposal for funding on the answers we have received from the Ministry of Finance on what will benefit from hiring more employees in the SKAT. On average, there is something that can be done to earn your salary five times if you are employed as a supervisory officer in the SKAT. It will probably be difficult in this House to find some who do not have the view that the conditions in the SKAT may be somewhat opaque, but that is to say, we have built our proposal on the figures we have obtained from the Ministry of Finance. We would very much like to engage in dialogue on them, including on whether or not there were other options for funding, because we think the proposal is really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115634	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, for a brief comment. I'll tell you when this point is done, it's gonna be called for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115644	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten. I do not think I was able to say that in my rapporteur's speech in order to raise the debate here today at all, because I think it is important that we take this debate. What I would like to ask a little bit about, and as some of the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, is: if you choose to set this ceiling, could the Enhedslisten's rapporteur answer which families would benefit from this purely financially? I would like the rapporteur also to have in mind that there are already very good and good opportunities for economic freedom. In other words, if you are a family that does not earn a lot of money, there are good opportunities today for financial freedom. So which families are really going to benefit from the introduction of this ceiling as proposed by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115742	So, if you have a household income of less than DKK 170,000, you have no pleasure in it, because then you have full free space, but then you are also in an economic situation where, to put it mildly, there is not much to do good with. So the free space limit is from DKK 170,000. up to 522,000 kroner, graduated according to how much you make. So, in that respect, depending on where you lie on the ladder, you will have economic pleasure. And if you're earning more than 528,200 kroner. a year in household income, one will get the full pleasure and economic benefit of the proposal here. So that's how it's screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115828	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115829	That is actually what I wanted to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say, because if I am going to tease a little here, I actually see that Enhedslisten, with this proposal, will actually help the families who earn the most. And after what I know at least because I have worked with this area for many years, you are already helping those families who have a low income, really, very well via the economic freeways. Will the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not confirm that this proposal will help the families who earn the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115906	It will probably be too speculative, but I can confirm that Enhedslisten generally believes that our welfare should be tax-financed and that it is actually a really bad idea with user charges. So if we had power, as we have watched, it would cost nothing to have your child in a school-free arrangement, and then it was financed over the tax in a way so that it did not turn the heavy end down. If we had put forward that proposal, I would probably not have had to settle for the rather bumpy remarks that have been made about funding here. So yes, I can confirm that it causes some imbalances, just because we have user charges in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518115947	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Then Parliament's meeting is suspended until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130005	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130027	The proposal now before us is to make future numbers gender-neutral. Let me begin by stating that social security numbers contain information on gender in the sense that equal numbers are given to those born as women, and unequal numbers are given to those born as men. This has been the case since 1968, when the social security number system was introduced. With effect from 1 September 2014, it was possible for persons who experience belonging to the other sex to be assigned, on application, a social security number in accordance with the sex experienced. On the basis of the proposal to make personal numbers gender-neutral, the proposers point out that in practice gender identity is not absolutely linked to the biological binary sex and that some people have a more fluid gender identity and thus do not identify categorically as a man or as a woman. The proposers also point out that the proposal aims to ensure that persons who do not wish to share information about their gender in any formal interaction with the government, the bank, etc. can be free from it. It is, of course, possible to make gender-neutral personal numbers, but this will have major administrative and economic consequences both for the public and for the private sector. Fundamental changes would have to be made to the CPR system itself, and programmes relating to the allocation of social security numbers and other programmes in the system, which derive gender from the social security number, will have to be amended. The personal identification number is widely used in the public and private sectors. Public and private systems which derive the gender directly from the social security number will also have to be changed if gender-neutral personal numbers are introduced. This is true, for example. In the health sector and in the field of register research. It is not possible to quantify more precisely the total cost of this, but it is the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior that they will be significant. The fact that the person number is information-bearing has value in relation to the immediate identification and identification in society. This is true, for example. in the health sector, and this applies to police work. I understand the proposal that the allocation of gender-neutral personal numbers should only be made to persons who are born or entered after the turn of the year 2017/18. Since 1968, nearly 10 million people have been registered in the CPR, all with a gender-specific social security number. Although future numbers are made gender neutral, for many years to come the majority of the population will continue to have a gender-specific social security number. I would say that my opposition to the proposal is solely due to the considerable financial and administrative burdens associated with the proposal. It is not the government's policy to impose new and unnecessary neither economic nor administrative burdens, not least in relation to the private sector. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130414	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130418	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I am glad that the Minister has finally mentioned that the only reason for not being able to support the proposal is the administrative and financial costs mentioned by the Minister, because I understand that the Minister supports the intention of the proposal in this way. Now the Minister is saying that this is a considerable cost and that it cannot be brought closer, but one has to be able to do so in one way or another. It may be that we should send a question to the Minister. But I would like to ask you about the cost of this: what exactly is so expensive? Because it is the case that the sex is recorded behind the cpr number; it is in the data register behind the number itself. So what's so costy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130507	I should like to begin by saying that I think, as I believe in my speech, that it is sympathetic enough to present the proposal. I have a great deal of respect for that. I should also like to say that when we look both at changing the CPR system and look at how there can be clear and easy identification in different parts of the public and private sectors, it is our assessment that there is too much cost involved in changing the systems in question. However, I would like to say to what the questioner says about asking some written questions where we can try to unfold it a little, that of course I am making myself available for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130558	There are no more questions. Then I thank the Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130608	Thank you. It should have been the Social Democratic Gender Rapporteur who should have been rapporteur on this motion for a resolution, but there is currently a consultation in the Committee on Gender Equality with the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Culture, to which our gender rapporteur would very much like to be a part. That is why it has just come to my attention that I have become rapporteur. For social democracy, it is important to take account of and organise society after everyone can be and express the gender they experience to have. Therefore, we must take into account and help if people experience a discrepancy between their gender identity and their biological sex. This is why the Social Democratic Party helped to introduce the possibility of legal gender change in 2014 and that is also why the Social Democratic Party has helped put pressure on the government to remove transgender from the list of mental illnesses. As you know, this has also been achieved here per year. January 1st this year. However, we are not sure that this resolution will solve a really existing problem. It seems more like it's a little theoretical and abstract problem that is addressed here, especially in view of the fact that we have already introduced the possibility of legal gender change if you experience being equipped with a social security number that does not match your gender identity. In the social democracy we want an equal society in which one is not restricted by one's sex, but we do not want a gender-neutral society. Among other things: That is why we do not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130757	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130801	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for jumping on behalf of the Social Democrats' equal opportunities rapporteur. We do not want a gender-neutral society either. I do not think that is in this resolution, that is to say that we want a gender-neutral society. I don't think anyone in this Parliament does. But when the rapporteur mentions that he thinks it is only a theoretical problem, I have to challenge it. For I would call it both a fundamental problem, but also a very real one. And it's not about getting a legal change of gender and thereby getting a new social security number, because of course you can, and that's really good. It's about some people who don't want to define themselves as either man or woman, and that's what this is all about, so there are some people who define themselves as a third sex. After all, there are countries that have recorded that you can have a third sex. One can simply cross that one is neither man nor woman, but a third sex. And that's kind of what we want to say with this, so you don't have to be defined and looked at as and define yourself as either man or woman. Can the rapporteur understand that logic, and is that something that the Social Democrats support?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518130907	I have to say that I am replying a little with reservations, since this is not something I have been so insanely concerned with in the past. I can understand the logic of this and, of course, I think that such concerns, such problems, should also be taken seriously. But I don't immediately think this is the solution to it. Well, I understand the questioner that there are some who want a gender-neutral social security number, and I think that may well be right, but I also think that there are some who want a social security number that is not gender-neutral. So this is what we are going to say in the future, and it will then take a long time, as the Minister also mentioned, before it has fully come into force that everyone should have a gender-neutral social security number. And I could imagine that just as there are some people who would like to have a gender-neutral social security number, there may also be some who might somehow feel it wrong to have a gender-neutral social security number. There may be some other solutions, but I have not dealt with it enough so as to point them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131021	No, and I have great respect for that. But I'm just thinking that for all of us who define us as either man or woman and who either have an equal or an odd social security number, is it any problem if we don't necessarily have an equal or an odd number? Well, that certainly wouldn't be a problem for me; I wouldn't really care what was in those digits of my social security number. So does the consideration that some people have this wish not outweigh the consideration that, as the rapporteur says, there are some who want us to be able to look out of the person's number, which sex you were born with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131102	I would say that I have never even considered whether that would be a problem for me. But a lot of politics is, of course, about balance of consideration, and I am just saying calmly that it may well be that there are some who think that and that is also a legitimate point of view, I think it is nice and practical in relation to their identity as a man or a woman that it is also shown in the person number. That is how I would think that some might feel. And then it is legitimate enough to take that into account. So among other things... That's why this is not the right solution for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131142	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131145	Thank you. I would also like to ask a few questions about what the rapporteur has just said, namely that this is not a real problem, but that it is simply an abstract problem. This motion for a resolution has been tabled because there are several people who do not think they can say that they are either one or the other sex. And in relation to the target group to which the rapporteur's party has helped, as the rapporteur also refers, by among other things. For example, to remove transgenderness from the list of mental diseases, does it not make the impression that the target group itself expresses that this cpr number, i.e. that they end on a certain number, is a problem? And does it not make the impression that the fact that you can be confronted in public with what kind of gender you have, how you look, etc., is perceived as a major problem among a lot of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131241	Well, I'd say that makes an impression. I listen very much to what is being said. But I will also listen to those who I could imagine were even more who would find it strange with gender-neutral numbers and who think the other is practical. The previous question asks whether, if you do not have a fluent gender identity, you should not be able to live with a gender-neutral social security number. Yeah, you could ask that. This indicates that the number of the person may not mean as much, but that question could also be asked the other way. So if the number of the person is not so insanely important and something very central to a gender identity that is very clear, why should it be something very, very central and very important in relation to a gender identity that is not so clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131350	I am very pleased to hear that the rapporteur says that this is something he listens to when it is that some people draw attention to these issues. But when it is said that you listen very much to it, I am surprised that you then do nothing about it in practice. This isn't something that affects a lot of others, i.e. what your CPR number looks like, but it really, really means a lot to some people. Why don't we act on that? Why do we not do something when the rapporteur himself says that he listens very much to it? Shouldn't we do something about it in action, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131425-2	Yes, but so, we simply disagree with what is in the proposal here. Now it has been said by the rapporteur for the proposers that no one is in favour of a gender-neutral society, and that may well be so, but the proposal says that we want to do away with an outdated binary view of gender. And there is just what I am saying is that the attitude of the Social Democrats is that we should have an equal society where gender does not impose any restrictions on anyone, but we in the Social Democrats are not in favour of a gender-neutral society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131457	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131503	Thank you. This alternative proposal requires the government to make social security numbers gender-neutral. The alternative wants a fight with an outdated binary view of gender in the issue of identification numbers to the Danes. When I read this motion for a resolution, I soon did not know whether to laugh or cry. Twenty-five lines is what this resolution says. It's just so thin. There is nothing in the motion for a resolution about how many of them are involved here, but it may be that the alternative can be dealt with in their speech. What is the reason why you want to change an entire system that works fantastic today? I have never personally received a request that there should be a challenge in this area: that the registration of one's sex should be a problem never ever. Honestly, I also believe that we on the part of the Danish Parliament have greater challenges to solve. I think this proposal is completely unthought out, including the consequences it will have, not least for our health system, and also in relation to the economic consequences that the Minister has mentioned. How, then, can you call a mammography screening in the health system or do so if you have to do a cervical or prostate cancer study? How is this gonna happen if you don't have this well-functioning CPR system that we have? In the Danish People's Party, we believe that you can shoot a white stick after this motion for a resolution. We cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131641	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131645	Thank you. This may have been expected from the Danish People's Party. Firstly, behind the CPR number is the data that are also needed in the health system, so it is not because you would not be able to call girls into, for example. hpv vaccination, as you do today, or the boys to something else. You can still do that if you make the last four digits consecutively, regardless of whether it's for a boy or a girl. So this is a technical challenge that is not really very difficult. It can be solved easily. But when the rapporteur so categorically rejects the motion for a resolution and asks back: what on earth is the problem and how many it is about, it is a very good example that the rapporteur has not understood at all what the basic purpose of this resolution is. I actually think we're gonna write it. That is to challenge the gender constraint that we, as a system and as a society and as a state, impose on our citizens. Then it doesn't matter if it's 5 or if it's 500 Danes who have problems with it. But when we demand that we define ourselves as either a boy or a girl, a man or a woman, we also show that, as a society, we only have the two different gender views. And it may be that DF backs it up, and that's fair enough, because then that's the story. But we're just trying to take on the other countries that have recognised that it's okay for someone who doesn't want to define himself as either man or woman to choose a third neuter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131811	Yeah, well, we totally disagree with this. In DF, we do not want to interfere in how the individual experiences his or her gender identity. You have to do that yourself. But we are vertically opposed to changing our entire system, which we have today completely vertically opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131829	Is there a follow-up question? No. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131845	Thank you. Now I have only been sitting in here for a month, but the fact that the number of lines should determine what is the quality and so on. In a bill, I still have enough to say in any case is proportional. So maybe I don't think that's the best argument. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that gender is also included in the personal data register as a separate data element in addition to the personal data number.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131921	I think it is a little funny that the rapporteur is asking questions to which the rapporteur is well aware of the answer. I mean, why is that? There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518131933	The reason why I am asking is that the data extraction can then be made in relation to the personal data register, precisely in the circumstances which the rapporteur has just raised concerns about: calls for various health measures, etc., which are important things. There should be no doubt about that at all. But there you can just use the information that appears there. Why is it so necessary to have such a rigorous, old-fashioned division of CPR numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132009	If I understand the rapporteur correctly, then you can have gender registered in the register of persons, but you just cannot have it in public. What's the difference? We have the genders we have, man or woman, and then I recognise that there are some who may not quite be able to find out which group they belong to, but I simply do not think that we should reorganise our entire CPR system on that basis. I have said in my speech what consequences this will have in relation to various things. The alternative has not financed this proposal at all either. So we are simply being charged with increased costs, because somehow you want this to be done gender-neutrally. We do not want the Danish People's Party to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132101	The next question is Mr. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132105	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the lighting. I would like to follow up on what the rapporteur of the Radicals said and on the rapporteur's own comments. This is about a dramatic difference in whether it is an internal register that the health authorities can use and a public open register that a citizen is exposed to the rest of the population, and we question it because it may be that you do not want to go in some sex normative direction. I think it sounds a little like the rapporteur talking it down by saying that now there is only man and woman, and then there are some who cannot find out. After all, it is not about finding out what it is about; it is about perhaps being very aware that you do not fit into one of the two categories. Will the rapporteur recognise that this can also be the result for those here citizens who choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132201	As I have said before, we from the Danish People's Party do not interfere in what sex you feel you have and what you feel like. People must feel exactly what they want, we do not interfere with that, but I have said from the platform that we have a vertical disagreement with the alternative resolution. But when you can look these things up in the personal records, how can it be a problem that you can look up your gender?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132230	Is there a follow-up? Then press! Thank you. The questioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132235	Thank you, and I'm sorry I didn't get myself in the right time. As far as I am concerned, it seems that the rapporteur has not understood the premise of the motion for a resolution. The question, of course, is whether to walk around with your health card and show those you are now in contact with whether or not you have normatively been stuffed in a box. If it were just continuous numbers, you would not have to take a stand against any person. I can compare it a little with being a minority, an ethnic minority in this country, which can always be confronted with being a brown and thus be placed outside some community. The rapporteur does not have that problem, and here we will see to it that there is a group of our people who do not need to be constantly confronted with normative designs that are really just old-fashioned and are being shoved over our heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132335	I really think I have been quite clear in my speech, and I also agree with what the Socialist rapporteur said, namely that we do not want a gender-neutral society. This is developing, as we have to say, with regard to the motions for resolutions before the House. This is not something we on the side of the Danish People's Party want. People can feel some things, and we recognise that, but that we need to change our entire CPR system in relation to it and with the costs and consequences it will also entail, we in the Danish People's Party do not want to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132412	Then came mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, still on the wagon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132416	Thank you. I just have the question: does the rapporteur really believe that a gender-neutral society is emerging because we are removing the gender marking from the CPR numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132428	It says in the motion for a resolution that we would like to see an end to the old-fashioned way in which we feel in Denmark today. And once you do one, the other may develop too. I do not want us to feel like Sweden, where people are called and everything else; we do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132452	Now the proposal is not about whether we should call each other and all sorts of things. The idea is to remove the gender marking from the CPR numbers, no more and no less. And my question to the rapporteur has not really been answered or I have been answered. The rapporteur is obviously afraid that, because we remove the gender mark, there will be a gender-neutral society. I believe that there is no connection between what is happening among people in relation to their gender and what it says on a social security number. I think that is the right way to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132527	Dear sir. Finn Sørensen, I'm not afraid of anything. I just see that there is a development going on, also in relation to this motion for a resolution. And, as I say, I do not want us to follow Sweden's example in this area in relation to the developments that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132548	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132555	Thank you for that, President. I am not sure that I can promise as much drama as the last rapporteur. I have to say that, in principle, I and my party find the motion for a resolution sympathetic. We think it is important that public institutions, including public systems, should be described in this way, based on the wishes of the citizen and respond to the citizen in as flexible a way as possible. My party is liberal. The Left is a liberal party and fights for the Danes to have the right to live their lives as they wish, provided that their freedom stops at the neighbor's nose tip. Today, our CPR number indicates a gender. I don't think it's a surprise to anyone that if you have an equal number, you're traditionally a woman when you're born, and odd numbers are given to those born as men. The CPR number is not such an organism that renews itself. I'm sure there's some software that's been updated, but we're all back in 1968 when the youth rebellion was running at full speed and Mr. Finn Sørensen was still a glowing communist, I suppose. It's gonna be nodded. He's still gone, yes. When I mention it, it is mostly because if we could change the CPR register today without having any serious financial, administrative and other consequences, then I am not sure that I was not ready to say on behalf of the Left that we would like to take part in it. But when it is that we become a little bit skeptical, that is partly due to. The Minister's statement from earlier, in which the Minister explained how, from an economic point of view, it could lead to a number of transaction costs, economic costs and difficulties for a great many citizens in society. As a starting point, I am not a technical expert, apart from household needs, and I must therefore take the Minister's and the Ministry's words for good goods, which we usually do in the Folketing and agree on. This does not mean that I and the Left do not understand that there are people who think this is a problem. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that on a number of other fronts, for example. in relation to having removed transsexuality from the list of mental disorders, the try to accommodate it as best we can now. And without wishing to offend anyone, I would also say that there are large areas and that there are small areas. For the individual human being even small areas can mean a great deal. The Left would like to take a look at this when it can be done in an affordable way and in a way that does not entail high transaction costs. I imagine that at some point we will have to leave 1968 and have a modern CPR system which may contain some of the technical, scientific and other updates that you see on ID cards elsewhere in the world. In that process, we could enter into a dialogue and respond to some of the issues that might be desirable from different stakeholders, among others. to ensure a gender-neutral CPR number, if necessary. At the same time, however, I think it should be said that it is a small limited group of people who think this is very important. I recognize that. As a starting point, I and the Left would like to respond to that. On the other hand, there is a large proportion of the population who actually think that the CPR number works as it should and does not think much about it. Therefore, our position will be that we cannot support the proposal now. But it is a hand-out in relation to when we reach a time when the cpr system needs to be revised and updated, perhaps fundamentally. There I would recommend that the authors of the motion be lax in any re-submission. In those words, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518132948	There is no wish for short remarks, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133008	The Enhedslisten thinks this is a good proposal. After all, it is a very simple proposal that we remove the gender marking from the CPR numbers, and there is no more in it. Yes, it is that simple, and so there are some who can get a very big ideological debate out of it. It is, of course, there, and there are some ideological differences, so thank you for the alternative to put forward the proposal so that we can have it again. After all, the Enhedslisten has taken the initiative in the past, and we think it is a good proposal. As the comments on the proposal state, gender identity is not necessarily linked to the biological sex with which we are now born. You can be born in a man's body, but you feel like something else. It's not necessarily like the opposite sex... that some people do too... but like something else, just like you can be born in a woman's body, but feel like something else. And there is absolutely no reason why I have not heard it so far in the debate that the state should force citizens into certain boxes, as some people feel quite wrong, and which for some feel extremely stressful. Of course, it is a question of transsexuals, but also of many others, and by adopting this proposal, people do not have to share information on their biological genders with, for example. the bank or other institutions where you have to provide your social security number. It is in a very, very many contexts that you have to enlighten it. So, for us, the proposal is about something quite fundamental, which should be obvious to all parties in the Folketing, namely the freedom of individuals, the freedom to define their own gender identity, instead of having it imposed by a CPR register, and it really surprises me that civil parties and other parties who pay tribute to personal freedom and who call themselves liberals and all sorts of things, do not just say: Yes, of course we do. Because this doesn't bother anyone else. So why is it so important? That is the question that needs to be answered. Why is this so important for those parties that do not support this resolution, except the rapporteur from the Left, who was very accommodating? And perhaps the work of the committee can already clarify some of that: what will it actually cost? What's with all the administrative trouble that the minister says there is? That is not because I think it should be an obstacle to adopting it, but then we can tackle those problems, and I think that we should take Mr Giscard d'Estaing's point of view so far. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's speech as an outstretched hand for this proposal. But apart from that, the other parties who reject the proposal must answer the very simple question: why is it so damn important that the CPR number shows a gender identity? I have not heard an answer to that so far, and I do not think it exists either. So Enhedslisten will just support the proposal in the wording it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133329	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We shall proceed to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133338	Thank you. As it is probably clear to many, I have fought a lot for the rights of transgender and intersex people, and I myself have moved a lot in understanding the traditional binary gender perception. I have had several meetings with the environment and gained a much greater insight into the aspects that matter to this minority group. I therefore fully understand that it means a lot to these people, and I am very pleased that the Danish Health Authority has indicated that the concept of binary gender perception is being professionally softened, which can give hope for the development of a more modern definition. But I don't think that's gonna happen tomorrow. We'll have to admit that. It is not because I want a gender-neutral society, which we have heard several times here today, on the contrary, I want a society in which many genders are accepted, in other words more than the two sexes. But the problem with this proposal, as we have heard the Minister say and explain, is that it is not so easy to change the CPR system. Making social security numbers gender-neutral will have major administrative and economic consequences for both the public and private sectors. This will require changes in registers, systems and programmes. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. Nowadays, there is the possibility of legal gender change, which will, of course, give the desired number change for some. The problem remains for a group of intersex people. As I said, I fully understand the problem, but I just have to admit that this is unfortunately not something we can resolve here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133526	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Kristian Hegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133534	Thank you. The Danish CPR number system is completely obsolete and, as the rapporteur of the Left also said just now, there is good reason to modernise it. As everyone knows, CPR numbers are being distributed today in the way that gentlemen get an odd number at the end and that women get an equal number. In this way, we also set standards and standards to ensure that people in society are either male or female, and so strict are just not identities at all. Humans are not either, and we must give space and space for that, and a CPR number must not stand in the way of that. CPR numbers are used everywhere in the public sector, e.g. in hospitals, NemID, etc., and cpr numbers are used on identification cards such as passports, health cards and driving licences. So you are constantly confronted with your CPR number and thus constantly faced with being locked in some box like a person who is either one or the other and in whom some do not necessarily see themselves. There is no reason to maintain a system in which people may feel intimidated by being posted on a particular sex, a particular identity, and therefore more and more countries also incorporate elements of gender-neutral relationships. Why not take some more steps in Denmark? There are people who do not want to be put in booths like either one or the other, there are people who do not want others to gain insight into their sex relationships, and that cannot and must not be undermined as just a technical problem or an abstract problem that has been expressed. This is a real challenge on which we can act. Today we have not received clear answers to the need to separate boys and girls from the CPR system. It has not become quite clear what these economic and administrative barriers are exactly. The information contained in a CPR number can nevertheless be withdrawn from the personal data register. As long as there's no good reason for this division into the cpr system with equal and unequal numbers, there's no need to maintain and maintain that system, and then it's the system for its own sake. So we might as well get rid of these cpr numbers and make them sex-neutral in a hurry. Let's have a fight with a narrow and old-fashioned view of sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133851	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. And then I make an exception and allow room for the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, makes an additional comment from the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133902	I thank the President for his flexibility. I must hurry to dedramatize my entry again and deny that I have been lit by any kind of holy fire or anything else. It is simply an oversight. I had promised my colleagues in the Conservative People's Party to announce that they believe the same as the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and this has been done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133920	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518133926	Thank you. It is almost tempting to say: should we not just be helped to remember it for posterity, because then I would have been able to take it with me for Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt? First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for putting forward this proposal to make the CPR number gender neutral. That is a good debate to take. In the SF we agree with the basic intention and also believe in principle that as a citizen you should have the right not to share information about your legal gender when you have to get past the bank or borrow a book in the library, have to attend a meeting of the municipality or otherwise be in contact with the public. This may be particularly true for people who do not identify as either man or woman. But it is also a question of gender playing a smaller role in general in relation to our interaction in society, and of meeting as the people we are, without it being crucial whether we are equal to one sex or another. So, in reality, this is also a proposal for equality. Therefore, we are also willing to discuss whether it is outdated to make a distinction between people's identity, which focuses on gender, in the CPR number. What is actually the basic purpose of this distinction? As also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, the sex declaration is formally unnecessary, since gender is listed as a separate data element within the register of persons. It has nothing to do with the fact that it is easier to structure or systematize on the basis of the equal and unequal numbers in the CPR number. However, we do have a number of reservations which we believe should be taken into account before any neutralisation of the sex declaration in the CPR number can take place. However, our reservations are only about the practical implementation and implementation of the proposal itself. For example, will there be an increase in the number of young people in the Community? are the consequences and challenges of gender neutralising CPR numbers that we cannot see at this stage or have taken into account? How should we deal with the many actors, such as non-governmental organisations, who also use cpr numbers to target messages to specific people on the basis of gender? Will they experience unintended consequences of such gender neutralisation because they do not have direct access to the register of persons? There are certainly several dilemmas and challenges that we should bear in mind. With these reservations, we in the SF are in favour of the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518134156	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Magdalene Maier from the Alternative, gives the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518134206	Thank you, sir. President. Are we on our way to gender-neutral society because we want gender-neutral CPR numbers? Is a gender-neutral CPR numbering system equal to a gender-neutral society? No, it's not. On the contrary, it is equal to a gender conscious.This is about the fact that when we make proposals to make the CPR system gender-neutral, it is a fundamental battle with the gender constraint of the public system You must either define yourself as a man or a woman. We still have that in Denmark; we have chosen that gender should appear in the CPR number, and this has been chosen back in the 1960s, so there have certainly been good reasons for this in the past, or perhaps we have not paid particular attention to the fact that there might also be other needs. So it is not because we intend to bash the reason why the system was chosen at the time, but in each case we have not been very good at keeping up with time. Other countries have done so. There are a number of other countries, and the United States is one of those in which it has been decided that gender should not be included in the CPR number. You can't today correspond with the public without your sex going into play. Actually, you can't. Your doctor visit is pretty, your paycheck is pretty, your loan is pretty, your insurance is pretty and the list could continue. Wherever we are in contact with the public and also in some places with the private, we need our CPR number, which means that it is publicly visible whether we are registered as men or women. In this way, some traditional systems, some gender and gender systems, i.e. our legislation and our IT systems, are pervading. One might then ask: what is really the use of public knowledge of our sex? What's the use of that? Why does it have to be anywhere? In 2012, the Radicals themselves were asking the same question, in relation to why it should be in the passports, which gender we are. The short answer is that there is no point in it; otherwise, I still have no reason to be convinced of the usefulness of today's debate. The only arguments I have heard, which actually had something, can be said in substance, but with which I strongly disagree, came from DF, who argued that we should be men or women only. And we must respect the fact that this is the view that we have on how our understanding of gender in Denmark should be. I have some doubts about the Social Democrats, but all the other rapporteurs I have heard have recognised the need for us to actually start operating with a gender-neutral CPR numbering system and something that goes beyond a binary gender system in Denmark. The minister then says it costs money. It has considerable costs, says the Minister. We do not yet know them, and I could easily have obtained some of the information that we do not have today before this first reading, and I really would have liked to have done so, but I have not had time to do so. I regret this, because it is clear that some of what we are facing now is to find a way of exposing the significant costs that are mentioned and that SF and also LA have some concerns about. I'd appreciate it if we were exposed. Of course we need a map: what will this mean both financially and practically? Are there any practical consequences that we have not just seen through? So, of course, the next step at least in our work must be to start looking at what is really the consequence of such a change. There have been some doubts; some have thought that with this resolution we will force all Danes to have a new CPR number. We therefore do not want to do so, but as the Minister has quite rightly understood, the intention is that from a given point of view new children and new citizens in Denmark should be given continuous CPR numbers. This will mean that in a given period you will have two systems: there will be us old, who have a number attached to our gender, and then all the new ones who have consecutive numbers. I'm sure you can figure out how to live with that because you have data behind the numbers. So I do not think it necessarily has such a high cost, but we will have to look into it, and I would like to acknowledge that. It is the case in a number of countries, in Australia, Argentina, Nepal, India and Germany, that it has actually been decided to officially recognise the third sex. There it is that when you register, you can register as either a man, a woman or a third sex. So it can be said that we are far behind in Denmark in that light. It is not only about us showing publicly what sex you have here because it is on our health insurance card, but we do not have the opportunity to register as a third sex, and that is what other countries do. So the least we can do in Denmark for a start is at least to stop this clear identification of which sex we're registered with. It is also the case that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has dealt with this issue in the past, namely in 2010, and they have actually made a recommendation from which I would like to read out in the Chamber, because it is quite relevant. Here they write, and now I quote, and it is then in English: "Member states should ensure that personal data referring to a person's sexual orientation or gender identity are not collected, stored or otherwise used by public institutions including in particular within law enforcement structures, except where this is necessary for the performance of specific, lawful and legitimate purposes; existing records which do not Comply with these principles should be destroyed. So the European Union has been out to say that we should not in fact be able to access this information publicly about our gender identity. At least there's something to be done about it. It should not therefore be a duty for the Danes to share knowledge about their gender through the CPR number. It should be a right for the Danes that one can choose to keep to oneself, which sex one defines oneself as. We cannot give that right to the Danes yet, it does not exist in the Danish system as long as we stick to the current CPR numbering system. After the speeches today, I can only say, as I mentioned before, that there are several people who agree with us that we have a challenge of principle, and I am very pleased about that, and I acknowledge and thank you for the good statements that have been made up here from the platform. As I said, we're going to look into what this would actually mean if we had to make a change, and then we're going to take it from there. Then we have to see if it is true when the Minister says it has significant costs and what does significant costs mean? In any case, it should not be unanswered without looking into it, so we will do so now. So, so far, I just want to say thank you for the good comments that have been made here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518134932	Thank you. Now this is a Danish parliament, and the negotiations are conducted in Danish here in the Folketing, so that everyone in the population has the opportunity to follow what is happening. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to translate into Danish what was read in English in the speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518134949	Thank you. I'll do that. Now it's gonna be a simultaneous translation, but then we're gonna try it. It states: Member States must ensure that personal data referring to a person's sexual orientation or gender identity are not collected, stored or otherwise used by public institutions, especially when it concerns judicial institutions, except where necessary because they are needed for specific, legal or legal purposes. Existing data that do not comply with these principles should be destroyed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135046	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then I think everyone has understood the messages. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135103	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135122	Today we have to deal with a resolution aimed at increasing citizen involvement and strengthening local democracy. It is a purpose for which I can only sympathise, because it is something that is very close to my heart. One can always discuss which means are best suited to achieving this goal, and that is the discussion I hope we can have here today. The motion for a resolution consists of several elements. The first part of the proposal is to give a majority in a municipal council the opportunity to issue a binding referendum on a municipal matter. The second part of the proposal is to allow citizens of a municipality, following a petition, to demand the holding of a binding municipal referendum. According to the proposal, the subject of such a referendum can be either a matter on which the municipal council has already decided or a municipal matter which has not been dealt with by the municipal council. Firstly, as I said, the motion for a resolution calls for a majority of the municipal council to be able to issue a binding municipal referendum. Today, the municipal council already has the opportunity to issue an indicative referendum. According to the proposal, the municipal council will be able to commit itself in advance to following the outcome of the vote. This will give greater freedom to the municipal council, which will therefore be able to print forward both an indicative but also a binding referendum. This would be a fine addition to the existing tools that the municipal council can use today when it needs to hear the public's opinion on a concrete action that it intends to take. The government is therefore in favour of this part of the resolution. There will be a need to establish a legal basis governing the binding referendums that the municipal council can issue. In this context, it is necessary, among other things, to: the specific model is considered, inter alia: As regards the extent of the binding nature of the referendum, there is also a need to lay down voting rules for the actual conduct of the referendum, as well as the rules applicable to other types of electoral procedure. However, it is all about finding the right framework for implementing the proposal. Then we come to the second part of the resolution which has previously been discussed on several occasions in this Chamber. It is a question of whether to allow citizens of a municipality to demand that binding municipal referendums be held. Let it be said straight away: such a system can be both pros and cons. As you know, local government is based on representative democracy, as is the case here at Christiansborg, where citizens choose representatives to make the current political decisions. The system described in the motion for a resolution introduces another element of direct democracy, that is to say the referendum, but it makes it even more direct in that it allows citizens to have a direct influence on what issues should be addressed. It can be a tool for greater democratic engagement among citizens, that is, greater participation. On the other hand, this will also have consequences for representative democracy. As things stand today, any member of the municipal council may request that a particular issue be dealt with by the municipal council and all citizens may contact a municipal councillor who may then choose to put a specific case on the agenda. With the proposed scheme, the initiative could be left to a small group of voters who are not necessarily representative of voters in the municipality. It could also be imagined that the scheme would be characterised by individual cases or used to paralyse unpopular but necessary political decisions taken by the municipal council. Another consideration is, of course, also what resource use the proposed scheme will entail. If a very large number of municipal referendums are held, this could be a considerable burden for each municipality. It is the government's view that, overall, the disadvantages overshadow the benefits, and the government cannot therefore support this part of the resolution. That is not to say that it is not important that there should be greater involvement of citizens and that we, as politicians, should remember to listen to the people who voted for us and whose interests we are set in the world to defend. As I mentioned earlier, any citizen who has a good idea can give it to a member of the municipal council who can ensure that it is treated in the municipal council. In the same way, we are also introducing an arrangement here in the Folketing, in which we give citizens the opportunity to deal with a proposal in this Chamber, and I would like to call on them to do so at all times. To pick up here in the end, the conclusion is that the government cannot agree to the resolution as a whole, but that the government is positive about the part of the proposal that is about giving municipal councils the opportunity to hold binding referendums. As I mentioned earlier, there is a framework that we need to have in place when drawing up the detailed rules on the scheme, and the government will therefore table a bill on binding municipal referendums printed by the municipal council in the next assembly. We will have ample opportunity to discuss the concrete model both with the proposers and with the other parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135721	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135724	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the positive attitude towards one part of the resolution; we are very pleased about that in the Danish People's Party. We'd like to pick up the glove and have a really good discussion about it. We are so unhappy that the Minister and the government cannot support the second part of that proposal, because, as I said, we have confidence in the citizens, and we see a little metal fatigue in the ordinary, established democracy, where parties lose members because the citizens want participation, but want it here and now, on a case-by-case basis. Is the Minister not confident that local citizens would also like the best for their city?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135816	I am very confident that citizens will want the best for the city in which they live, and also for the country in which they live. On the whole, I think it is a good starting point to have confidence in the citizens. This could rightly be spread over legislation in all areas; I think we could benefit greatly from that. Then there may be metal fatigue in the political system, but I do believe that the Danish political system has a particularly robust character in relation to the political systems of many other countries precisely because we have a political system with, among other things, one of them. a low barrier limit to the Folketing, which ensures that new currents in the population can be represented more quickly in here. I also believe that this is one of the reasons why we see such high percentages of votes in Denmark compared to many other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135904	I would like to thank the Minister and we shall move on to the list of rapporteurs. The first is sir. Magnus Heunicke as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518135923	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I would also like to thank the Minister for a very thorough and basically very sensible presentation of the matter. And I have to say that I think the Minister's points were reasonable, but first of all I would like to say that the intentions of the motion for a resolution, that is to say, to vitalise or perhaps revitalize local democracy, are shared by me and we in the Social Democrats, in other words to revitalise it and get more people to participate. The question is just how to do it, and I look forward to working on this proposal in committee, because I have been following local government in Denmark for 15 years now, I think, since I was first employed as a young student assistant in KL. So I've really been following it closely. There have been various referendums in our municipalities, mainly on municipal reform, and I know that the decision that the people wanted has always been followed, that is, the result of the vote. And that has been indicative. But if it becomes binding, which is an element of the proposal, then you should not just be able to hear the Minister's speech in such a way that you would like to look at it. And we would also like to look at that from the Socialist side, but it obviously requires that there is a problem before it can be resolved, and I am not really aware of whether there is a problem here. As far as the second part is concerned, I must also agree with the slightly more sceptical tone of the Minister, because we have a representative democracy in Denmark, and I am a great supporter of that. It can be better, we can get more people to run, and that can be done now, because there are actually elections for our municipalities and regions shortly. So it's great that you can do it. I am a great supporter of that. I would fear that with such a proposal there would be an unfortunate undermining of representative democracy, and it is so concrete the city council that we are talking about here where some perhaps strong citizens' groups could trump something despite what the city council should have in mind, namely the whole municipality, that there is good service throughout the municipality. Not least after the municipal reform, we have had very large municipalities. That is to say, we must have the requirement for our city council to think about the whole municipality. And it might be feared that with such a proposal here it would be individual cases, perhaps individual geographical cases, institutions and other things, which would be voted home contrary to an overall view. That is why we cannot support the proposal. We thank you for starting this debate and we would very much like to work on the element of whether it should be indicative or binding referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140235	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140240	Thank you. I can start by saying that confidence in the citizens would have been a little greater. We are demanding more and more of the local communities, including in the municipalities, voluntary associations, all sorts of social life, etc., where we want citizens to support. But association participation in the established political parties is, after all, decreasing, and I do not think it is because people out there are not political. On the contrary, they are very political and would really like to get involved. They just do not want the whole package that a party contains, but want to participate actively in democracy in relation to some individual cases that they are passionate about. Does the rapporteur not think that we could get even more citizens involved, including volunteers, if we dared to give them a little bit of responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140336	But that's exactly where we have it. The rapporteur himself said that these are individual cases. And it is true that there will then be a great deal of focus on some individual cases that some citizens' groups can engage in and get through. But then you can risk a shipwreck on the whole view, because then it is a single matter • it can be a single place in the municipality, a single school, a single social effort • that must enjoy the promotion. But what about everything else that may not be as popular in the single case hierarchy? Is that supposed to be in the back of the line? Because now the money is spent on the other thing people have voted on. That is what I can fear, then, that individual cases take too much in relation to the whole thing that we must also think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140425	In fact, I do not think the rapporteur should be so worried about that. Because it is out on the ground, and one can also vote against, and then the proposal will fall. You can be both committed for and against. And then we must always bear in mind that these proposals must, of course, follow the constitution and must not go beyond ordinary levels of service in relation to the great things. But I'd like us to have the courage to open up a little more. We demand so much of the volunteers, but we do not dare to give them just the last touch that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140504	I can see that the authors of the motion have been very, very inspired by Switzerland. Now we have to speak Danish on the platform, we have been lectured on that, so I will do so, but there are several German references in German from Switzerland in the explanatory statement and comments on the proposal itself. And it is excellent that we are very concerned about the Swiss model of democracy. I am more in favour of the Danish model of democracy. It is, of course, all right if the Danish People's Party would rather have something Swiss. I'd rather have the Danish. I think Danish democracy is the best we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140538	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140547	Thank you. The proposal is based on two elements of good intentions: the intention to promote democratic engagement. This will be done, on the one hand, by giving local authorities the opportunity to make an indicative referendum, on the other hand, by giving the public the opportunity to have a referendum on a matter which has been dealt with by a municipal council but also by matters that have not been dealt with by a municipal council. For the first time, the possibility for the municipal councils to make indicative referendums within the existing framework... the Left has the immediate approach that the framework is present today. That may be an argument for not working on it. I also recognise that this may be an argument for further work on it and for improving the framework that exists. That is why the Left is happy to go into a further process on the first part of the proposal, but immediately takes the view that the framework is there today. In relation to the second part, the people can demand a referendum: this is something the Left cannot support. Democracy is based on popular commitment. But democracy is also based on political decision-making power, where some people hold elected office, and the elected office has to take up holistic and not individual cases. Democracy is based on commitment, which one can indeed have, without the idea being that individual cases should be governing in the form of citizens' hearings, citizens' meetings and everything else. The democratic commitment must be measured from the left in terms of democratic decision-making power. Because with experience in a regional council, a municipal council, and indeed in a parliament, you could have been in a situation where perhaps not many people were in favour of what was decided. On the other hand, no one was in favour of an alternative. One can well imagine that a majority of the population was in favour of the location of a police school in West Denmark, but was not in favour of it being placed in one municipality because one wanted it in another municipality. That is why democracy is a reduction in decision-making power if it is to be based on the fact that a majority that does not agree on an alternative, but agrees on what they are against, can govern it. Can decisions be made in a municipal council against which citizens are opposed? Yeah. Is there anything they can do about it? Yeah, every four years when there's a choice. Against this background, the Left is willing to go into the further course proposed by the Minister on behalf of the government around the first part and cannot support the second part. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140948	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518140953	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur talk a little about the possibility of voting in local authorities, and we can do that. It is possible today to make votes in the municipalities, which are not binding. They're practically not really used. I thought I heard the Minister talk about that too. I am thinking of the fact that I would call on both the Left, which is in government, and the Minister, when we are going to have this discussion on what should happen in relation to the first part of it, that we might also look at the fact that the municipalities committed themselves, or that it became easier to make non-binding votes in the municipalities, or that we had an analysis of why they are not being used, or the possibility of using them. Would the rapporteur think that this could be a debate we could have?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141047	I certainly think so. But unless it was a lapsus, the rapporteur used the term non-binding. But the crux of the matter is that the new thing here is that it must be binding. However, it can be decided today as a municipal council that an indicative vote should be binding, as well as the referendums of the 1980s on the European Union had the same element in it. I would say that when I point out that the first part of the legislative proposal is very close to the framework that exists today, it is because I recognise that it is a framework that has not been used. And what are some of the reasons for this? I am certainly willing to look at this with all the other good parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141143	What I actually meant by my question was whether a binding part could be done to enable citizens to have the right to a vote. So that the municipal council can be kept up to be able to have this vote here, but that it is ultimately not binding on what the municipal council should then adopt and that the citizens can then signal what the citizens of that municipality think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141214	I'm willing to look into it. I just think we have never been in a situation where citizens have had so easy to draw attention to what they think we are in now. There are groups on Facebook where you are against one thing and the other, just to take an example. However, everything that can refine the citizen's commitment without compromising on the ability to see the whole rather than individual cases, in relation to what has to be decided, is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141244	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141256	Thank you very much and many thanks to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal. Unlike the previous rapporteurs, the Enhedslist is included in both elements of the proposal. We can support it in the form it has. It was, as was said, that it would undermine representative democracy. We see this quite differently, because on the contrary, an instrument of this kind that is being given to the people will be something that can be used to the very highest degree to strengthen representative democracy. For that would force a municipal council or a majority of a municipal council or a mayor into a real dialogue with the population, in other words, if such a binding referendum were called for by groups in the municipality. After all, the Danish People's Party itself proposes that we can discuss how large a group there should be. And I think we agree that it should be a fairly large group of people so that we do not have referendums on anything every two seconds and on very small matters. However, I think we can easily mention some examples where there are many local communities and citizens around the country who would have liked to have had an instrument, for example. to prevent school closure with the negative consequences that a school closure may have in terms of thinning a local community. Once the school is closed, many others move, and then the shops close, etc., and those who remain are older and vulnerable citizens. There would then be an instrument such as this which, as a population group, could be used as one, we should say the utmost outcry in relation to a feeling of being run over. I think that when such proposals come forward, it reflects that people around the country, and especially in what is called the outskirts, have an experience of being left on the platform, while it all centers in the larger cities. It may be one background, and there may also be similar occasions in the big cities. And if you have a basic view that you are not afraid to go out and meet the citizens, if there is something the citizens would like very much, then you would rather be happy that the citizens can have such an instrument. I don't think it's most citizens' groups who want to use this as the first. They will of course start with the usual means now available in the democratic debate in the municipalities: convening meetings and convening politicians, making demonstrations, etc., in other words all the good tools we have in Danish democracy. And then it is probably only in a situation where it doesn't work and you can't get politicians talking, that the citizens say: now we have to get this work started, because we want a decision. It is precisely with regard to local politics that I think there are two reasons why this is a good tool to put in place. One is the violent centralisation, which I have mentioned a little, which has taken place in the wake of the municipal reform which has now taken place ten years ago. It makes it very, very far to the municipal council and it has become very, very difficult to shout them out. And there I think it is quite fair to introduce the possibility that citizens can use such tools as this. The second point is that the rapporteur of the Left says that if people are dissatisfied, they can just wait until four years from now when there are municipal elections. But that is perhaps one of the problems, that is, that we have a system in local politics, in which there is no possibility of asking the electorate on the way in the individual municipality, for example. in relation to the fact that a majority in the individual municipality would like to fire the mayor not because he has taken out of the box, because we have been given the opportunity to do so, but fire the mayor for political reasons. You can't do that. Then you have to wait four years, and then I think it is good to give the citizens and the electorate such an opportunity. Finally, I would like to say something about politicians. Actually, I don't think this necessarily solves that. Because where does the politician come from? I think it comes mainly from one thing. Well, there may be something about overuse and leg rodentism and things and stuff, and I think that plays a role. But the main reason for politicians in Denmark is that politicians do the opposite of what they promised in the election campaign. And here, too, such instruments will be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141758	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141803	Thank you. What led me to ask for the floor was the comment that the legislation is the case today, that if a mayor has been elected at the inaugural city council, that person is elected by law for the whole period. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten uses this as an argument to say that, as in referendums, we have the opportunity to change this. Is it a perfectly fair example to give in view of the fact that the proposal is precisely that the referendums should be within the framework of current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141843	Okay, then I think I had a vague wording, because I do not believe that a binding referendum is in the proposal, and that is clearly described. It cannot change the fact that the municipal council is composed for four years at a time; that is not what I meant. I meant the possibility of influencing the decisions of the municipal council in a specific political matter by using the tool described here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141911	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518141914	I'm glad we got it settled, but what you saw was that you now have the opportunity to draw attention and influence. But does the rapporteur not recognize that now we should not make the possibilities completely eliminate the fact that one can object, that there are citizens' hearings and that there are plenty of opportunities in the democratic municipal landscape today to draw attention to one's views? And anyone who has had debates about hospital closures, school closures or wind turbines has been able to see what democratic opportunities there are today to draw attention to their point of view. I say this a little further to the statement that this now offers the opportunity to tell a municipal council what they think. I think the rapporteur is a little forgetting that we also have those opportunities today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142016	What I meant was that it allows us to change the decisions. You don't have that option today. That is simply the difference. I fully agree with that, in fact, I myself said that we as citizens have a lot of tools to influence politicians. Fortunately, then, we live in a society in which citizens make great use of it, but they also see many times that it just does not change anything, because I now take the general picture since the structural reform which the rapporteur's party was the initiator of schools, hospitals, merchants, etc. Well, it's just been closed anyway. Unless it is because you do not want to be disturbed in the work of closing and centralising, I see nothing more than that it must be quite fair to give citizens one, I would say kind of emergency brake in relation to such situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142115	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142123	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you for the suggestion, which looks exciting. I do not think I should lecture the House on what representative democracy is all about. That is, in fact, the reason why we are standing here. But it is clear that this kind of democracy has both advantages and disadvantages. We have already heard that in the debate. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether it is more democratic to leave decisions directly to the citizens. That is what the proposers are proposing here, in other words to allow the municipal council to issue binding local referendums and to allow citizens to demand a specific referendum by means of petitions. Here I think we're inside the core when we're • and I also thought I heard DF mention it himself • is in a situation where you don't want to buy the whole package. That's how it was expressed. Then we risk going in selectively and saying that this is more important than anything else. Then we find ourselves in a situation where interest in the whole is more difficult, which can easily be of such a dull economic nature that some money is not enough because some of the selective reasons are involved in individual cases. In fact, I think we will have a contradiction there, although I can understand the commitment. When we are on the point of commitment, which is of course important in a democracy, I think we should also be aware that Denmark is probably the country that has the most user boards, local councils, what do I know, that is, places you can go in and have an influence that you would otherwise not be able to have. It has also been mentioned now with the viral media in relation to facebook groups, where you can quickly establish an interest organisation without there being any proper statute, but which can give political pressure. So we have some people also said that if you can do this here in the Folketing, why can't you do it more with binding referendums in the municipalities? There I think we should be aware that it is always very such a matter of principle when we put something out here in the Danish Parliament. And there is a very long debate, a very costy debate with a lot of press and so on, which cannot always be secured on local issues. We also know that if there is a single theme that goes up, it may well be that at a time when we are being hit by fake news like this, a popular mood may arise about a matter that may not deserve the strength it has, because perhaps it does not have the substance to do, but you might run out of a really strong knack. That is also the kind of thing I see as a danger if you put everything out and also let citizens choose the subject themselves. I also see a major problem in how to define what themes are to be put forward for a referendum. So it is not a problem-free exercise, although there are a lot of interesting ideas in the proposal. As the Minister has also mentioned, we are very happy to look at opportunities for more binding municipal referendums. So we would like to continue working on that part of the proposal. These are the comments on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142511	One brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eliassen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142515	Eilersen, but otherwise it's okay. Wow, that's a lot of things you thought the citizens could do in the municipalities, both of an economic nature and of a small kind, and something like that. In fact, I believe that the citizens of the municipalities are quite interested in the fact that their municipality operates as well as possible for all parties. I also believe that you want the best for your municipality, and I simply do not share the rapporteur's scepticism that you want to squander the economy or whatever it almost sounded like, because the citizens are well aware that if money is spent in one place, they have to be taken elsewhere. Then the rapporteur is afraid that the citizens will be the worst in terms of a referendum, or how should I interpret it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142613	I have to say that I can find examples of where some citizens' groups may not always have a clear focus on the municipality's overall economy, so let me put it this way, so I think I have been very kind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142631	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen? Abandoning. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518142641	Thank you for that, President. I'm gonna tell you, I'm a body double for sir. Torsten Gejl. B 102, draft parliamentary resolution on binding municipal votes. Let me say as a starting point that this is a very good proposal, we think, from DF, to which it is proposed. In the alternative, we want to revitalise democracy and promote the local involvement of the citizens. It seems that I cannot be heard up there, I am turning up a little; I cannot do that, so I must speak a little louder. In other words, we want to promote the local involvement of the citizens, just as there are several elements to this resolution which remind us of the same thing that we put forward in relation to national referenda, B 169, in the last session. We would like to discuss the elements of this in more detail. In concrete terms, the proposal means that the citizens' ability to express themselves, to be heard, to put forward an agenda and to expand a debate is strengthened, and we think that is necessary tools in relation to democracy 2.0, that is to say how we can make it look in our good society. We have not concealed the fact that we want a much more inclusive political culture in the Alternative, and this also requires that we have even more citizen involvement, even more dialogue, even more democracy, if we want to, and that we break down the walls here at Christiansborg, and we do so in municipal terms in relation to the centralisation that has taken place since the municipal reform. This is a proposal inspired by Swiss constructions where we were inspired by Finnish constructions in relation to the national proposal, and I think it is very good that we go out and seek inspiration in Europe for our resolution and legislation. So, as I said, we think it is good and that it is well worked out. There are several good points in the comments on the motion for a resolution, but I have one or two points on which I would like Torsten to take up further consideration and on which I would like to put a few questions to the rapporteur. The question that has been raised from the Liberal parties in particular is whether this will open up individual cases, that we are running for some populism and popular moods. How are you gonna deal with that? Because we are very positive about the proposal, but we also think that it is relevant anchors and questions to ask. In addition, you yourself write in your comments on the proposal that, in order to avoid parties putting themselves on the citizens' initiative, it may also be considered that, prior to an initiative, independent voting committees may be formed. These voting committees must not be a political community. You have to operate independently of the parties, but as a politician you are not prevented from contributing to or being on the committee and helping with the collection of signatures. And there may also be a concern that it will then just be an extension and a new tool on the part of a politician to run through his party program or other cases. We should also like to talk about how to ensure this in relation to it. However, in addition to that, we think it is good that it is well worked out and that it helps to revitalise our democratic debate and we are in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143053	I guess Torsten is Mr. Torsten. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143105	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for giving rise to a debate on municipal autonomy and democracy at all. It has given us in the Radical Left the opportunity to have a good and interesting dialogue in recent days with our city council members, and it has been informative and interesting for us in the radical parliamentary group. So not only thank you to DF, but also here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament a thank you to the radical urban roots who have participated in the debate. We are not in favour of this proposal. The radical Left's view of democracy is based on the fact that democracy is not just about a vote in which a majority votes down the minority. For us, too, democracy is dialogue and dialogue, in which, through a process in a parliament, city council or committee, as many views as possible are heard and in the way we see it, the best decision will end up, which the majority of the population can vouch for. A referendum on a specific subject may be able to bring together 51 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. Or maybe even 100 percent. We believe that through our representative democracy, as it is called, we end up with decisions that embrace the population much wider than in a simple referendum. We think more people are being heard. Referendums do not provide minority protection either. One could imagine a situation back in the early 1900s. Would the men in Denmark, through a referendum, have chosen to allow women to vote? If we look at a country such as Switzerland, which has extensive referendums, women were not given the right to vote until 1971. After all, it is many years later than in Denmark, although it also took some 70 years, from the time we got a constitution, until women were allowed to vote with. In referendums, minorities are run over, but in a process in a city council or parliament, minorities can be heard and have the opportunity to influence the majority decision. We also believe that members of the Council and members of the Regional Council, as well as members of the parliament, should be responsible for their actions. It should not be the case that you can run away from the responsibility of making an unpopular decision on where, for example, there is one. must be a landfill, by issuing a referendum. We also believe that it is good for the turnout and participation in associations and parties to have a form of democracy that we have today. We think we should discuss how citizens can be heard more and better. We want to help citizens, as we have chosen to do here in the Folketing, to have the opportunity to put a case on the agenda of a city council or a regional council. There may also be other ideas that can allow citizens to have things dealt with in a city council or regional council that we could be involved in. But we cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143436	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143441	You can risk 51 percent. in writing. - (SV) The rapporteur agrees with a vote, and that is then a problem. We see city councils today, which are representatively composed of less than 51 per cent. of those who voted for them because of the methods we have, namely the D'Honian method. Does the rapporteur also see this as a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143510	I just think it would be better if 90 percent. through a dialogue and process could agree on something other than that it is only 51 per cent that will agree. We had a treatment about what's called the d'Honian method. There we agree with the Danish People's Party that this should be done so that there is a better connection between how many votes you get and how many seats you get in a city council and in a regional council.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143537	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen? No. I do not see any more brief remarks, so we thank Mr. Andreas Steenberg. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143547	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for a proposal that puts democracy on the agenda. Recently I participated in the day of democracy, a wonderful event in Skanderborg, where I participated in a panel together with other politicians. On a scale of 1 to 10, the Danish democracy got very high grades and rightly so, I think. Citizens have good opportunities to enter into dialogue with politicians in both the municipalities and the regions and the Folketing. And it is, and remains, the citizens who clearly choose the representatives who have to look after our interests. On the other hand, I believe that we need to improve the promotion of good opportunities. This does not mean that we cannot improve the democratic dialogue with the citizens. For example, the SF city council politicians in the country have suggested that citizens should have the opportunity to make proposals which can be dealt with by the municipal council, but, as far as I know, they have not yet been successful in the proposal. In fact, you could also imagine that I would like to have a similar opportunity in the Danish Parliament. It makes the most sense that it is the local representatives who are discussing whether we should experiment with more citizen democracy. If it is in the form of proposals for consideration by the municipal council, proposals that certain themes may trigger local referendums, or whether it is a proposal for more meetings where citizens and politicians can enter into dialogue with each other, as is often the case in many municipalities. The SF therefore does not believe that it makes sense that we should regulate local democracy with more rules than those which already offer such good opportunities for local democracy and experiments adapted precisely to the local area to which the rules should apply. The SF cannot therefore support the proposal, but thanks for a good debate on the democracy that we also very much want to safeguard and strengthen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143750	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518143758	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. The motion for a resolution is about requiring the government to amend the legislation so that municipal councils can issue binding referendums. This is the first part of the proposal. of those entitled to vote want it in different contexts. On the conservative side, we have great sympathy for the intention of the proposal, which is, of course, to increase citizens' commitment to the local political agenda. Our local democracy is important and it is something we must safeguard. We can support the power of local authorities to issue binding referendums. They have already done so today, or at least they have the opportunity to issue an indicative referendum and then then choose to follow the outcome of that vote. If you want to hold a binding vote, we also think that we should give it the opportunity. So we can back that part up. So far, so good. In relation to the second part of the proposal, we are opposed to imposing 10% on the municipalities. The citizens must be able to demand a referendum. As the rules are today, there is really nothing to prevent a municipal council saying that if we get enough signatures, we want a referendum. But we do not think it is the right way to make it binding. There will be many situations where a holistic municipal strategy will be made more difficult if individual elements can be selected as citizens and then required to be put to the vote. We can imagine a situation where you need to make some unpopular decisions to provide some funding, because you want to develop some other parts of the municipality. Then there is the risk that the source of funding that has been used to develop another part of the municipality, which may be supported, can subsequently be reversed in a referendum. I think it is very important that we ensure good citizen involvement in local politics, and there are many opportunities for this today. This has been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs. Many people do so on social media; there are hearings when there are municipal policy proposals; and there are citizens' meetings, etc. etc. I believe that we may also be able to go another way to ensure greater involvement of citizens. I believe that increased freedom for the municipalities can be part of the answer, so that the municipalities and municipal councils will have better opportunities to set a local political agenda and make a focused effort for the local areas. I think that could lead to an increased interest in local politics. In addition, the government has also provided funds for an information campaign in connection with the forthcoming municipal elections. We had a debate on this in this Chamber not long ago. With those words, I would say that we in the Conservatives can support the intention to strengthen local democracy, but we can only support the first part of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518144049	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518144057	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his positive approach and for the fact that we may be able to start a little debate on at least one part. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for its full support, just as the alternative was also very positive. I understand that there may be a lot of questions, such as: The rapporteur of the alternative had. We are not going to go into them now, but in the end we have also written in our resolution that the most important thing for us was to get started on this. How it was to be drafted and so on, we would have liked to have a committee discussion on that, so those technical questions that could then have been would have come there. But the Danish People's Party is tabling this resolution because we believe it is important to look at democracy with new eyes. What can we do to get people to participate more actively in democratic work? The best place to start is in the municipalities, where the political decision is close to the citizens and the political decisions often have a noticeable impact on the everyday lives of the individual. We believe that the time is ripe for us to give our people's rule a vitamin injection by involving citizens more. Representative democracy has begun to show signs of fatigue. According to Weekly Letter A4, half of the voters express politicians. At the same time, we see that the total number of political parties is decreasing. One would then think that it was an indication that people are not interested in politics, but the measurements show the opposite. The electorate supports representative democracy, but they also want to have influence themselves. They will not just vote every four years and have to deal with a single party's party programme. People will be allowed to vote on a case-by-case basis instead of choosing the whole package as one party is. The Danish People's Party trusts that citizens both want and can make informed decisions. Referendums do not weaken representative democracy. It strengthens it because it involves citizens and provides an opportunity to correct a decision taken by politicians. As has been said before, the Danish People's Party has been inspired by Switzerland. I will remember to speak Danish up here, because I am neither good at German nor French, so it will be in Danish. Our cultural and school rapporteur, Alex Ahrendtsen, has actually been on leave here from Parliament to study Swiss democracy. This resolution is based on the knowledge that Alex Ahrendtsen has taken from his stay and on the experience that Alex Ahrendtsen has had with Swiss democracy. After all, we are proposing that we should now implement the two points. One is, as I said before, that a majority of a municipal council can issue a vote and that citizens can also force a board of directors to do so with different options. We can see that we do not have a majority in favour of the resolution as it stands here, but we are extremely pleased that in the new session we can take up the debate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in that debate we should perhaps also look at why referendums are not being used in the municipalities today, referendums that are not binding and why people are not being asked; whether it is because there is some opposition to it in municipal politics or in administrative political life out there, or whether the citizens are just not aware of it and should be informed about it. In any case, we would also like to get into the discussion that referendums were used a little more municipally. We must then live with the fact that they are not binding, but at least that is a step in the right direction. So thank you very much for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518144459	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we also got credited to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518144517	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518144530	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss ferries. We have enjoyed this very much here in the Danish Parliament in recent years, and today we have the opportunity to discuss elf ferries. Of course, in an archipelago like Denmark, the ferries are extremely important because the ferries constitute the very lifeline for the inhabitants of the many islands that depend on ferry operations. This is whether it is transport to and from school or work or it is a matter of transporting goods to the local grocery store on the island or from local producers to the mainland. In recent years, state subsidies have been set up to reduce ferry charges for passenger and freight transport, and we can already see a marked increase in traffic figures in many places. This helps to support the local business community on the islands and ensure a well-functioning full-year society, so that the islands can also experience development and growth. I welcome this, and we had the pleasure of welcoming it together recently when we first dealt with the proposal to introduce the principle of road transport throughout the year, except during the summer holidays. The motion for a resolution here states that for each ferry route it may be economically advantageous because of lower energy consumption and reduced maintenance costs to switch to electricity. All other things being equal, it should help to create a basis for the municipalities to be able to further lower ferry tariffs, and that is a good thing, but for several good reasons the government cannot support the resolution. The government's starting point is that it is the individual municipality that is responsible for organising ferry operations according to local conditions, and the local conditions are very different. I am convinced that the municipalities themselves are in a position to make an assessment of when it would be economically most responsible to choose an electric ferry rather than another ferry. Therefore, it is not necessary for the State, as stated in paragraph 1 of the proposal, to reward or penalise this choice by supporting ticket price reductions only when the choice is made on an electric ferry. It is not, in fact, the intention of state subsidies that it is a question of whether or not it is an electric ferry. It is a question of making cheap tickets with the aim of ensuring growth and prosperity on the islands and equality between those who live on the many smaller islands of the country and all of us when it comes to transport. The municipalities are already working on projects dealing with all or part of the electricity operation in the ferry sector. Denmark's first electric ferry is already being built. It brings new experiences that others can also benefit from in the future. Furthermore, under the auspices of the Ferry Secretariat, work is being done on a model for a flexible ferry, in other words a kind of hybrid ferry, which also has the possibility of power operation. In the long term, the development of this ferry could probably turn into a proposal for a genuine standard ferry which can be adapted to local conditions. The work of the Ferry Secretariat can thus contribute to a good basis for decision in the individual municipalities, so that they do not each have to start from scratch. Moreover, the proposal here seems to be based on the assumption that a large part of municipal ferries are faced with having to be replaced. However, I am not aware that there is evidence that there should be a massive wave of new ferry investments on the way. In any case, the responsibility for making the decision on investment in the municipalities lies, and I think we would do well to maintain that. That is why I would also like to stress that there are no plans to allocate state funds for the replacement of existing ferries in the municipalities, as proposed in paragraph 2 of the proposal. In this context, I would like to point out that I have recently heard thoughts about the potentials of stronger municipal cooperation in the ferry sector, and that sounds exciting, because the municipalities have just the opportunity to come together in, for example. joint local ferry companies. This can provide a stronger starting point for considering new solutions such as elf ferries. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that the government also sees advantages in the possibility of a new technology coming when the time is right, but in the government we are confident that the municipalities themselves will solve the ferry task and, of course, think in new solutions to the extent that they think it is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145018	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145021	Thank you. I could, of course, hear the Minister say that he is not aware that there are massive waves of ferry replacements on the way. I think the Minister is right about that. But could it not be exciting as a government also to try to get ahead of a development and perhaps even push a development into action rather than so reactively to sit back and think that if such a wave were on the way, perhaps one would consider going ahead with something? There is, of course, an opportunity here to stand, if I may say so, on the bridge and perhaps decide in which direction we should develop. Could it not be very tempting for a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145056	Sometimes you have to be careful not to be led into temptation, write it, and I will do so here too, even though I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge is doing his best. I do not want to decide whether the municipalities should choose elf ferries over other ferries. It's kind of the short version of the long speech I've just given.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145108	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145121	I heard the conclusion too. I was perhaps a little interested in getting a little more into the content of it, but let us then stick to the conclusion that, in the Minister's view, it is the decision of each municipality and that they should be able to figure out how to calculate it. It is true that in the short term they can calculate their way to the economic bottom line, but here again I think it might be a little interesting if we had a government that dared to take the lead in a development that could also make the environmental bottom line go better not only by getting rid of diesel-powered ferries, but also by getting Denmark in the driver's seat so that we could put ourselves on the market that is completely unthinkable in the years to come where lots of European routes will be replaced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145204	Denmark has a government that puts Denmark in the environmental driver's seat, but coercion, in relation to what kinds of ferries the municipalities should invest in, or state money for such, is not part of our programme for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145223	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145227	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. So, as far as coercion is concerned, it's interesting when it comes to where you start the analysis. Now we have just had a discussion in the Chamber about gender-neutral CPR numbers, and we have all sorts of other debates in the Chamber, but if we have no planet to live on, those debates can be irrelevant. Is the Minister responsible for ensuring that we deliver a planet to our children and grandchildren? And in that case, why is it that the Minister will not look at what is environmentally responsible for our transport when it comes to ferry operations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145311	I certainly believe that we have a responsibility to deliver a better society to the next generation, and I can promise the questioner that we will. Capitalism is to be thanked for this because it is the one who makes sure that growth and thus more wealth come and thus something to benefit from. And that should be the questioner as well as I thank him for being the result of living in a capitalist time, so that there is any wealth and wealth to distribute, otherwise everything else would just be theoretical talk. On behalf of the environment, this government has clear ambitions. That is quite clear from the government base. It is just not part of our strategy that we will decide which ferries the municipalities should invest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145400	Thank you. I do not know why the Minister just sneaked a tribute to capitalism into the answer here. Well, I asked about the environment. But is the Minister aware of the report that Siemens has made and where they have just said, when we are talking about economics, that it is economically viable for seven out of ten ferries to be converted into electricity to the Danish small islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145428	If it is economically profitable, the municipalities assume that they are making the most economically viable decision, because I believe that there are wise people in the municipalities and that there are not only wise people in this Parliament. And that is really what we are discussing, namely whether it is the locals who are best at making the decision in question or whether we are wiser than them. When I made my tribute to capitalism, to which the questioner asks, I would say that it is because capitalism is good too much, including for the environment, because consumers can, of course, influence what is happening. So hurry to capitalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145501	It was taken care of in five seconds, and then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145505	But it is now the case with this capitalism and this market that it really has to be regulated once in a while if you want it to be in the direction you want it to be, and it is, of course, a political decision. And as such, it must enter the market. It is just the Minister's unwillingness to go in and use state funds where it is left to the municipalities. Is the Minister aware that, in the past, state funds, a ferry pool, have been set aside also under the auspices of some of the parties which are currently part of the government? It is a ferry pool that has run out, if I may say so. There's no more money in it, and it's almost years ago that it was. But it was precisely to replace some ferries around, because the product that was was not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145554	Yes, yes, but let us now look at what this resolution is about. It's about whether or not we should promote elf ferries. The government does not want to impose this on the municipalities. Then you can make your wishes about it, but it does not change my view as to whether it is a good idea. Well, that's such an argument that sometimes is. We are told by one question after another: This will simply be the world's best business. But if this is the world's best business, shouldn't we leave it to the municipalities to do the good business that the Danish left is convinced they can do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145640	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145643	It is absolutely true that the resolution is about elfærger, because that is where we have reached technologically. It can be said that the next generation of ferries would also like to become elf ferries, but we are in a transitional period, and it is, of course, like the resolution that aims to help ensure the development that is the best and the most sustainable for our environment and climate. And it is true that it is a political decision whether you want it and, therefore, will also influence the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145718	But what if there are routes where it does not pay to have an electric ferry, not necessarily for economic reasons, but also because the batteries still had to fill too much, or what do I know? If there are places where this is a bad idea, should they be penalised on fares compared to others? I don't think so. I think that everything we have done for the ferries and for the islands is about promoting the principle of road transport, not promoting certain technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145750	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518145757	Thank you. After a very punchy tribute to capitalism, it is time to get down to the earth or even to the water again. I would like to thank the proposers for giving us the opportunity to discuss the power technology of the future and the possibility of moving from conventional fuel to power operation on our ferries. It is very good to have the opportunity to discuss it, and it is also a discussion that has some exciting perspectives, both in relation to the climate struggle, but also in relation to better air quality, and thus there are also some health benefits in it. It would also be a good thing if, because of our many islands and connections, the maritime nation of Denmark would be able to set the course for future ferry services, or perhaps even, as the rapporteur for the proposers said, create a business adventure while we are doing something good for the climate and the environment. Electric ferries are far better for both our environment and our climate, which is why they are also the future. It is, of course, because wind power and electricity can at all contribute to being an energy resource that is green and that is renewable, to these ferries, and in this way we can also avoid being dependent on oil-producing countries in the Middle East. Fortunately, a great many good initiatives are already under way in this area. In fact, in Denmark we are also showing the way in this area. Yesterday, for example, there was a large article in Berlingske, which focused on precisely the electric ferry operation. The article said: "Before the summer holiday, travelers can enjoy the silence and fresh air by sailing across the Sound with the world's largest electric ferry. Electricity is increasingly the future of shorter crossings in Danish waters. • The article continues: • Against this background, we will reduce our emissions by about 50%, simply because half of the ferries are powered by electricity. The latter is stated by the head, Henrik Rørbæk, for the Swedish, but Australian owned shipping company. The same article also shows, but also from many other sources, that elfærger is gaining momentum, including on other routes. For example, on the much-used route Rødby-Puttgarden and on Gedser-Rostock, hybrid ferries have already been installed that use part of the power of the ship's diesel generator to charge the batteries. Also on Ærø you are building a clean electric ferry, which around the turn of the year is expected to be installed on the crossing between Søby on Ærø and Fynshav on Als. In the same way, many Danish ferry crossings in these years have begun to go the hybrid road, including on the Venøfærgen in Limfjorden and Sejerøfærgen off northwest Zealand. So we are already pointing the way in Denmark with a number of positive progress in this area. In fact, I think that in this area we can afford to put our backs on the ferry horn as well as perhaps tossing the horn. We are, in fact, ahead of a technology that has some great potentials. Then, of course, we can always discuss whether we are ambitious enough. Can you make it even greener? Can you do even better? I am absolutely convinced that the authors of this proposal want to signal that Denmark can go further. If we look at this proposal, we should also bear in mind that it is not a proposal which is free of charge, and that is why, of course, it will require further discussion in committee in relation to the economy of it. I also note that the chairman of the few small ferry companies, Søren Andersen, says that the green ferry conversion should take place at market conditions, that it should not be done by political coercion, and it makes no sense to force anything down on the companies. I think it can be said that we in the Socialist Group are convinced that the SF has had the best intentions with this proposal to promote the use of ferries, and that is why we are also willing to discuss in committee at a more general level how we can proceed along this road, so that in a few years' time we can see even more electric ferries in Danish waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150227	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150237	Thank you. On this proposal, I would like to begin by saying that Mr. Karsten Hønge has said that it will not support the Danish People's Party. There are three elements in the proposal and I would just like to explain why we cannot support it immediately. In relation to the issue of making the subsidy, the principle of the road, depending on whether it is conventional ferries or electric ferries, it is not at all the whole idea behind that of subsidising ferry tickets. It is simply to strengthen the industry in the small islands, to strengthen tourism, and it should not be dependent on whether it is an electric ferry or a diesel-powered ferry. The second element is that you have to have such a certain state cofinancing of this. There I have to admit that there are so many places where I could do more joy, I think, and perhaps also create greater socio-economic value with the same money. Finally, this is how we should judge when municipalities and other ferry companies will have to replace their ferries. I think it is something about depreciation periods that regulates it, and then, of course, it is always about profitability when you have to re-anchor a ferry. I am sure there are places where you say you can do it when the right technology is there. Something is being built at the Søby Building yard at the moment, and I have to go over and see something on Monday with the elfærger and I think there's some future and some music in this thing with elfærger. However, let the market regulate it, because the day it is profitable for the municipalities to switch the old diesel ferries to elfærger, it will be a bad municipality or a bad ferry company that does not take advantage of the opportunity to have a more profitable ferry operation. There are a few small things in the remarks. It is pointed out that Siemens concludes that seven out of ten ferries would become more environmentally friendly. I guess it's 10 out of 10 if you switch to elfærger. But it may be that Siemens is another way of calculating it. It was just such a funny little thing I stumbled on. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we would also like to thank the SF for raising the debate, because it is very relevant and there is no doubt that in the future we will also see this technology. We're just not so much for maybe being an obstetrician or supporting a certain propellant with government money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150518	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150521	First of all, I would like to wish Mr Seligman well. Kim Christiansen a good trip to Ærø next week. It is incredibly interesting to see how important it is that you have an active private workplace in an area such as Ærø, which can otherwise find it difficult to get by in terms of scraping jobs for yourself. But here there could be an example of how, if we help to support a demand for a product in this situation, it could be precisely that Denmark comes to the forefront and helps create a lot of jobs, from engineers to blacksmiths, welders and unskilled workers, from the transport industry and to HK staff employed in the yards. I'd like to ask you, sir. Kim Christiansen about as trying to put that perspective in and not only say that the municipalities must decide it. For what is the market really? After all, the market is one that can be influenced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150608	I thank you for the wish for a good trip. I'm not going to Søby. I haven't been there too long. That's why I have the knowledge that you build an elfærge down there. And that is quite correct, as Mr. Karsten Hønge says that it is really an enterprising enterprise on one of our smaller islands, and that is good. However, it should not be operated through state resources either, because we may be subsidising some particular form of ferry, in which Søby Værft now specialises. No, I'm actually going to Elsinore to look at some elfærger. Because there I think it has a relevance and there, on the very short stretches that are up there, I think we can use the technology. But it's totally commercial. This is done without state money, and that is why I think it is a rather exciting project that you have going on up in Elsinore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150654	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150656	Then I'd like to ask Mr. Kim Christiansen about dealing with the other, this about there being a lot of people pretending that things are free. I mean, if it's just that it's strictly economical, I guess it's okay. But how do you actually measure the wear and tear that is on the earth by continuing to send out particles so that the population gets sick, that CO2 is sent, that is, there are other bottom lines than the narrowly municipal economics in relation to ferry operations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150728	Of course there is. When we see the global fleet of large tankers, etc., I do not think it is the 50 small ferries that sail in the Danish inland waters that move the environmental accounts. It is not the people who are causing Greenland to melt, I think. But of course: All cymbals small, and we must also be aware of the environment in Denmark. But we still have the conviction that we should not support an army of elfærger with tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150757	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150759	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm sorry if I've made a mistake before. The report from Siemens is about 52 ferries on our domestic routes today, and their report reports that seven out of ten ferries are more profitable as electric ferries. They have calculated it from the Norwegian ferry, i.e. the car ferry that has been installed, which is 100%. electric. But I really want to follow up on what my colleague from the SF says. I know that DF's rapporteur is very interested in Denmark strengthening our smart hands, smart heads in all professions. Is this not a good opportunity to get the development going, that we are at the forefront?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150900	I'm sure there's a lot of places you could drive something forward with state resources. However, there are some state aid rules that we must at least comply with. We would very much like to help drive smart heads forward in Denmark. That's why we have an education system where you can get an SU every month to take a free education. We are sacrificing large sums of money on innovation and research, so that is what we are doing. But we don't think it's gonna make any difference that we're going to start supporting with tax dollars, that we're going to have to sail elfærger in the Danish waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518150938	Thank you. However, the market is a variable size and the market is also operating under the conditions granted to the market. If the market is asked to adjust, that is what the market has to do. When I say market, it is municipalities, producers and investors. And then again: That we promote smart hands, smart heads in Denmark that we take a leading position here I think is worth fighting for. Does the rapporteur not agree with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151015	Denmark has a leading position in a great many areas, especially in the area of know-how, and we can also have that in the development of elfærger. But this is something that the market itself must drive forward, it is not something that we should impose from within the Parliamentary Assembly. I think the rapporteur said that companies should be asked to go for a particular technology. This reminds me of something in Eastern Europe many years ago, which we must say they did not succeed, so I do not think we should strive for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151050	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151050-2	It was sir. Kim Christiansen's remarks about Søby Værft, and the fact that you should not support a development I think that was said ■ with state funds. The aim of the proposal is not, of course, to provide the yard with operating resources; it is intended to bring about a development in the field of technology, in the field of ferry services, such as: Søby Building yard so can take care of. It is such a selective view that development on our islands should not be supported by state resources. That is, of course, what we are doing when we grant subsidies for the reduction of ferry tariffs. Then it is state funds because we want to promote settlements and tourism, etc. on our islands. When we relocate state jobs and spend 400 million. kr. It's not enough, we're spending 1 billion. kr. In fact, it is also state resources because we want a certain development. We have an island map system, and I could mention a great many different schemes, where it is state funds that we are using to try to have a certain development. The rapporteur himself has been in a conciliation circle on a former ferry pool, and it was also state funds because they wanted a better product.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151208	After all, the former ferry pool was socially justified. These were certain routes where it was said that it would simply be so crazy if the state did not go in. Then it would not be possible to settle on e.g. Bornholm, Samsø, Anholt, Læsø. That would be completely impossible. So that's where you go in and support, but it's something completely different. This is a different situation, I think, than going in as a whole and creating a state pool to support just exactly the elephants. Why not hydrogen ferries? hydrogen is also a technology that is on the way forward? You're very focused on electricity all the time. That is fine, and I think it will also play a role, but there are plenty of other technologies that we should then go in and support with state funds. And the Danish People's Party is simply not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151258	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151259	I think that when the SF proposes in the motion for a resolution that it is elfærger, it is because it is a technology which is now at hand and where, I believe, relatively modest means can be used to boost development, and at the same time it has the amazing side effects that it supports development with jobs around our outskirts, some of our most striking outskirts, namely our small islands, among other things. at the Søby Building yard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151331	I know is the only island that is produced ferries on, shown Ærø, namely at Søby Værft, and it is very good that they have the niche production. But I simply do not believe that a subsidy for elfærger should promote the development of the Danish islands in general. I believe that on the day that we are about to replace some of the small island ferries, and with the advantage of deploying elfærger, it requires that there is some economy in it, and then, of course, we will do so. And that is what I mean by this being the market itself, because I have no intention of spending state money on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151404	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151410	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to start by thanking the SF for putting forward the proposal here. This is the reason why we are once again taking a holm about greener transport, because that is something that is of concern to all of us, in other words to continue the green transition, including in transport. In the Left we have the approach that we are going in a green direction, but we should not lift the green tab higher than that the legs can reach the ground, and that is what sometimes pinches for the socialist parties, where there are major breaches of the principles of the market mechanism by wanting to promote certain things; some specific technologies are going to force with taxpayers' money, and then things go wrong, and then it gets very expensive. But I have no doubt about the good intentions, it is not at all that, but the problem is that one is so eager, so impatient to come in a green direction, and one would like Denmark not only to be ahead, but perhaps several kilometres ahead of all the others. But it's going to be expensive for the country, and this is also an example of that. There is no doubt that elfærger is a good idea, and I also predict them a good future, but I must state that buying ferries for the Danish islands is a municipal matter, because that is how we have arranged our division of tasks in the public sector, and that is why we should not sit here in the Folketing and interfere in things that are not our responsibility. This is the task of the municipalities, and I actually think that many municipalities are taking on the task; for example Samsø, who is in the process of implementing a gas ferry, and they have been innovative and visionary in that area. And we have to let that blossom elsewhere. Ærø is in the process of building his first electric ferry entirely of its own operation. Bravo, that's the way it's supposed to be, the hat off for it. But it's then the Ferry Secretariat is also very positive about developing this flexible ferry, a kind of hybrid ferry, which also has the opportunity to sail on electricity. I believe, both in cars and in ferries, that hybrid will have a major impact in the short and medium term before switching to clean electricity once batteries become even more efficient. So, yes, we are going in a green direction, but we also need a technology-neutral approach. I think it was sir. Roger Matthisen, who said that we have now had a debate on gender neutrality, and then I would like to turn to technology neutrality when it comes to green transport, because there is a wide range of technologies, and there are also ferries. Well, El's one of them, but there's also a hybrid that some people start with. We have LNG ferries, Liquified Natural Gas, which means liquefied natural gas. You can't speak English here, because it has to be the case that people can understand what we are saying and biogas could also be a very exciting propellant for some ferries. One could imagine some large biogas plants driven by manure, so we make grumpy manure green gold using the ferries in the future. There are plenty of technological possibilities that are bubbling out there, and that is why we should not, of course, lay down on a particular technology and then spend lots of tax dollars on it. Then there is something else that the socialist parties forget. I think they have forgotten to look at the principles of the market economy, because when you invest in something, it is usually a good idea to have a suitable depreciation period, otherwise it will be very expensive for society, and that is exactly what you are using violence against when you just say that now we have to push this through, now we have to have electric ferries, and then away with what had to sail now. So even if it was bought just 5 years ago, it just has to be sold out or sold to the highest bidder somewhere in the world. That is why it becomes so expensive when you force development and even adopt a certain technology. However, I am convinced that this is a well-intentioned proposal and I am grateful that we will have the debate again on green transport, because we agree that we must move in a green direction, but at a moderate pace. I am also convinced that just by 2030 we will see a lot of green ferries in Denmark to the islands, and those ferries will be very busy, because together we have helped to reduce fares precisely to strengthen business and tourism on the islands. So the green architects of the future will be busy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151846	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151849	Thank you. I heard Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says this wasn't our responsibility, because it's the municipalities that are running this. That's not true, is it? Yes, they operate the ferries, but has environmental policy suddenly been localized? I guess not. What I would ask the rapporteur to say is that it is not possible to reduce this to a matter of municipal accounting, because how is it possible to include the work on the earth? How is it that all the other costs associated with it are recognised? That is why it is, of course, a matter that we, as a state, must take a position on and make it attractive for municipalities to move in a particular direction in relation to ferry operations. I don't know from where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has the idea that ferries 5 years old should be replaced. What we are proposing is a phasing-in in an agreement with the municipalities, where you can see that when it is profitable, when it is appropriate, you do so in such a sequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518151942	I have just understood from the proposal that you want to spend a lot of money on consultants who are about to bury it here, and we already have plenty of consultancy fees in the state sector. No, what is the hops in this is, of course, that overall environmental policy is a national responsibility, and that is also why, at some point before too long, the government will come up with a plan on how to achieve the green targets by 2030, including in the area of transport, and, of course, transport will have to make its contribution, and then we will find the means. But what I welcome is the fact that the islands are in full swing. Several examples have already been mentioned of being in full swing. So we do not need to force developments in such a way, and I am sure that, as I said, the proposal is well-intentioned, but it also bears the hallmark of being a little impatient. One would like Denmark to be one kilometre ahead, and there we say others saw that we are satisfied that we are only in the front, because it is not as expensive as if one wants to be far ahead of everyone else and far ahead of the technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152039	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152041	I do not really see that it is necessarily SF that wants to force anything. No, it's the Earth that wants us to force something. It is the dramatic climate change that is forcing us to take some decisions that force development. That's what the context is. But I can listen to sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that this is especially the point of thinking that we should be more open to other technologies, and one might be afraid that it will be too short a time limit, so I would like to ask Mr Pihl Lorentzen. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen: If we are making a motion for a resolution that opens the door to the equivalence of other types of technologies when they are mature to be put into use and that we are making a longer phase-in period, is the Left willing to seize this huge chance both to do something for the environment and to create a lot of Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152127	I fully agree that, as I said, we need to move in a green direction, and I would like to have a wide range of technologies, and then best technology must win. This also applies to cars. As I said, however, we see that the municipalities are not waiting for this. They're going around, and why do we have to drive them and whip them off from state level when they're in full swing? That is why we must wait for the national strategy on how to introduce more green transport, and then we must see what action is needed. In relation to the one who constantly slaps people in the head with the earth coming to an end, I would say that it is not the earth that is at stake with these island ferries, especially when they are much greener than they were 50 years ago. I remember they sent black smoke up the chimney when I was a boy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152207	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152209	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur has just referred to my earlier comment on gender neutrality. Because the reason we focus on it is precisely because we want to be gender conscious. That is also where I really hope that all the parties will be environmentally conscious of what direction we are setting for our country. We can easily have debates on primary and secondary education reform and make sure that people are well and get some good education, but if they have no planet to take on that education and if we do not leave it in a proper condition, then it will not help. That's what we keep talking about. We are talking about the fact that we are facing environmental challenges that are so urgent that we need to make some conscious choices about what direction we are putting and pushing the country in. Here we have a motion for a resolution which does not say that we should sell a ferry, which is 2, 3 or 5 years old, but that we should put forward a strategy for these ferries. As soon as it's profitable and environmentally beneficial, then we'll get started. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is what is needed in the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152318	Then it is the rapporteur who has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152322	Well, I fully agree that we need a strategy in Denmark for how to displace fossil fuels, including for ferries, and for how to get in a green direction. But that's exactly why I think it's a break that you're just picking this tiny part out of the total transport picture and spending a lot of money to force some elfærger to some island municipalities that are basically in full swing. And in the municipalities that are not in the process, we are fully considering the matter. So it's like you're very impatient. I'm sure it's in the best sense. It is not in a fit of gluttonous evil that this proposal has been made. But it is as if one is so impatient that one does not allow the municipalities themselves to get over the ramp, as many of them want, as they have to replace their ferries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152404	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152406	I understand that and thank the rapporteur for her clarification. It's the whole discourse, after all, it's the whole conversation about whether it's us who are impatient or whether it's the planet that requires action. So it's not just because it's this one little element that we want to get in there and screw it on. After all, we would also like to see electric cars being exempt from duty and so on. The rapporteur once again calls for a long-term strategy and says that the government has one. Well, then let's look at all the elements of that strategy. This is really where we just hope you can see the sense of planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152444	We look forward very much to negotiating. That is to say, when we come up with a proposal to achieve the objectives which, among other things, include: I am very much looking forward to a debate on a wide range of instruments for how we can move in a green direction with transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152457	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152500	It's just to the rapporteur's question of why you're focusing on this tiny little part. Well, such a strategy for green conversion and displacement of fossil fuels obviously consists of a whole range of small elements, including transition to elfærger or hydrogen ferries for that matter. When the rapporteur calls for a strategy, one might ask: what is the government's strategy? Now you have helped to make an agreement on electric cars that will put the electric car sales at a standstill. Of course, it can also be part of a strategy. But it is as if you argue that Denmark is a small country, so it really doesn't matter what we do. No, it can't. We all have to make our contribution. We make our contribution according to the size we now have and with the influence that it then gives. At the same time, we are part of international agreements, the Paris Agreement and so on, which are precisely an attempt to spread it globally. But I am also calling for what is the government's strategy for fossil fuel displacement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152603	Now it sounds as if Denmark is the blackest black, but we have not been on the lazy side. Changing governments - both blue and red governments - have brought forward a green agenda. That is why we are at the forefront of Europe. I don't think anyone's going to dispute that. We must, of course, do the same when it comes to green transport. That's where we're going off the ramp. But we need to have a strategy on how the distribution is to be between housing, farmers and cars. It is the three bees that we are about to start, and we need to do it in a way that does not make our society poorer by the fact that we are going in a green direction, but that we are actually doing it in a way and at an appropriate pace, so that we get richer by it, among other things. Because some jobs can be created that will help produce these green solutions. So I really don't think we're so far apart. Perhaps the only thing that separates us is that the left is a little bit more impatient to get over the ramp with this, no matter what it costs taxpayers money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152656	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152657	It is precisely true that we have been driving forward a development. We have, of course, done this on the basis of political decisions which have been made by making demands, for example. the energy supply. But we have also supported it by means to make it attractive to make a green transition. The windmills are the very best example. There was also a terrible scepticism at first. Was it really something we had to support from the state? Today, we are glad that we have done so. We've created a business adventure. Then it is just that I ask: why should this not apply, for example? elfærger? At the same time, it has the excellent side effect of supporting development in our outskirts where the small yards are located.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152737	I think that will also apply to ferries and, as I said, municipalities are in full swing to buy green ferries. I would like to ask the question back: now the questioner cannot answer it but why not hydrogen ferries, biogas ferries, hybrid ferries; why not elf ferries? That is what I am most puzzled about with this proposal, which is why, unfortunately, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152756	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. And Mr. Henning Hylllested from Enhedslisten can answer, because that's sir. Henning Hyllested's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518152812	Well, then I can answer right away, because elfærger is one of the most clean of it all. Hydrogen ferries are not yet available and the technology is not fully in line with what has been achieved in the electricity sector. In fact, it will not be cleaner than elfærger, especially if they are charged via wind power. We think this proposal from the SF is a very good one. This will clearly mean an improvement in our climate and environment, and it is urgently needed. This has already emerged from the debate. It will also reduce the emissions of particles in our ports • the ports that are being called around the ferry, but also on the ferries, and this will benefit both passengers and staff on board the ferries. The proposal therefore contributes to the green transition, and it will help to put Denmark at the front precisely in the area of the development of electricity transport, in this case ferries. It will also be able to create hundreds of jobs, especially in smaller yards around our water edge area. Where else would it be? Søby Building yard is already mentioned as a very good example, and one could also mention the yard in Hvide Sande and others around. And like I said, if they get charged by windmill power, I don't think it's gonna be cleaner, and that's really good. And that is something that must be ensured around the ports. But it is also clear from the debate here that the green transition is in fact not so much in the mind of the government, of course, in words, but not in practical action. We have seen what I have also said about electric cars, where electric car sales have been completely stalled. I know that a patch solution has just been made, because it is and remains a patch solution that does not solve the problem, and we have seen the registration tax reduced for the most expensive, largest and most fuel-consuming cars. Well, it's the opposite of what you say you want to be a part of. It seems that the Minister obviously does not recognise that this is the time for me to be careful not to go into a strawman; I have had a discussion with the Minister's party colleague about the fact that the market sometimes needs help, or should we say that the market must be regulated if it is politically desirable for a particular development, and that it may not be recognised that it may be necessary to start a development, as we have seen with wind turbines, and as we have seen with opposite signs with electric cars. That is why we think the SF's proposal is quite sensible. In modern Danish, it seems to me that nudging is the nudging of a development which has such great advantages, which we at least believe, and which is also reflected in the motion for a resolution. So, you push the green switch, you push it to create jobs and growth at the water edge. That is the big plus word when you look at all the growth plans and listen to the debate, not least on the part of the government parties, about a Denmark in balance. So it creates a development and pushes a development at the water edge. In this case, it will also push the small corner that says that the development of a standard ferry for use on our domestic routes by the Ferry Secretariat will also benefit from this if you switch to electric ferries. So I think it is a pity that the Minister is so market-fixed that he cannot see that it may sometimes be necessary, or that in this area at least it is necessary, as it were, to try to push for development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153220	There are brief comments, and first it is Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153224	Thank you. The thing that just tripped me by Mr. Simpson... Henning Hyllested's rapporteur's speech was that Mr. Henning Hyllested pointed out that the sale of electric cars has now come to a halt because the state subsidy has been removed. You want me to understand that, sir? Henning Hyllested believes that it is a success criterion that in the whole of North Zealand people are so, what are we to say, better placed are equipped with a Tesla on behalf of other taxpayers? Is it a success criterion for Enhedslisten that all the rich can drive in a tax-free Tesla? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153302	No, and this has something to do with, first of all, whether we take the problem seriously, that this planet is going to have an ecological footprint in Denmark on a four or five globes. In fact, it takes a four or five globes to meet the consumption that the Danes have on all fronts in their daily lives. So this is about whether or not we want the green development, which is ultimately going to secure this planet. It currently consists of developing electric cars and making electric cars available to ordinary Danes as well. It also consists of developing elfærger. It consists of a wide range of things. We are far ahead, really in front, of having developed wind power etc., so that is primarily why. It is not for the sake of someone having to drive in one kind of car or the other kind of car, an expensive car or a cheap car. This is, first and foremost, the environmental objective that we must bear in mind when we talk about green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153407	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153408	But it's just this focus on electricity. I know it's a well-known technology, but so is hydrogen technology. The problem with hydrogen is that it may be a little more expensive to produce at the moment, but couldn't Enhedslisten help to use some of this wind turbine current that we give away at night and buy back expensively at other times? This could actually be used to make hydrogen, which could then become fuel cell for cars. I think that is a bit smarter technology, rather than just constantly thinking in larger and larger batteries or smaller batteries, if possible. However, developments have been quite limited in terms of the range of action on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153450	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153451	No, I do not agree with the latter. I think we have seen quite a nice development. But, by the way, I agree. It is not an either-or-and-so, and I think we should make a full start on the development of the entire hydrogen technology and use accurate wind power for that. It is extremely sensible to get some electrolysis going around and get some fuel cells etc. That's really, really sensible. So it's not a either or. I am just saying that battery technology is currently so far developed that it is useful both in cars and in ferries. And hydrogen technology will obviously also be useful in a relatively short period of time in relation to both cars and ferries. But then it has to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153529	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153532	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke a little about taxes on electric cars. One of the most important things in relation to elfærger is the operation, and there the Danish Parliament has made a broad agreement on the PRS tax. The rapporteur does not recognize that one of the most important things in promoting the operation of electric ferries is in fact to look at the structure of taxation, for example. Something like the removal of the PSP? Isn't this really the best way to promote this technology in relation to elfærger?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153604	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153605	It is clear that aid for the development of, for example, Elfers can have many faces, if I may say so. This proposal, which now comes from the SF, is a good and, in my opinion, well thought out proposal, which I perhaps think in the debate is a little more inflating than what it is. After all, it is a proposal for an analysis or an assessment of whether a change is financially responsible and whether to investigate and renegotiate existing contracts and such things. So, in this way, I think the proposal is good and that the direction in the proposal that can also be supported through state resources is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153650	Perhaps the rapporteur did not quite answer my question. For what I actually asked was, of course, whether the rapporteur does not recognise that, for example. is something like the abolition of the PRS tax, which really promotes this technology most effectively, i.e. the electrification of our transport network. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is, in fact, the structure of taxation on operations that has the most to say? Instead of getting a subsidy to buy a new ferry here and now it is much better to get a good and solid future operation, and that is exactly what we are getting with the abolition of the PSO tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153721	No, I certainly do not agree with that. I do not think it was a good idea to abolish the PSO tax, and the Enhedslisten was against it too, and that is of course because the PSO tax was exactly the one of our energy taxes that was used for the green transition. It was then removed on the basis of a view that there is a general growth in other companies, etc. etc., and in principle we do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153746	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153748	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested speaks a lot about green development, and I can vote in full. In any case, it is far preferable to red development. But I think it's a little weird that sir. Henning Hyllested like is jumped on to attach to a particular technology. For now the rapporteur himself is talking about hydrogen, and I think that is very exciting, for example. in train operation, and it could also be in ferry operation, and you could let the windmills spin at night and produce power. So why is it that you want to adopt a particular technology here? Why is it only elfærger who is the only blissful thing? The second question is that it is fair enough that some parties say that they want to take some support and then promote development. That is fair enough, especially if you point to where the money should come from, and I cannot see that here. But is it not some form of patronage towards the municipalities, which are responsible for the ferries and buy their own ferries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153841	One might actually want a red-green development. However, I do not think that it is because other technologies are also pushing, just as it should be an excuse for not necessarily supporting electricity. I have also said in the past that electricity technology is so much within reach. It has already started, and we see it most clearly in the whole electric car market. We see, for example. In Norway, too, if the state makes a determined effort to support this development, then it can actually get a volume in it too, and it is a volume that is needed to ensure that the market can cope with it itself along the way. That is now my view of the market economy. So I think there's a little bit in mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's question is that because there are other technologies, such as hydrogen etc., it becomes an excuse for not investing in electricity. But, as I said before, I fully agree that there are many technologies. But they must also be at hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153951	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518153952	Yeah, but it's just weird that you don't mention the other technologies that could also be relevant. As I know, both hydrogen and biogas are actually quite advanced, including in Danish companies, which are facing a brighter future in that market. But if you take the environmental aspect, there are particles mentioned in the debate, and that is where I think the red parties are messing up something. 'Cause we're all agreed on CO2 is sir. Henning Hyllested realizes that in Danish waters there are very strict requirements on which particles can come out of the chimney on ships?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154030	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154030-2	Yes, sir. Henning Hyllested is well aware of this, and I think that is very good, and we cannot criticise that. It should apply to all the seas around the world. For the large ships that also sail both in our waters and in the Baltic Sea, etc. etc., can easily make those scrubbers and other forms of cleaning technologies and use fuel that is less environmentally harmful than what they are doing. So that's okay, but I'm just saying that when that stuff with other technologies isn't mentioned... well, okay, then I'm gonna take it with mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154109	We'll do it that way. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Henning Hylllested. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154120	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, as we have heard, the SF will require the government to promote the use of elfærger. Not many weeks ago we had the same discussion on electric buses, and we have also heard that the discussion here has led to the debate on electric cars, in other words Teslaes. And when I mention it, it is because there is such a bit of déjà vu over these discussions we have on energy technologies. Some will do a great deal and will manage very much and will give the state a very powerful role, while others argue that it must be the best and the cheapest technology to enjoy the promotion on more market terms. That is actually what the whole discussion is about. It is not so much what objectives we have to achieve, but, of course, more to what extent we can agree on the means. Here we are in a situation where we have left it to the municipalities to take care of the choice of ferries. Then we, at least in the Liberal Alliance, find it incredibly difficult to see that it should be a sensible debate, that we should learn in here how to become the most environmentally friendly. I myself have been chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in my municipality for many years, and I heard before Mr. Karsten Hønge almost said that environmental policy is not being pursued in the municipalities and that it was something the state took care of. I should like to say that a great deal of time is spent discussing how to find the most green solutions in the municipalities. That is why I think it is a little absurd that we should spend so much time discussing this kind of thing in here, when we have a local democracy that takes care of it. And as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has mentioned many times, why on earth should you be more environmentally friendly in here than you are out there in the municipalities? One can say that it is out in the municipalities that one gets the usen in the head if one can express it that way. So the debate in here has become more such a cheerleader about who can demand the most, because then you are like the best person. Then you always pick one thing out, because there's always a hyped technology that's a little finer in this environmental discussion than others. Oh, you get so tired! It is the same groove that we drive over and over again in the energy debate: who will do the most? Who wants to spend the most money? Who wants to be more specific? This is also what we see now in the case of elfærger, which is going to transport us around between the Danish islands. There's not much new under the sun. What matters to us is that we should, of course, let these people make these kinds of decisions so that it fits into local conditions. The Minister also mentioned this. There may be a great many circumstances that determine whether it is wise or less wise to do something at a certain time. That is precisely what makes local self-government so diverse, namely that it is possible to do the most sensible thing and not just what may be more ideologically the most reasonable thing. We have confidence in local self-government; we have confidence in local ferry companies. We can see you're in full swing. That's what's so weird about this, because you're doing what you want to do more than that. I think the Socialist rapporteur also said: well, we are at the forefront in this area. What is the reason for the debate? Then they are doing very well out there, so let us now show them the confidence on the ground, and then I hope that for the 17th time we will not have an energy debate again in 14 days, when there will be a new thing that we will have to discuss as to who will most in a small specific area. Let those be the words. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154517	It's not quite finished yet. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154521	Thank you. I got really worried. Sir. Villum Christensen stood there and was on one side quite excited that we should even talk about it, and on the other hand, oh, so tired that we should now discuss it again. I would like to begin by regretting, but it seems that the rapporteur is also surviving this round. I believe that what we have to look at is the fact that we are trying to take responsibility away from the Liberal Alliance and to say that it is a local decision and, incidentally, it is just such a small thing. May I not ask the rapporteur to say that, firstly, a strategy consists of many small elements which together represent a serious effort towards the environment and, in this way, we cannot simply say that because it is such a small element, we do not have to deal with it. Making a national strategy on how to reduce emissions of CO2 or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154608	Now I have not dealt with the concept of national strategy at all. It's turned up. And no, we are not pushing away responsibility by putting things down; we are saying, on the other hand, that no, we are confident that you have as much between your ears out locally when it comes to finding environmentally sound solutions as you have here on this platform. That's the point of what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154629	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154630	Yes, but it is clear that it is a plan for how, in all areas of society, we are making an effort to ensure that we finally get a calculation that goes up, a calculation that, I believe, rises above the municipal level, as Mr. Villum Christensen is so interested in, but also a calculation that includes what the earth's worn out costs and how to figure out that kind of thing. That is why we need to have some national views on the direction in which we want to go. The reason why it is interesting to discuss precisely in the Danish Parliament is, of course, that, to say the least, we have a hand in the game, in that we provide substantial financial support for ferry operations. And then it is only fair, if we want to do so in a certain direction, that we support the demand for certain products which bring Denmark in a certain and more environmental direction, a direction that creates a lot of jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154714	I do not think we have much disagreement about the objective, but that is the means. We have just heard from the conservative side, I think it was that one of the most effective changes in ferry operations was in fact the abolition of the PSO tax because it gave a good operating economy. And that is certainly something that promotes things. After all, there are a lot of means to discuss, and we are just not where we think we have to pound people from in here to get in a certain direction. It is simply a fundamental difference between the red parties that they are so clever that they know exactly what direction we are going in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518154758	Thank you, President. What a good debate in connection with B 98, draft parliamentary resolution on the promotion of municipal ferries, which I clearly think we should give priority to having some more of when we talk climate in this hall. So I'm really sorry if you stand and think we have too many talking about climate here. With the situation we have on the planet today, can we have too many people talking about the climate? I do not think we can. Then it is true that it is about means and direction. That's right. In the alternative, we say: more society, less state. This does not mean that we must liberalise all the time. This means that we must have a direction in which we give priority to involving citizens and to ensuring that society fills what it needs, and preferably something more; that citizens become involved in our democratic processes; that we take our democratic authority to heart and develop our society actively with action based on what we want. That is what we are talking about here. Then there is talk of trust and that we are confident that the market will manage whether or not we convert to having elfærger. But that trust must also point back to us politicians. Citizens must be confident that sensible strategies are being adopted for our country, and one of the most sensible strategies we can choose in all our sectors is the green transition, and today we are talking about el ferries. So it seems to me that we are showing the citizens that, of course, we know that we have a clear direction. It is about thinking about the environment, we are thinking about the challenges we have and we are also helping to point in that direction by supporting a very fine proposal that I think has been put forward here by the SF. It is clear that we should not go into under-priority, that there are other technologies that are also fighting for the market right now. We have hydrogen ferries and biogas and perhaps also hydrogen, and it is worth remembering that they should not be under-priority. But we also know that in the transition to renewable energy, the green transition, we have electricity as the key element. From the report from Siemens we know that seven out of ten ferries are more profitable as electric ferries today. Electrification is a prerequisite for Denmark's green conversion. I don't think any of us disagree with that. With Denmark's increasing production of electricity from wind turbines, it is possible to achieve both significant economic and environmental gains. None of us disagree with that, but it requires us to make a decision to invest in electrification. This is where we seem to disagree. To what extent and to what extent should electrification be targeted? There I simply think we need to support a more visionary direction than the one we have seen so far, and there is SF's proposal a very good though small bet that points in a right direction. I don't want to read any more from the report. I would like to pass it on to the rapporteurs. But I have to say again that the argument that we are becoming poor by moving too quickly is simply based on a wrong premise. For we are poorer to die out on a planet where we simply, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, have had an ecological footprint that has trampled on ourselves. That's what makes us poorer. It may cost a little now and in the shorter term, but in the longer term we will save a lot of money, and we will have these smart heads and hands, as the rapporteur for the proposers also say, on the track in terms of converting to renewable energy and using the ferries here as a lever to generate revenue for Denmark and growth for Denmark. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155236	In the Radical Left, of course, we think that elfærger is a very good idea, which is why we can also welcome the fact that the Danish Parliament has abolished some taxes on two occasions, which has made it easier for both municipalities and others to invest in elfærger or other kinds of electric ships, etc. That is why we do not see much need for this resolution either. We have been in dialogue with Danske Rederier, who organises part of these ferry companies and of course also other companies, and they say that the economy of elfærger is actually very good, and most places where you have to buy a new ferry, you seriously look at elfærger alone because of the things we have already done from in here. It is also the case that according to the information I have received from Danske Rederier, and I have to admit that I have not checked whether they are correct.. we can discuss that in the committee procedure... it is the case that there are also some shipping routes where it does not make sense to have an electric ferry. That is, for example, the case. to Læsø, as far as I understand, because it is so long a stretch that an electric ferry cannot sail, simply. Then it will have to consist almost of a large battery, and there will also have to be some passengers and some cars. Against this background, I think it would be wrong to force all municipalities into some major bureaucratic system to investigate an electric ferry if it already happens, and there are simply some places where it does not make sense. I also know from the constituency that I represent in Skive that a ferry has been chosen for Fur, which sails on biodiesel, which is also a green approach. And then I think it would be a little weird to force them to spend a lot of money looking at a project with elfærger, when you have something else. There is also the proposal here that money should be set aside to enable the islands to buy electric ferries, and that is a pious wish. But there is no funding, so you have to take that in a different context if you want to set aside an amount so that the islands can buy new ferries of some kind. I have been an island rapporteur for many years enough to know that the islands would love that, but that is something to be found, and that is not what is being done here in the resolution. Overall, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we support elephants in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155519	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155523	Well, I'd like to hear about Mr. Simpson. Andreas Steenberg could explain this with that conversation, or whatever you've had, with Danske Rederier, who says you don't have to do anything because it happens by itself. What guarantee is there that this will actually happen on its own? What happens in a situation where electricity prices may rise if you do not have a phasing-in plan for electric ferries? What kind of blind faith is that, sir? Andreas Steenberg apparently has, both on market forces and at Danske Rederier? If so, what is the problem in adopting it if it supports a development such as Danske Rederier and Mr. Andreas Steenberg thinks happens anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155604	We can invite Danske Rederier or some of the island municipalities into the association of Danske Småøer and have it clarified in committee if Mr. Karsten Hønge wants it. However, as I understand it, the economy of elfærger is sensible, and that is why a number of municipalities are looking at it when they have to replace the ferries. For example: You just did it on Venø. Then I do not think there is any reason for the state to build up some sort of bureaucracy to check whether the municipalities do so, if the conditions and framework actually require it already. That is why I think that we can simply end up creating some sort of bureaucracy which costs some money, but which is not necessary if the market is still working.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155652	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155653	However, does the Radical Left not agree that, in this situation, an environmental strategy is so important that we have to phase out highly polluting diesel ferries that it should not depend on the daily prices of electricity? So it is a matter of simply laying down a plan for which ferries can be replaced when. There is, of course, the fact that, for example, the Læsøfærgen must sail so far that the battery will be so large that it does not belong under it. That's why it's just some of the ferries. The proposal here is to identify which ferries can be replaced to what extent. Could this not be an objective which the Radical Left could endorse?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155733	I think it's a good idea to make a strategy for getting elf ferries. That is why we have also helped to eliminate some taxes, because that is what has been the problem. The daily price of electricity is in Denmark incredibly low. So that's not the problem. It's finding the economy to acquire a new ferry. Well, you could set aside money for that. And then it has been that there have been high taxes on taking the power and using it on a ferry. So it's solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155759	Thank you to Andreas Steenberg. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518155811	I would like to start by thanking the SF for raising the debate. I think it has been a pleasure to follow the debate, incredibly exciting. The motion for a resolution we are debating is, as I have said, tabled by the SF and aims to impose requirements on small islands for ferries to be transferred to power and for a timetable to be drawn up for this. Let me start by making it clear: from the conservative side, of course, we have great sympathy for the proposal. When we joined the government, we managed to set ambitious climate targets for the government and thus for Denmark. We have an ambitious climate target, which states that 50%. of our energy consumption by 2030 must be renewable, and 100 per cent. of our energy consumption must be fossil-free by 2050. This is ambitious and we can indeed be proud of it. In order to achieve this objective, we will have to rethink the entire transformation of our transport sector, including, of course, ferry services. It is obvious to everyone, and here electric power will certainly play an important role. I myself was involved in the start-up phase of what was called Green Ferry Vision on Ærø, which is a vision group behind what later this year becomes the world's most powerful electric ferry when it is deployed from Søby on Ærø at the end of this year. It is a pioneer project supported by the EU with about 120 million. kr. It is a project that hopefully leads us to learn a lot more about electric ferry operation, so that the experience in the future can be used to support the conversion of power operations on several and perhaps even all Danish islands, but unfortunately we are not yet there. When the ferry is introduced, there is a two-year test phase, which is also supported by the EU, where we need to learn more about how electricity operates in practice, and hopefully it works smoothly. On Ærø, you are not a hundred percent dependent on Ellen, because we have three other ferries, so we have, as it were, a certain security of supply if there are, against expectation, some problems with charge or with battery or other electronics or, at the very least, other child diseases, which are often associated with pioneer projects. You don't have that luxury on many small islands. Here you are completely dependent on your one ferry. Often the ferry is operated by very few people, and their primary focus is to ensure ferry service between the islands and the mainland. We fully agree with the SF that the aim should be a CO2 that we have also committed ourselves to in relation to our climate objective, but I still think that we should start somewhere else. I do not think it is right to turn small islands into pioneer projects. On the other hand, the maritime growth team has just reported on these recommendations. There they have pointed to such a replacement ferry to the Danish small islands, such a standard ferry. I think that we should start by putting in place and then testing electric ferry operations on different islands without compromising security of supply. When we talk about electricity generation, I cannot fail to mention the importance of our tax structure. In fact, one of the things that promotes electricity operations mostly in relation to ferries is what we in the Danish Parliament have just agreed to abolish, the PRS tax. Therefore, one third of the cost of generating electricity is the PRS tax, so as soon as it is phased out, it will ensure incentives to invest in this. On the other hand, conventional ferries are actually duty-free. They have duty-free diesel, and so far there has been a tax on electricity. It is now being phased out, so it is actually a very big step in the right direction. This means a significant saving and, of course, increases the profitability of electricity generation, and I think that is a wise way to go. I think that this is the wise way to go where we instead create incentives that point in a green direction. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that we are of course in complete agreement with the objectives of the proposers. We agree with the goal. I also believe that we will end up there, but many small ferries to the small islands will have to wait for batteries to become more of a shelf. They cannot be pioneer projects. We cannot be on all Danish islands. I am sure that if, on the other hand, we make the right incentives, the municipalities and the Ferry Secretariat, which are working together widely among the municipalities, will probably find out when the time is right to switch to power, when it is worth reinvesting in an electric ferry. So my message must be that we must start by developing this replacement ferry that we have been talking about for years, and we can develop it for power operation, and then we can pick up experience and work on this. So, in these words, we cannot therefore support the resolution, despite the fact that we have a great deal of sympathy for its intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160257	This gave rise to one brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160301	I had the impression that the Conservatives are trying to brand themselves as the green conscience of the government. But I understand that it only lasts to the nice words, and of course I am happy enough for them too. But what does it take for the Conservatives to get through and say that it is not enough for us to say the right things, what Mr. Anders Johansson far along the way did, but that what is interesting for the environment is that we are getting something done about it? I think it is a little bit like you push it out that way, but it must come later, and it is too difficult today to ask the municipalities, which only have a ferry, to have it changed. This proposal is for us to have a plan for it; for us to check which ferries can be successfully replaced when. Could this not be an appropriate point where the green conscience of the government did not allow itself to be hounded by the other two parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160357	The plan that Mr. Karsten Hønge mentions, is the one that you sit on daily and work with all the time every day in the municipalities. You sit there every day and you think about where it's gonna be worthwhile to change. And then it is our job to ensure that incentives point in a green direction. That's what we're doing, among other things. ensure that the PRS tax is phased out. I mean, if somebody has some ideas about how we can phase it out faster, then I think we're also open to looking at it. I think the whole government is open to that. Because that is one of the things that can really promote the electrification of our transport network if we can phase out the PRS tax more quickly. So it could certainly be an idea to try to get this thing up and running. However, I am quite sure that you sit out in the municipalities every day and look at when it will be worthwhile to change our ferry operations. I am quite sure that if the incentives point in a green direction, then you also choose a green direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160439	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160443	But these are exactly the incentives that this is about. In other words, we are doing it for the sake of the environment, but we are also doing it in order to increase the demand for products to be placed on the market again for the sake of the environment. But the smart thing could be here if Denmark became the most competent country, the country that had the yards that were first became with new ways of constructing the ships, as has also been done at Søby Værft, where it is not only about having a battery on, but also that it has been constructed in a way that is more environmentally friendly, so there should not be so much water moved. In relation to the idea that we must support demand and get Denmark in the front line, there are plenty of jobs for Danes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160518	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160521	That is exactly what you are doing. In fact, the tax structure here has also been crucial, and it has really been very important for this project that we have just abolished the PSO tax and, incidentally, the electricity tax that used to be on electricity. It's actually one of the things that makes this the most important. Because if the electricity tax had not been abolished in the past and now following the PRS tax, it would not have been possible to do so at all, then it would not have been profitable to operate electricity at all. So I just think it is important to look at the fact that we are making some incentives that point in a green direction. And then I'm sure that you in the municipalities, just as you've done on Ærø, will probably find out when it's gonna be worth changing to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160552	There is just one more for a brief remark. Sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160556	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. An experimental zone... it's not so good to make our small islands into it. Did I understand the rapporteur correctly, so that is what the rapporteur said? Because what are we experimenting with right now? Right now we are experimenting with one, what should we say, expiration date for our climate and environment by continuing in the direction in which we are moving. So I would rather we start experimenting with something that in the electric car market has proved to be much, much more reliable and much more economically profitable than fossil cars. That's the first thing. The second is that the calculations are that elfærger has to replace between 300 and 1,000 ferries in Northern Europe alone, and this could potentially be 200,000 jobs. Why is it not Denmark that has to bid for this? Why is it not Denmark that should set the visionary direction for us to reposition ourselves and offer in with wise hands and heads compared to these 200,000 jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160713	There is a very large difference between the Danish islands; there is a very large difference between the Danish small islands; there is a great difference between the type of ferry that sails on which island. It is precisely for this reason that it is actually very wise that these decisions have been put out to local authorities where they have a local knowledge of it. And that is why I believe that we should be careful not to sit in here and dictate what date we think should be replaced by a ferry. Let me give you an example. Batteries are quite heavy compared to how much they protrude compared to conventional ferries, and there may be a place where for example. is very shallow and where you simply cannot carry so much goods because you have a heavy battery. Then there may be another place where there is a long distance and where you have some other challenges in relation to battery capacity. That is why I say that we must be careful not to force the islands to become pioneer projects or experiment with security of supply. And that is why I would rather start by looking at the replacement ferry, which the maritime growth team has also recommended, and which the FærgeSecretariat recommends, and which Danske Småøer recommends, so that you can get it done here during the periods of some standard ferries. I think that is a wise way to go to test power in the smaller islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160817	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160821	But I simply think that the rapporteur's premise is wrong. The rapporteur argues that there may be shallow water and that batteries weigh a lot and so on, but it is not the rear end that we put in order to build these ferries. After all, it is competent people who must make calculations in relation to geographical areas and so on. etc. What we are talking about is: what direction are we moving in? Will we support moving in this direction? Are we going to be the ones who bid and put us on these 200,000 jobs and on the switch to elfærger? So I hope that the rapporteur also expects and trusts that the people who are now going to build these ferries and make the calculations are, of course, competent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518160902	In fact, just some of the people I've been asking about this topic are saying it's a very technical subject... that this is a challenge for many Danish islands. So, if you think that a cruiser who sits in a small town, who may be operating a ferry where there are 5-10 employees, should try to implement this, then I just want to say that there are some challenges in it today. It is not certain that in 5 or 10 years' time, because developments are going very fast. But it is really dangerous to say that now we have to switch to this in the very small organisations, where they have more focus on security of supply and I understand that, because that is their most important task. As far as the green transition is concerned, our target is, as I said before, 50%. in 2030 and 100 per cent; in 2050. Well, that's pretty clear. Then we have to get there in a way and we have to get there in the most economically efficient way. And that is where we think it is more important to create incentives, for example. By removing the PRS tax, that is not part of the rapporteur's party. But that is one of the things that really promotes the use of electricity. In other words, one third of the costs involved in elfærgering have been eliminated by having the PRS tax reduced. So this is something that is really moving in this area. So it's about incentive structure, and then you have to make the local decisions out there yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518161009	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518161020	Thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs for having responded to the SF's proposals and for, I believe, contributing to a very exciting debate. The whole world is thirsty for a green transition, and Denmark must contribute wherever we can. I think that today's worst argument has been that Denmark is perhaps just a small country and ferry operation just a small area, because if everyone in the world argued in the same way, we would not move out of the place. I think that is a seriously irresponsible argument. The strategy for green conversion will consist of a number of different initiatives, and some of them will of course affect smaller areas such as this, which is about phasing out diesel-powered ferries to ferries powered by electricity. Every profession, institution and citizen must make every day an effort to ensure that the planet does not sweat itself to death. We all have to take responsibility. I feel a bit like we Danes think a little too often about ourselves, when it comes to the environment and climate. Unfortunately, the hard reality is that Denmark continues to be a force for over-exploitation on the planet. Diesel-powered vehicles and ferries contribute to both pollution by particles, emissions of CO2 When we have to recycle consumption, it is smart both to pull and push. The market can handle a lot, but not enough. Last year, the PRS tax was abolished and the electricity tax reduced. These are decisions that will help draw a green track through, among other things. transport sector. It has become more attractive for e.g. ferry companies to make the environmentally sound decisions, and fortunately we also see shipping companies and ferry companies investing in new ferries operated by electricity. Now it is not because SF is electric, but it is because it is a reliable technology. However, should it become apparent over the years that hydrogen or other forms of energy come within reach, we are, of course, equally open to them. In a short time the crossing between Helsingør and Helsingborg will be served by the world's largest electric ferry, and hybrid ferries have already been installed between Gedser-Rostock and Rødby-Puttgarten. At Ærø, the shipyard in Søby is currently building an entire clean electric ferry, as if six months on the route between Søby and Fynshav. It is going the right way, and the pulling effect with lower electricity prices will further help with development. Denmark must seize the opportunities that open up. When our shipyards are at the forefront of expertise and modern technology, there are plenty of jobs waiting for us. A report from Siemens from October 2016 showed that 39 small ferries on 30 different routes could successfully be replaced by electric ferries. And when we look at abroad, the prospects for exports are enormous. In fact, they also start to switch to electricity services on their ferry routes at some point. If we decide a national strategy for phasing out diesel-powered ferries and come first with electric ferries on most routes, Denmark will be seen as a great showroom for this environmentally friendly operation. We help the world get rid of some of the sweats and create jobs in Denmark for engineers, blacksmiths, unskilled and administrative workers in the yards. Some of the developments come naturally, especially after lower electricity prices, but there is no guarantee that all companies will make the environmentally sound decisions. A push effect would, as it were, bring us to port. With the government at the end of the table and with a national strategy, the signal will be precise, and therefore development needs to be supported by a policy involving public subsidies. If you decide to replace an old ferry with another diesel ferry, you have at the same time said no to public subsidies. It is in every possible way in society's interest to have the old polluting ferries scrapped and replaced with environmental ferries. That is why it is an effective way to push a development into supporting it economically. There is now nothing as charming as whip and carrot at the same time. Market forces can do a lot, but not everything. But the forces work quickly when demand is stimulated, and we can do this very precisely in ferry operations, because here the state plays a crucial role through massive financial subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518161533	It did not give rise to brief comments, so it must have been fully comprehensive and precise. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518161554	The debate is open and we are opening up with the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518161616	Thank you, sir. President. And thank you to Enhedslisten for focusing on an important topic. Protection of consumers against problematic chemistry is my priority. It is not acceptable that there may be hazardous chemistry in tattoo colours that are placed directly under the skin. When a tattoo is made, consumers should be able to expect that the colours used do not contain harmful substances. Tattoo colours must be safe for consumers, and I therefore agree with the intention of the motion for a resolution as a starting point. However, I believe that chemistry must be regulated in the European Union. This also applies to harmful chemistry in tattoo colours, because EU regulation provides the best and widest protection for consumers as well as for businesses. Chemistry crosses borders. The tattoo colour used in Denmark is often produced outside the borders of Denmark, often also completely outside the borders of the EU. So it is important that we stand together in the European Union and set a high standard for safe chemistry. As is known, we have been focusing on tattoo colours for a longer period of time. Under the former government in 2013, attempts were made to introduce national rules for tattooing colours. In this context, Denmark received a detailed opinion from the European Commission that the restriction of chemical substances can only be adopted by following the procedure laid down in EU chemicals legislation referred to as REACH. Therefore, Denmark has taken an active part in the work on drawing up rules under REACH. That work is well under way. The EU's rules on general product safety already mean that, among other things, there is a need to ensure that there is a high level of consumer protection. tattoo colours shall not constitute a risk. However, it is a challenge that there are no specific limits for the specific substances, so that you can make sure that the colours do not pose a risk. With common EU rules under REACH, we will have a specific regulation on which chemical substances may be used for tattoos and permanent makeup. This makes it possible to be sure that the colours do not pose a risk. In order to support good regulation in the European Union as soon as possible, last November I launched a national strategy for tattooing colours. The key measures in the strategy are Denmark's contribution to the future EU rules, but we should not sit on our hands while EU rules are being drafted, and we are therefore undertaking a national information campaign to the tattooists so that they can be at the forefront of future regulation. Denmark supports the development of EU rules on harmful substances in tattoo colours together with the EU Chemicals Agency ECHA, Norway, Germany and Italy. Denmark actively contributes to the work, especially concerning allergens, because our Knowledge Centre for Allergy has a special expertise. An ambitious regulation is being drawn up covering a wide range of problematic substances. The proposal from the working group must be completed by July 2017, i.e. in a very short time. It will then have to be dealt with in the ECHA committees before it is sent to the Commission. I expect the Commission to then send a proposal for a vote to the REACH Committee among the EU Member States. Of course, we must await the outcome of the comprehensive and ambitious work. It takes both time to assess the many substances and it takes time for the ECHA committees to assess the consequences of the proposal. I believe that this is the best approach to getting the harmful chemistry out of the tattoo colours, and it makes sense to wait for a regulation to be implemented that gives the Danes and all EU citizens the best possible protection • a protection that should apply both in Aalborg and when you get a tattoo on a journey in, for example. Spain. As mentioned, most tattoo colors come from outside Denmark. It will therefore be a difficult task for the tattooists to make sure that the colours they buy meet special Danish requirements. A common EU regulation puts pressure on countries outside the EU that want to market tattoo colours in the Community. Common rules will generally help to create greater security for all Danes who want a tattoo, while making it easier for tattooists to buy safe colours. The entire REACH process is expected to result in a proposal that can be adopted around September 2019 and enter into force by 2021. Until EU regulation is in place, work is being done in parallel with national measures. In addition to the work of ECHA on EU rules, the government's tattoo strategy, as mentioned, also includes an information effort targeted at the main players, namely the tattooists. This is done through a dialogue forum providing information to the tattooists on how to make sure that the colours they use do not contain substances of concern. In this connection, the website has also been relaunched for the benefit of manufacturers, importers, sellers and users of tattoo colors in Denmark. The page contains recommendations for safe tattoo colors. In addition, as a consumer, you can find good advice on tattoos on the website thinkbeforeyouink.dk, which is established as part of an information campaign in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. The website also provides information on the risks associated with home settings. I am very concerned that we are dealing with the issues relating to harmful tattoo colours. Problem chemistry must be removed from the tattoo colours, and this must be done through common EU rules. Chemistry crosses borders and therefore the tattoo colours must be regulated under the auspices of the EU. It provides the best consumer protection and provides the best competitive conditions for the tattooists. The Danes must be able to be tattooed safely, whether in Denmark or elsewhere in the EU. I hope for the support of the Danish Parliament as a whole for our work in getting ambitious EU regulation, while at the same time working in Denmark with the implementation of our national tattoo strategy, which contains targeted and sought-after information as well as dialogue with the industry. We are doing a great deal and therefore the motion for a resolution is rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162213	Thank you, Minister. For the time being, there is one brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162218	I fully agree with the Minister that chemistry is cross-border, but I would not recommend that we wait for legislation in Denmark until we have Vietnam or Thailand or Burma or some country where people can go and get tattooed. That's absurd. People can be tattooed in Spain, and people can be tattooed in Burma, that's right, but that's not what we're talking about. What we are talking about is people being tattooed in Denmark, and there are a lot of people doing that and they are getting a poison in them. And why do they do that? Yeah, that's a little weird. The minister spent a lot of time on crossing borders, etc. Can the Minister not just confirm here in the first place that in Sweden the rules proposed by Enhedslisten should actually apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162313	I am not aware of the Swedish rules, but if the rapporteur says so, I certainly should not say that the rapporteur speaks untruely. However, I can send a written message to the rapporteur with any confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162329	The Minister has done so in the past, because the reality is that it is pure bureaucracy that makes us unable to do it in Denmark. There are a number of EU countries that already have stronger rules, but this has something to do with when they were introduced. And Denmark introduced them too late after REACH had fully entered into force, with the result that then we could not implement them. Had we always had them, or had we had them much earlier, we would have been able to introduce them. That's what the Swedes did. That is why it is purely technicality and bureaucracy that does so. And those who are going to pay the price for it are the thousands of people in Denmark who believe that Denmark is not a banana republic, go in and get tattooed somewhere and then discover that what they have injected is something that is toxic. If it turns out that Sweden has stricter rules than Denmark, can we not agree that we should then have the same rules as Sweden, which is also an EU country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162430	I can confirm that Denmark is not a banana republic. I can confirm that. And I can also confirm that we have an active information effort and dialogue with the entire tattoo industry in Denmark to ensure that they do not use harmful substances.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162443	Then we can thank the Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162501	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to say that we share the intentions behind this motion for a resolution, which Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten have submitted. No one has any desire or interest whatsoever for people who choose to be tattooed to have poisons injected into their arms and become ill with it, whether it be with boils or something else. This is really the discussion about how best to do it, how best to regulate the area, how to also regulate the tattoo industry, which is one of the areas and one of the industries which is largely not regulated very much, even at home. There are not very good labelling schemes and there is not very good regulation at all and so on. I would like to begin by saying that the debate of course impresses me and that this also applies to the question, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard asks the minister about the Swedish regulation. In addition, we are extremely interested in making rules that apply to all the Member States of the European Union, because in this way we believe that the protection of both the individual Danes, but also the individual EU citizens, will be the best possible. That is why we have also decided to be critical of whether this motion for a resolution is the right way to go, but perhaps instead we should be making a report in which we are forcing the government to actively work on these chemicals, etc. is changed in REACH. At least that is the approach of the Social Democratic Party to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162645	Thank you to the rapporteur. We keep the line, and there is one brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162651	Thank you. Yes, yes, but we would also like to help ensure that the EU changes the rules in 2025 or 2032 or 2078, our support should not be lacking in that, because we would like to take part in that. The interesting question is, of course, what we are doing to all those who are injured until then. And there I didn't really hear the answer from the Social Democratic Party. But now that the EU track is so important, I would like to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen what was the real reason why the previous government made an announcement that only concerned Denmark? Why would they do that? Was Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt not interested in the EU track? What was the reason for drawing up a report which was fully ready to be put into effect by the previous government? I guess there must have been a reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162741	This is fantastic in many ways, because we both know very well what is at the heart of this discussion, but yet Mr. Søren Søndergaard gets up. What is at the heart is that the government of that time made an announcement on the basis of exactly the same intentions that I also expressed, namely to protect consumers from spraying toxic chemicals in their arms or where they now choose to get a tattoo. I come from Amager, and a lot of people get it on their backs out there. Sir. Søren Søndergaard also knows very well that the EU will then open up an infringement case, and then you will take stock of it. Then the question is: what does Denmark do in this regard? Then we do it that we are actively trying to work to change REACH so that we have a common regulation across the European Union, and that is also what is currently our approach to this issue. But as I started by saying in my introduction, I am actually interested in hearing what the Ministry's answer is to the question that Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked for the Swedish regulation. Because we find that interesting, and it is also interesting. That is why we are proposing to produce a report in which we require the government to actively work for these changes as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162846	The questioner's upset himself with one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162851	First, I can guarantee you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for not seeing me excited yet, because it looks quite different. Then I will add that this is a confession matter. After all, it is not for the sake of toxins that the Social Democracy has changed its line from 2013 until now. It is not for the sake of the tattooists who are cursed by what they may be able to do to people, it is not for them; it is not for the sake of health in Denmark that the Social Democracy has changed its attitude. It is for the sake of the European Union. It is for the sake of the European Union that a change of attitude has taken place. And I must admit that I find that a pity, but I am delighted that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will investigate whether we can have a model such as that of Sweden, even if the EU will probably try to oppose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518162941	I know that the government of that time has not been dishonest about the fact that an infringement of the Treaty had been opened or, at least, has been announced that there could be a breach of the Treaty. That's the way it is. On the other hand, as in the case of the environment, when we discuss consumer issues, when we discuss a wide range of different areas, it is always a discussion about how fast we have to run in Denmark to get the rest and what is really best in the long run. This is the general discussion all the time, and that, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I have discussed many times is that over the past many decades we have managed to raise standards throughout Europe. This also means that when Danes go to Germany or go to Spain and are tattooed in the middle of a fireer on a holiday or whatever you choose to do, you also enjoy the same kind of protection. In addition, we also welcome the initiative of the government, which I think was already started under the then government, by trying to ensure that the tattooists who buy their ink are actually aware of what is good and what is bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is next in line, and that is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163051	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we do not support the proposal. We didn't do that back in 2013, when we were doing this with a voluntary registration because we wanted to have a mandatory registration of tattooists. If we do not support the proposal, it is not, in fact, because we are not concerned about the tattoo color that is, but because, if the announcement made back in March 2013 is implemented, it will actually be impossible to be a tattooist in Denmark, and we are not prepared to do so, because in fact we simply believe that Danes will go to Germany or elsewhere to be tattooed. What we have a position on is that we would like all tattooists to be registered on a compulsory basis. We have discussed this many years ago with the then government, and it can be said that the government or changing governments have also been a little slow in that we have had an agreement that something should be done in this area. I understand that in the next session something will happen in relation to registration, but also that during the past period there has actually been a very good collaboration with the tattooists who are in Denmark and those who are prepared to do something about hygiene as well. So you've had hygiene courses, which is really, really important. That is why I was very annoyed that on Facebook yesterday there was a former minister who was tattooed at home on his kitchen table. Now I do not want to mention names, but I simply do not think it is right that we should do this because hygiene is so important and it is so important that we do it properly. As I have also understood, when I have spoken to tattooists, it is not possible to buy ink produced in Denmark, it is bought abroad, where there are some large ink producers who make it here. It is, of course, important that what is being used for tattooing is also in order in terms of health, but where things go wrong is often in connection with poor hygiene that is my clear impression. That is why I think it is very good to have this cooperation with the health authorities, so that, of course, we get as little damage as possible. At first glance, I don't have much more to say than one thing. It is therefore entirely voluntary for people to put themselves under such a needle, I would say. That is not to say that you have to take a great risk with it. We must, of course, ensure that these colors are as safe as possible, but just as well as it is voluntary to color hair, it is also voluntary to get a tattoo, and sometimes things go wrong. After all, I hope to have a compulsory registration of tattooists and that we can work to ensure that the ink is of course as safe as possible so that we avoid as much damage as possible. I don't know if I believe in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163422	Thank you. Then there is one brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163427	Why should it prevent people from being tattooists in Denmark that there is an import ban on tattoo color ink containing toxins?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163439	As I understand it, you can't get tattoo colors that are completely free of toxins. Maybe I'm the one who's uninformed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163452	Well, we can just start by introducing the rules that you have in Sweden and Germany. It's a good place to get tattooed. Will the Danish People's Party be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163502	If you can get colors that are poison-free, then I think that would be the best thing to do. But I would like to say that I think what is most important is that you get good hygiene and that you have a record of the tattooists. That's what's most important to us. Then there is the colour to be used, and if you have a registration, it is of course also on the assumption that you have some hygiene courses and that some proper ink is used and, of course, like ink that is toxic-free.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163530	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur of the Liberal Group is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518163538	Thank you. The fact of being decorated in different places on the body with colors and patterns is not a new invention, and studies show that it has become so popular that in 2013 it was about 15%. of the Danish population who had one or more tattoos. If we look at the assembly here, where we are approx. 20 people present, then I can figure out that three of us are tattooed, and I'm not one of them. Nevertheless, it is a really important subject that Enhedslisten is debating, because there are certainly a lot of people who have some understanding that when you go to a tattoo artist in a country like Denmark or another European country for that matter, things are under control. Then it is risk-free, and then there are some who have agreed to the chemicals used in the tattoo ink used by the tattoo operator. That is not enough, and that is why the issue must be addressed. We are quite in agreement with the Enhedslisten in this respect. The question then is which forum is the best place to take these actions in. We are therefore living in a Europe in which we as citizens are travelling, and this in which we are being tattooed, for example. In fact, during a summer holiday, something is quite common. Tattooers can also move and open a store in another country, but the most important thing is that the ink used as a tattoo artist should cross national borders. That is why it is limited what we can do alone as a country. We do not produce tattoo ink in Denmark to any significant extent, so the ink we get comes from other EU countries or from countries outside the EU. If we are to have the opportunity to regulate with a certain degree of force, then it is the European Union that is the effective means, in the same way as we saw it with cosmetics. There are also EU rules that have changed in the cosmetics used by some. I'm not there either, I can say. So because these are the conditions, that is the world in which we live, it does not really make sense to go in in isolation from the Danish side and regulate. On the other hand, it makes really good sense to regulate together. I also feel that the rules that I would like to have apply to Danes should also be of benefit and benefit to them in Sweden, Germany and France. This is something we call international solidarity in our party. So the best and widest consumer protection will be achieved when we ensure common good, high standards across all EU countries. After all, the previous government tried with isolated Danish rules, but it must also learn that European standardisation sets a framework for what we can do legally at national level. After all, Denmark has been told by the Commission that Member States which want to introduce a restriction on substances in the ink must follow the procedure under the REACH regulation. So if we did what Enhedslisten is proposing, it would be contrary to EU law. So the most constructive way to continue working on what we agree to achieve is to have EU rules in this area. It's a job that's in progress. Denmark is active. We are pushing from the Danish side, and I think that is the right way to go. The solution is not Danish special rules. They would be very easy to deal with by the tattooists, it would be a false security for the customers, and that would have little effect. So for that reason we cannot recommend adopting the resolution. I would also like to endorse what the Danish People's Party said, namely that we have received a request from professionally independent tattooists saying that their relationship would be made virtually impossible and that a grey area would be created which would not benefit tattooists or customers. So for that reason we cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164028	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164033	What is just strange about this discussion is that we get those usual ideological lectures that contain two elements: that it is a cross-border problem and that the solution must therefore be at EU level and a cadeau for the rapporteur to just mention Russia in the same breath, because Russia is not in the European Union, at least yet, and then the ideological attitude that says that we cannot do anything, that we must not do anything. When I think it is strange that we are having that discussion now, it is because you have those rules in Sweden and Germany. So, what is the reason why one can have rules in Sweden and Germany that we cannot have in Denmark? Since the rules are sharper, stronger and the Ministry of the Environment has confirmed this in the answer to Enhedslisten in Germany and Sweden, what is the reason why we should not have stronger rules with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164136	Well, I haven't mentioned Russia. I looked down, too, and the head was shaken. I haven't said anything about Russia, so I don't know where it comes from. And I fully understand that Russia is not a member of the European Union. With regard to some countries having rules, it is because they have adopted the rules before the regulation came into force, so that is it. I think so too, sir. Søren Søndergaard knows.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164200	Yeah, I know. But what is the reason why we should not have the same rules? I mean, it's for the sake of some EU technology. It is not for the sake of consumers or tattooists or anything. In Sweden you can have tighter rules and you can have tattoo shops, and Swedes are also tattooed to a large extent. The same applies in Germany. It is therefore possible to have stricter rules and yet to have tattoo companies. If we do not then have it in Denmark, then it is neither for the sake of the tattoo company nor for that matter those who are being tattooed, so it is solely for the sake of accepting something in the EU, some EU technology. Is it really the case that the Left believes that EU technology is more important than citizens' health?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164254	I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard has ever thought that this, which he calls EU technology, could have a purpose. I mean, it's just such a thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164306	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We're gonna move on, and that's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164317	First of all, thank you to the Minister for the Environment and Food for updating us on the status of the action against dangerous chemistry in tattoo ink and then you are almost tempted to say that now we have all got that topic a little more under our skin. This is, of course, the result of a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, and I would also like to thank you very much for it. We all know horror examples of tattoos that have gone wrong. It looks both terrible and must feel terrible. I have not tried it myself, nor am I one of the three people present in the Chamber who must be statistically tattooed. However, the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of bans. The Folketing shall make regulations where appropriate and necessary to protect the consumer in the best possible way. But the consumer also has a responsibility. And especially when, as in this case, people choose to put dyes under their skin, they deliberately expose themselves to a risk and should therefore also be a little extra vigilant and watchful of who they choose to get to perform such a procedure. A national ban would probably only hamper the nice part of the industry and instead promote tattoo tourism for example. other EU countries without a ban. And that is why I, too, from Parliament's platform, would urge the industry to take initiatives to clear up any stray vessels. Finally, I would like to say that in this case, as with everything else relating to chemistry, the best consumer protection is achieved through EU regulation, and therefore again many thanks to the Minister for updating Denmark's efforts within the EU to promote regulation. That line supports the Liberal Alliance, and that is why we do not support B 107 either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164527	But it did give rise to a question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164531	Yeah, 'cause I kind of want to understand the logic. So, what is it that if we in Denmark forbid the placing of toxic substances in tattoo ink, so that it cannot be imported into Denmark, then people should say: Then I will certainly go to a country and be tattooed, where I risk that there is cleaning fluid, or what the hell do I know: what do I know in this ink? Well, I don't understand. Can we not think the idea to end, namely what it is that should make people say: It is safe to be tattooed in Denmark; the risk is at least more limited than it was before; I do not inject anything that is outright toxic, and therefore I rush to go to a country where there is no regulation at all and where it is toxic? Can't we have that logic developed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164628	Sir. Søren Søndergaard wants to correct himself. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164634	If you make it difficult for the tattoo industry in Denmark, you also make it relatively more advantageous to be a tattooist in another country, which is why everything else will be better able to be tattooed in another country. But one could then hope that there could also be a positive tattoo tourism, I would call it, and that Danes could go to Sweden and Germany, as the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, at least as I hear it, believes has a tighter regulation than we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164711	I still don't understand the whole logic. So, what is it that should make people go to another country where the risk of getting poison injected is great if they can do so in Denmark where there is no risk? Well, what's the idea? I simply do not understand the logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164733	No, I understand that the rapporteur for the proposers is having some difficulty with that logic, but it may have something to do with the rapporteur's ideological position in the political spectrum. I think I might invite the rapporteur to an ideological session on market mechanisms and such things. So at a later stage, we might be able to clear it up that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164800	I think that the exchange of views was enough, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164807	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. There is no doubt that this tattoo ink can be really dangerous - it can be both cancer and allergenic. That is why, of course, action must be taken. The question is, How do we do it best? How are we gonna change this so we're gonna make a proper announcement banning these toxins in the tattoo ink? We have waited a few years to say that we have worked through REACH. It is always sensible to come up with common solutions. I do not think there is any disagreement about that either, because that is how we are most powerful. But sometimes you also have to look at: Is it going too slowly, does it need something more? And that is why we think this proposal is quite sensible and we support it because we believe that it can help push the whole work of the European Union to get this done. Sometimes, then, we have to be careful that we are not always so afraid of whether we are now the allegularest student in the class, and do not dare to go against anything when writing comes from the European Union, where there may be a perception that it is contrary to the Treaty. Sometimes we have to say, well, this is important to us, we believe that. And then we have to do it. Because I actually believe that even if it were to be contrary to the Treaty, just the fact that we are doing so can help push for action in this area. At the same time, I would also like to sign up to the Social Democrat rapporteur, who is talking about a joint report, so that this could also be the way if there were not a majority in favour of this proposal, and I think that the committee should consider that clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164950	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518164957	Thank you very much. And yes, I know there's a little wondering which one of us is sitting here with a tattoo. I can tell you it's not me either. But I know a lot about it because I've actually had a nanny who's probably one of the most tattooed people in this country, and it's just so beautiful on her. So I've actually been following the discussion about tattoos a lot. I know it's the whole industry's concern to clean things up and clean things up. I know that there is a need for a market where there are simply some better colours. In my time as Minister, when I went in and made the proposal that Mr. Søren Søndergaard today lays out and wants us to adopt, because I thought it was actually possible to live up to the decision that had been taken here in the Folketing to get away some of the worst colors. And that's why we made this announcement, but we ended up not issuing it because we were told very clearly that it would be directly illegal in relation to rules and agreements that we had made ourselves. Then, of course, one can always consider whether to make some sort of civil disobedience to chemicals, and Denmark has done so before, where we have helped push things forward. We have among other things. made it with chromium in leather, and we've done it with bisphenol A and other things. But I think it is very important if you want to move these things, that you also listen to those who sit and negotiate it into the systems, in relation to what moves the most. In fact, I think it is really, really important because we have talented people who sit far, far inside the Commission and know what is happening in the field of chemicals. So if we want to have effects out in the real world, it is important that we listen to whether they say in relation to a given area that this is where we have to go alone, or whether that is where we can actually push things through through the beaten path. We've got so many shots in the gay. I'm not saying that this is the last time Denmark has gone alone, but my assessment was that this wasn't the area. And, of course, it is a little bit about process, but it is ultimately for me about the results out there in the real world. It's about people being tattooed with colors that can do really great damage to them. So if you are concerned about the environment, about chemistry, you should not turn this into a discussion for or against the European Union, as it sometimes seems a little like it is. Then you have to talk about how to get through the most effective with this ban on tattoo colors. And there is my assessment that in the process that is going on in the European Union now, when it is actually running in many areas, Denmark can play a much better role by being at the table and moving things, rather than being those who stand outside and make civil disobedience. And that is simply a political assessment. I know that Enhedslisten usually thinks that they get the most through by standing outside shouting and screaming, but in the Radical Left we like to share in trying to decide things. In fact, in our time in government, we have spent a great deal of money sending officials down and doing chemical work in the European Union, and that is part of what the Minister has also chosen to continue. So yes, I share the intention behind the proposal. It's kind of an announcement I wrote myself. But the reason why I cannot support the motion for a resolution is that I believe that if we want to achieve what the motion for a resolution would like to do, we must go the wrong way in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518165302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see neither the SF nor the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber. In other words, we have actually arrived at the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518165325	I'm not tattooed either, but I'm not going to prove it at least not into the last detail. I think this discussion is really a very fundamental one. As we have said, in March 2013 we received this draft announcement, which Mrs Ida Auken contributed to, and thanks for it, and it was due to enter into force in 2014. And just to repeat it, for it sounded as if there were some who had not just seen what it was all about: it was a ban on toxic substances in tattoo ink, it was a requirement for security clearance, and it was a ban on the import, sale and use of harmful tattoo colors. That's what it contained. I hear here too that everyone agrees on this because it affects a great many people. A figure of 15% was mentioned. is tattooed. I believe that the latest figure says that it is 20%, and that figure is only increasing, because among the young people there are more people being tattooed, and since we are, after all, some over the first youth, that figure just keeps rising and rising. That is why it is a major problem. Many people, as was also mentioned, have genes and, as a doctor said recently, it is in many ways a ticking poison bomb, because it is also something that can cause problems at a later stage. After all, we agree on all this, and then the question arises as to what we do about it. Why didn't we do this? It's because we were too late. After all, it is the case that a number of countries have implemented it. This is the case in Sweden, that is the case in Germany, and this is the case in the Netherlands, as far as I remember. I believe that there are six to seven countries that have implemented these rules. So all the arguments that have been used against this proposal, assuming that people can go to another country or that the tattoo industry goes downstairs and home, do not hold up in the real world, because there are countries that are living dementies of it. The only thing that holds is what Mrs Ida Auken and also Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned that it takes a confrontation with the European Union to get this through. It is therefore a technical matter for the European Union. It is true that we believe that the EU system must be challenged. We have a fundamental criticism of and fundamental opposition to the European Union. We have no problem at all in saying that. However, we say that even when there is a desire to make the European Union better, even when there is a desire to get things through within the European Union, it requires a willingness to challenge the system. That's where I think it's, like, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist said was quite right. As Mrs Ida Auken also mentioned, we have done so before. We did it with bisphenol A, which led to that idea of putting poison in babysitters stopped. Several countries challenged the Commission. I would say that my assessment is • we may have different assessments of it • that when we have a situation in which a large number of EU countries and, after all, also relatively large EU countries, among others. Germany, have these rules, by implementing the same rules will put speed on the process. I definitely think so. However, we can have different assessments of this, and I fully recognise that Mrs Ida Auken's assessment can be as good as mine. But the question which then arises, and which everyone has to deal with, is: how long do we have to wait? If Mrs Ida Auken is right, we have a date. It has already gone a little further than the answers we received from the Ministry in December, because there I think it was 3 years or something, but now we are at 2021. But what if it's not 2021? What if it is in 2025 or 2027 or even further in the future? How long do we have to keep waiting? Now Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen the opportunity to make a report, and you can always do so, but part of such a report and for that matter part of a new revised proposal is that we set a time frame for it. After all, we can agree that if it is the Ministry's assessment of course on the basis of promises and conversations in the EU system that on 1 January 2021 the rules we are outlining here have entered into force, then we will adopt them with an entry into force on 1 January 2021. It does not prevent anything in the European Union, but offers it every opportunity, and then it also sends out a clear signal that if it does not, it cannot continue to run forever, as it has done in a number of other areas. Let's just take social dumping, which is what I know the most about, because I've worked most on it. Since the Vaxholm judgment, at least in the last ten years, social dumping has been an obvious problem. After all, we all have to ask ourselves: What are we most loyal to? Are we most loyal to some EU technicalities or to the health of our citizens? We can have different assessments of what we think is most important. But perhaps we could still meet somewhere and say: okay, we set a time frame and thus put speed on the process. At any rate, it is a proposal on how we can move forward and respect both the negotiating track mentioned by Mrs Ida Auken, while at the same time not letting things drag on indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170001	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170008	Sir. Søren Søndergaard continues to call REACH EU technicalities. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, if he can mention me one chemical regulation system anywhere in the world, just one place in the world where there is better chemicals legislation than REACH.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170023	No, it is a misunderstanding that I should have called REACH a technicality. What is a technicality is the fact that some rules that apply in a number of EU countries and that were not implemented on a certain date cannot also be implemented in other EU countries. That's what was a technicality. It was the date that was a technicality. As far as REACH is concerned, it is absolutely right that this is the best we have. Down in the European Parliament I had such a poster from Greenpeace hanging where José Manuel Barroso and Günter Verheugen were feeding a baby with all kinds of toxins. After all, it was a very precise criticism that Greenpeace had of REACH. Because it was 30,000 toxins that we started with to be regulated, and where did it end up? It ended with 3,000 and something. In other words, it was not at all the much progress that was desired, but it was a step forward, and we must certainly defend it, and we must certainly go further. But should we also accept a technicality that means that some EU countries can have a better standard than others because they have implemented it by a certain date? I think that is a technicality, and I think we should point that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170137	I will definitely go home today and put a cross in the calendar, because I've got mr. Søren Søndergaard to admit that EU chemicals legislation, REACH, is the best chemical legislation system anywhere in the world. At least I think I'll go home and put a tick in the calendar for that. I would just like to say that such a system will only be achieved if you make agreements with each other and abide by them. And one of the things that was in those agreements was that from the day REACH comes into force, you cannot start making special rules yourself. It may be irritating, and it is megaphrasing for some countries, but it is also what makes the other countries not beginning to make all sorts of special rules, where they give much greater opportunity to produce all sorts of crap and I do not know whether to swear in English in this Chamber, regret that we do not want to enter our markets. Then that is just the way it is in politics that you make some agreements, and you abide by them. Mr. Søren Søndergaard not that you have to abide by the agreements you have made with your political parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170231	After all, it is totally unfair to ask Mrs Ida Auken what Mrs Ida Auken's position was when Denmark would not actually comply with the agreements on bisphenol A. But since Mrs Ida Auken himself has said this from the speaking chair of the Folketing, people know the answer. Yes, there may be situations where the welfare of the population is more important than some EU technicalities. Yeah, that's absolutely right. That is our view. There are some situations where public health is more important. And for my sake, Mrs. Ida Auken is very happy to put a cross on the calendar. It is perhaps just 10-15 years too late, at least 10 years too late, because I too have repeatedly stressed in the European Parliament that REACH is the best multinational system we have at all, the best multinational, which is why we must of course do everything possible to make it better, and we must, of course, also work to ensure that countries can take the lead in our people's health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170328	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170331	Does the Enhedslisten believe that it is a technicality to intervene against existing national legislation or future national legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170343	It is a technicality that a limit has been set which does not relate to the substance, namely what limits there should be for some substances. It's a technicality. The interesting thing is that you have other rules in this area in some other countries. There are other rules in terms of content. Now I have not brought all the countries up here, but it is, for example. countries close to such as Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands. And there I think, when we have to argue in the European Union, that it is a technicality to say that other countries that want to have the same standard cannot have it because they have not introduced it on a certain date. I think that is a technicality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170436	No, it's not a technicality, as Enhedslisten thinks it is. Can the Enhedslisten not understand that there is a difference between taking action against any legislation already adopted by a parliament and, so to speak, there are limits to what can be adopted in a field where common rules have been agreed? Because that is what the debate is about, in other words whether we should legislate retroactively or not. That is what Enhedslisten calls some kind of EU technicality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170512	In other words, the starting point for REACH and all this is that it is the same rules that should apply to the internal market. That is the starting point. If you put poison in the babysuckers in some country, you have to be able to export it to other countries, so there's also getting married in the babysuckers there. It's like the starting point. And I can understand that logic. But I cannot understand that logic when there are a number of countries that already have the right to take the lead. The whole logic of the internal market then disappears, and that is why it is a technicality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170547	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Is that the platform the minister is headed for? It wasn't; it was to the water. Apparently no one else has asked for the floor, and it was not today that we were able to clarify who is tattooed in this room. But the debate is at least over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170615	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for the Environment and Food. So this is where the minister was headed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518170634	Thank you, President. Yes, it was, President. I think I'd be in good time. And I would also like to thank the alternative for having tabled the motion for a resolution. The Government agrees that there are major environmental problems associated with textile production. The fashion and textile industry is one of the most polluting and resource consuming industries in the world, and we would therefore like to help promote public demand and thus also the market for more sustainable textiles. However, this should not be done by deciding how individual municipalities, regions or other public authorities should organise their procurement. They should be allowed to control it themselves. However, we would like to inform, advise and make good tools available to purchasers. In the national strategy for smart public procurement, sustainability is mentioned as one of the three overall objectives in addition to efficiency and quality development. And the government's basis shows that public investment and procurement must be made more on the basis of life cycle calculations, looking at the overall level of expenditure over the lifetime of the product rather than looking at the cost of the product alone. In other words, a course has already been set which suggests that green products should be considered when shopping in the public sector. This also applies to the purchase of textiles, for example. bedding, towels and work clothes, and a number of initiatives have been launched to promote a more environmentally friendly production of textiles. One of the initiatives is the Nordic Action Plan for sustainable fashion and textiles, which Denmark initiated. As part of the action plan, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has among other things: launched a work to develop a so-called step-by-step guide to facilitate the management and application of relevant requirements in the supply chain on the chemical content of textiles. We are also finalising a guide to the Nordic purchasers in the hospital sector, which focuses on how hospitals can demand environmentally friendly textiles. And efforts have been made to increase both the supply and knowledge of eco-labeled textiles. In both 2015 and 2016, the Danish EPA has provided grants to companies that have wanted to work with eco-label clothing and other textiles on the Danish market. There is also a focus on textiles in our general work on green procurement. In this context, the Green Public Procurement Partnership, whose members together cover 20% of the total. of the public procurement in Denmark, working with new goals for members' purchases of textile and textile services, where they impose environmental requirements on the purchase. This is a very fine example of making it easy for those who want to make green demands on their purchases. Green purchasing criteria have also been developed in the EU for textiles, and of course we have made them easily accessible to Danish purchasers via the website of responsible purchasers, www.csr-inkob.dk, and the Sustainable Purchase Forum. Today, we do not have much knowledge about the real costs of demand for green products, and this also applies to textiles. More knowledge is simply needed. Therefore, I am pleased that the Danish EPA is currently launching a project on the price of green water, which will give us some ideas on the economic consequences of purchasing green in selected product areas. Such a project can help public purchasers to identify product areas where it makes good sense to make green demands with the same budget. I think that in Denmark we have a good overall framework that creates space for purchasing in the public sector, whether in the municipalities or regions or other public institutions, to a large extent can demand environmentally friendly textiles if they want to. I also think that we have launched a number of good initiatives which will contribute to more environmentally friendly and socially responsible clothing production. Of course, we can improve and we are receptive to good suggestions and recommendations. The government is also expecting the recommendations of the advisory board for circular economy, which we have set up. I think it makes very good sense to see any new initiatives in the area of procurement and textiles in the context of the overall recommendations from the advisory board, so that we can give extra impetus to the circular economy in Denmark. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171038	But there was one question from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171042	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. First of all, of course, I am sorry that the government cannot support this proposal, because it is actually a proposal that will move something forward. What this is all about is that, in order to create fair competition, we must help those companies that actually invest in meeting both social and environmental standards. And that is what we can do with public spending. Instead of going out and making subsidies, we can actually just say that in public procurement we are doing this way. So we booster their turnover and thus actually increase free competition in this area, instead of those who do bad can sell their things cheaper. So does the Minister think it's enough to do it this way when you're out there all the time looking at the price? There is, of course, a small additional cost when you choose to buy socially and environmentally sustainable. So does the Minister think that it will be quick enough to give guidance only in relation to the conversion needed in the textile and clothing sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171145	Thank you for the question. Yes, I do, and I am also confident that there is a clear orientation towards this among our public purchasers, also in relation to the initiatives I mentioned. I know, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is a trust-based person, and trust in public purchasers is better than coercion, and that is also why we are not in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171209	After all, this is also about setting a direction and saying which way we want to go from the political side, that is, from the management side. Now I hear that this is about not interfering in municipalities and regions, but would the Minister be willing to do so if we now amended this proposal, tabled an amendment and said that this was true of government procurement? That is where we have direct responsibility if we are to take seriously what the Minister said. So is it going to be supported that we are making the transformation of procurement under the auspices of the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171241	Thank you for the question. After all, we have already set out in the government's constitution the direction Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is asking for and, as I also started my speech by mentioning, we do not see a need to go further along that path as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171258	Then we can thank the Minister. Then we start with the series of rapporteurs, and that is first Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171305	Thank you. I would like to start in the same place as the Minister did, namely by thanking the alternative for setting one, we think, important and also current agenda to ensure that public procurement of textiles promotes both environmentally friendly and socially sustainable clothing production. As is also outlined in the proposal, we are buying textiles and clothing in a large-scale way in the health sector, the police, the military, home care and a large number of other places. That is why we would also like to be involved, both in this area, but also in a whole range of other areas, in using our joint muscle, our public crowns, to support a development that we would like to see in this case green and socially sustainable development. This applies both at home, but also where the products are produced, and in the case of textiles it is often abroad. I've read that a single T-shirt can cost 1,400 litres of water to produce. This is probably not something everyone knows, and for both private and public, it may also be a bit of a jungle to navigate how to buy textiles, which comply with environmental requirements, and whose production also takes place on proper conditions, so that an employee is not exposed to dangerous chemistry and critical conditions, as we have seen too many times. There can probably also be a lot of administrative leeway if you want to set a direction as a municipality or something else. However, although this is an important matter for us and we are also saying that it does not come naturally, I would also like to highlight some of the things that we have actually already done. In 2013, when we sat in government, we presented a strategy for smart public procurement, one of which was to set environmental and energy requirements, develop green solutions and take social responsibility and necessary social considerations. So that strategy is based on promoting healthy development, but at the same time, of course, ensuring that we do not pay overpriced. That balance is important. At the same time we can also see, if we look around the world, that there are also countries other than Denmark that are concerned about this. In the EU, which buys EUR 2 000 billion, it has a goal that 50%. of the public procurement must be green procurement, and it is also included in the package that came about the circular economy in 2015. I also noted that the sustainability objectives that we, together with all the countries of the world, have adopted include the issue of sustainable consumption and procurement. So something happens, but of course we can get better. On the other hand, we also have some reservations about the proposal as formulated here, both in relation to what exactly we are talking about for some certification schemes and how it affects the economy of the municipalities and the state, if we set this 100-percent objective. These are some points which, because it is a motion for a resolution, are only slightly touched on in the text, but it is of course very important in reality. That is why we would like to discuss this with the authors of the motion for a resolution in committee. We also know that soon, in particular, the profession will be giving some recommendations to the government and to the rest of us on the circular economy, where we also know that public procurement is involved. So there is something more going on, and I think that should also be included naturally in the work and discussion we have here. So, in conclusion, we are concerned about promoting socially responsible and sustainable solutions and procurement, but the footwork must of course be in place, and that is why we have some questions that we would like to discuss with the proposers in committee, and we look forward to doing so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171705	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171709	Thank you and thank you for the positive attitude of the Social Democratic Party. I'm very happy about that. Now the rapporteur mentioned the world objectives and among other things. this global goal of sustainable consumption and production. That is what we have to deal with, and that is what we are trying to support with this. Now I was in the fashion business before I came here in the Folketing, and I know what a mess we're doing in that business. And if it is not through public procurement, are there any other options, as the rapporteur sees, for us to be able to put turbo on the transition that is absolutely necessary, both for the social and environmental aspects?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171752	It is true that the sustainability objectives will not materialise unless we, as individual countries, assume our share of the responsibility. It is not only about what you do in other countries, but also what Denmark itself has to do at home. That is why I do not think we are in line with this, and I am sorry if that is what has been the impression, but the question is always: exactly how do we do it? We would really like to continue to ask: how do we do this in the best possible way? There we think we need some more discussions in committee, taking some of the input that comes from the industry here in June, on how they can imagine that they too, as a profession, can play a part in the public procurement process in order to ensure more sustainable development and more sustainable production. So we would like to continue along this path, but we are not quite sure that it is exactly the way it is outlined here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171849	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518171856	Thank you. And thank you also for the proposal, which is basically that we should try to make the world better. I guess you could put it that way too. And that is a pious wish and something that I think we are all concerned with in each of our ways. In the Danish People's Party we are not prepared to create a strategy that goes as far as this. I am convinced that in municipalities and regions there are politicians who make strategies, depending on what they have to buy, who then have their own goals that they now want to comply with, and I think that is fine to that extent. When it comes to textiles, I am also well aware that production is very different, depending on where it happens, and I think that the Minister has actually put it so well by saying that we have set some initiatives in motion. We are, of course, waiting for more from this advisory board we must have found a Danish expression of such a thing, we simply have to make some good suggestions, and I really think that if we have to say something positive or say something positive here in a positive way, then I think that what we are trying to do is try to do as well as possible. But I must admit that I also have the clear view that I do not believe that we can save the whole world. It may be a bit harsh to say, but I don't believe that. I think we have done a great deal to try to find the places where you can buy things and where it is done in the best possible way. Then I know that we can start in the public sector, we can start in the state, we can get municipalities and regions to go further, but that is where I think what we are doing in the way the Minister also presented it, trying to get some labelling, trying to get some information, must be the best way. So I cannot immediately understand the economic consequences if we say that it is only from here that we have to buy some things. And then I don't like making a monopoly. I have to say that I simply do not like that. I am well aware that there will not necessarily be only one place to buy. I certainly hope that there are several places where you have some sustainability, as we call it a word, which I do not like, by the way, because it is used in such a way that you have at least some good social conditions for your workers and where you ensure that the environment is protected as much as possible. I hope that happens in more places in the world than just one place. I am well aware that the monopoly is not meant that way. But I think that what is important is that we have the debate that we should ensure that we do this properly and in an enlightened way, but then also accept that there is something called market conditions, accept that the world is what it is, it is not perfect, and then we try to influence as well as possible, but without making dictations. Against this background, the Danish People's Party certainly cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172220	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172223	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. There are a lot of things I could go into, and we could have a big discussion about whether we can save the whole world or not. At least I think we should do our best to make ours that way. However, what I am really interested in is one of the last things the rapporteur has said about market conditions. Today there is, in fact, unequal competition, because the price is often slightly higher when you choose to live up to socially and environmentally high standards. And by saying that we are transforming all this huge state, regional and municipal purchases and spending that money in that direction, we would just go in and create a better balance because we would support many of the producers who would like to go this way. And there are many different small and large producers who can support the market in this way, so that the private consumers out there also have a real choice in terms of buying it. So does the rapporteur not see that this can also be used as a tool to actually achieve a better balance between those who want to achieve high social and environmental standards and those who really do not care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172332	Yeah, I can see that. I also think that as a private person you can tell the difference between a T-shirt that costs 20 kroner and one that costs 100 kroner. There's something there too. But there may also be some design in what makes the price higher. Now the rapporteur for the proposers himself comes from the fashion industry, and I know that design can also make things more expensive, where it may not necessarily be about environmentally sound substances or textiles that are made in the right way, but where it is designed to make the product expensive. That is not what we should be discussing, you can say, but there is a market, and when I go out and buy clothes, I go out personally and buy the clothes I like. There are some who buy organic clothes; some say that this is something they care a lot about. Some people buy organic food, and some people care about it. But that must be up to each consumer. What I think is important is that you actually have a labelling system, so that as a consumer you also have an option, because that helps to regulate the market. So, for me, a labelling system will be one of the most obvious. This is among other things. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party would like to have labeled halalmeat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172446	But precisely when it comes to free choice, there are many small producers who say that they have absolutely no opportunity to go into these standards, because it is an investment for them to live up to them. And if they now know that the public sector is actually spending all their 100 million dollars on textiles and clothing in this, then they can see a market and that that is not what constitutes the price difference. Then there may be marks on the neck, and there may be designs and everything else that does something more expensive and something cheaper, but then it's not exactly here where we discriminate the wrong way in relation to these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172520	But discrimination will always exist. I mean, we are talking here about textiles, but there are also textiles, for example. food production. There will also be some different things you do in food production. And what is important to me as a consumer must be that if there is a label, I can, as a consumer, take a position on what I want to support, and so can the public. The public authorities can then go in there and say that we want to go in some direction or another, and that can then change depending on political beliefs. However, I believe that the most important thing must be that we, as consumers, should be able to take a position on this in some way as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172613	Thank you. The Left agrees with the proposers' intention that clothing should be produced sustainably with respect for both people and nature. A large part of the clothing we buy in the Western world is produced in Asia under questionable conditions, one might say. A number of accidents have also occurred in Bangladesh and elsewhere, and attention has been paid to the more or less pitiful working conditions that we have seen there. However, as a public purchaser, there are also clear restrictions on how far we can go to check whether the supplier meets all ethical requirements. At the same time, it is also the clear principle and starting point of the Left that we should, as far as possible, leave as many decisions as possible to those who sit with decisions in everyday life. From Christiansborg's point of view, we must have confidence in public servants and institutions and, as far as possible, avoid pushing too many strategies, action plans and policies down over the heads of public employees around the country and in municipalities and regions. That is why we in the Left are extremely sceptical about the alternative resolution. How, for example, is the individual buyer supposed to do so? a municipality ensures that the T-shirts purchased for e.g. the lifeguards in the municipal swimming pool, with a state guarantee is produced under proper conditions and with a track of agreements and working conditions? It's quite a task, and it's a lot, a responsible buyer so suddenly has to be on target. It can therefore, before we look around, go and become very bureaucratic and therefore expensive to manage on the basis of the purchasing strategy proposed here by the alternative. Basically, I am also surprised that the alternative behind this motion for a resolution is that. I actually thought and assumed that we had a common agenda to set the public sector free and work together for fewer interventions and such things from Christiansborg's side towards municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, this motion for a resolution will make daily life both more difficult and troublesome in both regions and municipalities and other public companies, and in the Left we have the ambition to reduce the amount of trouble and bureaucracy, and we think so much about before imposing new demands on public servants. On that basis, the Left cannot support the proposal and we will vote against it. Then I should also welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they are also voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172855	That gave rise to a question from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172858	Well, I'm just gonna have to explain this to you that it's gonna be very difficult. There are different certifications that you can lean on, and that is what is here the whole essence, that is to say that we must support those who actually do so. If you are going out to have new T-shirts, there are good Danish companies that are actually thoroughly certified. So I can't understand this: it's going to be very difficult and bureaucratic. It must be very easy to follow these instructions. That is precisely why we have put forward this proposal, namely to set up a very clear framework and guidelines to support free competition, including for the sustainable fashion textiles.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518172942	As I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, the intention is to produce sensible, sustainable and environmentally friendly, and in agreement, etc. We have also said, as we have said, that this is a fine intention, but I also think that we had a good statement from the Minister that if you come with advice and guidance and deed, for example. In the case of municipalities and regions, that is the way things are going. And it was also explained what things are going on in order to provide guidance guides and such things. So the development is set in motion, but there is some way from there and then to what the alternative seems to suggest here, where it becomes a little too square and a little too bureaucratic. And that's where the chain gets off like that for me. That is also why I wonder why it should just be from the alternative that you bring that kind of thing. I actually thought that this was also about showing some confidence and giving freedoms to our municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173038	Now I'm gonna stop going into a little polemic talk about trusting. I think they would appreciate that in many places in the public sector. This is about setting up frames. And if I could just ask again about the fact that there is certification, how is it that it gets messed up? And would the rapporteur be involved if we were to say that we are making together an amendment which states that it is a question of state procurement and not of local and regional government? If that is the part of what the rapporteur is against, then we can do it immediately in the state field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173107	Well, I also think that the chain here falls off for the alternative, because the rapporteur himself says that for the alternative, it is about setting a clear framework on what I am going the other way and saying that we actually have confidence in municipalities and regions, and then we support them precisely with advice and guidance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173125	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173131	Thank you. The Enhedslisten would like to support this resolution. In particular, it makes good sense that all public bodies, i.e. municipalities, regions and the state itself are required by 2018 to have developed a concrete, forward-looking procurement policy for textiles so that citizens and organisations can assess whether municipalities actually meet an increasingly environmentally friendly and socially responsible procurement of textiles. Of course, there must be openness around supply chains to the extreme. The proposal itself is somewhat loosely formulated in relation to what it is actually that the government should do. I would therefore like the government to be given specific tasks which can actually promote the intentions of the proposal. Such a task could be for the State to draw up guidelines for a procurement policy that can be used in municipalities, regions and state institutions, with an indication of which requirements can and should be incorporated, for example. with different levels of ambition. This could provide the basis for some good discussions, for example. in the municipalities, about where to place oneself on the ambition scale. But that is perhaps something that we can formulate into a report or a report. Sometimes it may be important to take one step at a time, and if you look at the organic dining mark, you have been able to lay three levels, a bronze, silver and gold mark, so there is something to work towards. There's gonna be a little competition in it. You get turned on and get some good processes. In a similar way, it may be good for you to take one item at a time in your purchasing policy and become more skilled at selecting the right one. So I think it is good that the proposal has now been tabled. I think that this is a fine prelude to a municipal and regional elections, where local purchasing policy can be part of the theme of the election campaign and you don't have to wait for the Folketing to have a majority that will decide something specific. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173344	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I would like to welcome Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173353	Thank you very much. After all, it has become almost a law of nature that every political level is constantly trying to absorb or fight decision-making powers from other political levels. This is an unfortunate development. The Liberal Alliance does not believe that the Folketing should decide in detail what type of textile or for that matter anything else should be purchased in all parts of the public sector. It must be a decision for the individual entity or the procurement cooperation in which the entity is involved. Personally, I am very pleased that the government base shows that public investment and procurement must be made more on the basis of life cycle calculations, which look at the overall level of expenditure throughout the lifetime of the product rather than just looking at the cost of the product. I think this is the most appropriate way of pushing forward the developments that both the Liberal Alliance and the proposers want. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for a very good review of all the existing initiatives in this area. But the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173522	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518173535	Thank you very much. As a long-standing advocate of actively using public procurement, I would like to thank you for having this discussion today and addressing an area such as textiles. The public buys for 290 billion. kr., maybe by now it's 300 billion. kr., so it's of course a lot we can move on. I believe, in fact, that textiles are a relatively small corner when we talk about sustainable public procurement. I think we need to use our powers where we can really move something, because the problem with fashion and the whole fashion business is that it is as global as it is. And that means that when we buy in relatively little, it is not certain that that is where we really move something. For our sake, we can very much take it as an element of a strategy on how to use public procurement to move things, but I think we need to get on a slightly bigger blade if we really have to do something to move this agenda. It's really hard because it's global. Most manufacturers of textiles have production and subcontractors all over the world; they produce all sorts of places where it can be difficult to make Danish legislation apply. These are, of course, the chains we need to go down to make sure that we really get sustainable textiles. You have to be able to see what subcontractors there are and how they deal with water, chemicals, pesticides and how they treat their employees. There are a lot of questions in this. So one of the things I think is really promising with regard to the issue of sustainable textiles is one of the things that happens in the industry itself. Well, it's actually an industry that's starting to move on. Less than a week ago there was Copenhagen Fashion Summit, which is in fact the world's largest meeting place for both decision-makers and the fashion industry, and it was held here in Copenhagen. We have an industry in Denmark that wants to be known for being sustainable fashion, and that wants to drive the whole fashion industry forward with a Nordic model and a Danish model for how to think of sustainable textiles. I think it is really, really important that you get to the big blade here and not say that it is the tiny corner that we buy that is the answer. If we want to move the fashion industry, then we have to make sure that when a strategy comes from the government on circular economy in relation to textiles, it is a place where you really go for some partnerships with the Danish industry to collect textiles, get recycled them, develop new technologies that can ensure that the fibres are recycled, that there is like a whole logistics for it, and that we have supported the work that is happening at the moment in getting huge players like H&M, Hugo Boss, IKEA, Nike. So there are really some of the greats who are moving on at the moment. It is important that we get that work supported; to listen to what can actually do when we make legislation, that these things move on. Too many of them would like to. And I think it is a very, very positive development that is taking place in this area. Then I would say that the place where you can really move some of this shopping muscle is, of course, in the European Union. Then we start touching a market that's so big that it actually pushes these very big players, including those who don't want to volunteer. I know that the European Commission is working very hard on textiles being one of the next focus areas, just as plastic has been the fact that you are actually starting to look at how we can move an entire industry like the textile industry. And there I hope that Denmark will go in and play a really active role, also in the EU, also at ministerial level, in relation to textiles becoming a focus area when we look at the circular economy. And again I would say that I have great hopes for the government's strategy for the circular economy. Then I would say in relation to public procurement that I think it is worth remembering some of the things we have actually done, also when we had another government with Radical and Social Democracy and also the SF. That's where we actually moved these things. We had a big public procurement strategy that took the first steps we didn't get far enough to use this big muscle we have. We had an eco-labelling made of wood, that is to say, you have to buy the FSC brand or PEFC branded wood if you are a state player. We have just been through a great battle on the procurement law, where we radically struck a huge blow to save the eco-labels. This means that as a municipality you can already go out and do some of these things, and I think that is important to keep that in mind. And then, of course, we have Partnership for Public Green Procurement, which actually covers 17 per cent. of public procurement over 50 billion kr. I think it could be really exciting if we write a report that we could take it into account that we can write that we would like to try to do something so that the Partnership for Public Green Procurement could focus on textiles and find out how great the potential really is. For in the alternative's proposal today, there is not much about what the potential is for public green procurement of textiles. This may be due to the fact that there is little data on what the state buys, other than on uniforms in the health sector and the police and elsewhere. So I still think it is a slightly too narrow a proposal. We would like to support the fact that a report is being written which spreads a little in relation to really using the muscle of public procurement for more than textiles. I think it might be exciting that the Partnership for Public Green Purchases made some attempts to look at how we could get broad textiles out. So we are actually very positive, but we think it should be a little different in a report than it is in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174129	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174132	Of course, one can always be a little disappointed when there is no support from the Radical Left for such a proposal here. What this is all about is supporting the part of the industry that has chosen to say that they take this seriously and that do not compete on equal terms because there is dumping prices in very many areas because there are some who do it really badly. I know the rapporteur as well as I do, because she has also worked in this area elsewhere than I have. So how do we support the part of the industry that actually does it well? How do we do that? That's what you went in and did with wood, that's what you do when you start setting some requirements for shopping. Unfortunately, the EU directive did not go as far as it could. I know that the rapporteur sat there with me and fought to go further, because this directive actually had the opportunity to do so in the area of public procurement. But how do we support the part of the industry that needs our full support and help to be those who grow and face fair competition from the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174237	I am sorry if the alternative rapporteur understood that the Radicals do not support this proposal. We do, but we may just have bigger ambitions than we want to mess with a very small corner of green procurement within the public sector. It is true that there are some manufacturers in Denmark who are skilled, and one could appropriately buy more from their stuff; we really have some superb people in this area who also use recycled textiles. But the way in which I think we really support the industry is to do some of the things we did in the Ministry of the Environment, where we made some partnerships with some of the big textile producers, including how they can make real certification schemes, because those who are in the fashion area are not very good, and you don't have those two prominent schemes that you have on wood. There are very, very many, and you have not really managed what is best, whether it is EP&L, or what kind of arrangements you need. So I believe more in going into experimenting in collaboration with the industry and finding out which schemes hit most targeted in the places where it really moves something: it can be water, it can be pesticides, it can be recycled materials, and it can be working conditions. In relation to this, I think it would be appropriate for Denmark to go in and make a partnership, because it would certainly be a step towards moving something, and that would ensure that the dialogue that comes into the European Union is very, very concrete and action-oriented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174352	I can assure the rapporteur that this is not all that I and the alternative have of ambition in this area either, but it is a place to start. It's a place to tell us how to move forward, move forward and move forward. I know there is still a lot of work to be done on certification, i.e. how we get it or the two good brands. But we're gonna have to start supporting this, and that's what we're trying to do here. I look forward to working with the rapporteur in committee on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174421	We look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174423	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no more brief comments, which is why we welcome Mrs Trine Torp from the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174431	In fact, we in the SF agree that public procurement, which is environmentally, socially and ethically sound, should be carried out. We also agree that the production of clothing and textiles is an important reason why there is too much environmental impact and too much stress on natural resources. So there is good reason to do something. Public procurement is certainly an obvious place to make an effort. But it also requires that there are some things that we take a position on, including what is environmentally friendly. Organic cotton is quite close to being so, but are clothes made from synthetic fibres worse or better than clothes made from textiles where pesticides have been used? Synthetic clothing, for example, throws. microplastics of them in the washing machine, but on the other hand can be more durable. Organic cotton may not be the best for working clothes when working with a lot of wear on clothing. In this way, there are some discussions which I think the work of the committee should also contribute to so that we can have a qualified solution to this. This microplastic issue is, moreover, a subject on which I imagine I shall have a place in the work on the action plan on plastic pollution, on which we have a joint motion for a resolution and which, fortunately, the Folketing agrees that we should have. I could well miss a description in the motion for a resolution of what sort of barriers there are, so that we also know what course we are going to take. I guess I have a feeling that it's a mix of habit and price-consciousness, you could call it, but it would be nice if we could get some of these challenges described. Then we would also be a little clearer about what really needs to be done to create a strategy. This is especially if we want a comprehensive procurement strategy already in 2018, which is what is being proposed. So we support the intention of more sustainable procurement and would really like to work with a strategy for it. It's not just a matter of clothing shopping, it's a matter of fact. I actually think it's great to get to grips with this very thing with clothes, but we might be able to work on a more comprehensive purchasing strategy. So we are positive, but we think that it is perhaps appropriate to try to find a majority for a joint report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174706	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518174724	Thank you and thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for the debate so far on this proposal. What this is basically about is that it must be sustainable fashion that is the standard for all fashion. I myself come from the industry, the textile and fashion industry, which makes clothing, and when you have worked in it, you know what social and environmental costs are, which are absolutely monstrous. That is also why in the last few years I worked very specifically to ask how we can train future designers to think sustainably from the first line on paper or the first calculation of a new textile and until production. Fortunately, there is real, really great development in the industry with both textiles and clothing. The industry is doing a lot. As Mrs Ida Auken mentioned, Copenhagen Summit was held last week. It's been running for a few years now, and now you're actually getting all the biggest players together to ask how we're gonna move on from this business. Because it is a global industry, and it has huge consequences for a lot of people around the world, both socially and to a large extent environmentally and healthly. Because there is a great deal of textile production that is deeply, deeply harmful to health. What this is all about is: what is it then that we do something about it? How are we gonna change this business? I would like all consumers to just jump around and say that it was great to be bladder- and sustainable, but we're just not there yet. I was down in a big chain, Hennes & Mauritz. They do, among other things. a small line that is sustainable. I couldn't find it. Then I asked, Where is it? The answer was: we have mixed that from time to time because people do not necessarily want it. They want to buy it if they just see it. So this awareness of the consumer is not to support market forces, so it gets to where it's just all companies that transform. That is why we must help from the public side. Therefore, we must help to create good and common strategies on circular thinking, how to recycle textiles, recycle fibres. It is not enough to collect in a country that we really need to think some good systems across the European countries in all this. It's really, really good, and I know there's a lot of work going on around this. But what we want with this proposal is to say that we also have to do something now and here. We don't think we're saving the world with this, but we think we're taking a small step to support those manufacturers and companies that make textiles and clothing that are actually trying to do it themselves. And there are some really good, both foreign, but to such an extent also Danish companies, which are actually leading the way, but who have a really hard time, because when they meet the buyer, both the public but also those from large private companies, for example. Advertisement T-shirts, they always sit there and say: Well, okay, we can save a little, then we'll take the other one. We take it that is not certified for the use of renewable energy, that proper working conditions have been provided, that proper materials have been used. And these are the producers we want to help, so that their price reaches the same as the other one. That is what we can do through consumption, and that is why we are proposing that we say that the public crowns should be used only for the good. But again: thank you for the debate, of course thanks to those parties that were positive about it. We are always pleased about this when we come up with a motion for a resolution. I look forward very much to trying to work further in committee and perhaps also to gather a little across and start looking at some of the things that both Mrs Ida Auken and Mrs Trine Torp mentioned about how this should be tackled strategically. Do you want us to make a report on this whole thing? I hope that we can make progress together, because there should be no doubt that I actually believe that this will have huge significance, as I know this industry. I believe that it will be extremely important because the producers who do well will be supported. But there are also other good ways to do that, and that is what we hope to be able to do together to find out how we support it. This is our proposal. I still think that would be very good, but I am also hearing the debate and counting mandates and thinking that okay, it is probably not right now that there is a majority in favour of it. Then we'll have to push for it so that it's another way of supporting this, and hopefully we can make this transition to sustainable consumption in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175213	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175219	It's just a simple question. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that it would be quite fair for consumers to have such a labelling system so that, as a consumer, I can choose for myself whether to go to the right or to the left, in other words, just as we do with ecology and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175238	In fact, there is already a sea that is the major problem in the textile sector of various certifications, and you do not know what to look for. We must also go into the work of the Danish Parliament and say: How can we support the work towards a more uniform certification, which one can recognise, both in the social and environmental fields? However, this does not mean that we cannot already work on the certifications that are actually in the area, among other things. Green certification, which involves both the social and environmental aspects. It's not a big, well-known certification, but it actually works. I think we should clearly go into that and I would very, very much like to help support the work that the industry would also like to have done, namely the work to find a good certification in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175323	I am a little pleased about this, because I think it is important that you, as a consumer, should be able to make some choices yourself. We do this precisely in relation to organic food, we do so in relation to the swan brand and so on. etc. In fact, we have an incredibly large number of brands which are not readily available in the main, and if there is one in the textile sector too, then it is perhaps information campaigns that we are going into, so that people know what the marks mean. Unfortunately, we don't just have a TV channel so everyone can get the same information. No, I don't know if it is, but it's just to say it's a jungle to get through. I just think it is important that you as a consumer have an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175401	I welcome the questioner's fact that I have just today read about the first pair of jeans that have been swan-marked, and it is women's jeans that actually have the swan mark. And it's a Danish company. But yes, we need to work more on certification. It can also be supported, and this is also what has happened with the organic consumption of food. It is also because it has been taken seriously by the public that it has boosted the farmers who produce organic food so that they have been able to go out and sell the goods and the prices have thus also become more visible to ordinary consumers. That is what we can do with public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175434	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175453	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175511	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen and the Danish People's Party for making the proposal. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that the increasing trend in the number of rat reports is worrying and that it is therefore important that we look at initiatives to prevent and control rats. The motion for a resolution is intended to ensure that the country's municipalities set up rat traps on all sewers that lead to hospitals, schools, nursing homes and day care centres, both public and private, unless technically impossible. In the government, we agree that an increased requirement should be made for the setting up of rat barriers in the municipalities. However, it should be specified when derogations from the requirement to set up a rat barrier may be granted. The government therefore supports the proposal, and we do so on the basis of the following grounds: Rats are harmful organisms and spreaders and cause huge financial losses to Danish society if they are not effectively held back. At the same time, we know that rats pose an increasing problem in many municipalities. Therefore, it is already required today that sewer lines into schools, nursing homes and day care centres should be provided with rat barriers, but only where the municipality is the landowner. However, the problem is the same for private schools, nursing homes and day care institutions. Today there is no requirement for rat barriers to be set up, and therefore the action against rats is entirely dependent on the individual institution. In hospitals, the municipality may, with the permission of the region or the private landowner, set up a rat seal, but there is no obligation to do so. The proposal ensures that in all sensitive institutions such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals, rat barriers are systematically put up, whether public or private. On 2 March, DR Cash reported that the number of rat reviews has increased in the last 4 years in 80%. of the municipalities of the country. And on Tuesday of last week, BT reported that a review of the file from five municipalities shows that 50 out of 121 nursing homes had reported rats from 2012 until today. Especially in hospitals, schools, nursing homes and day care institutions, the potential consequences are great. At the same time, we know that the setting up of rat barriers is an important part of the action against rats, as they effectively prevent rats from entering the settlements. However, it is important that we clarify when the rat seals should be set up. Here I do not believe that the wording in B 124 that the setting up of a rat seal should take place, and I quote, unless technically impossible, is appropriate. As an example, it is not meaningful to set up rat barriers in places in Denmark where there are no rats, for example. on Fanoe and Læsø. There are sewer systems where there are built-in pumps which in themselves constitute an effective barrier to the rats and there are places where the setting up of rat barriers will require local conversion of the sewage system, which would be disproportionately expensive. I therefore propose that we look at what exceptions can be included in a new regulation, so that no rat barriers are put in place where it is not meaningful. The government can therefore endorse the resolution through a report, and it is important for the government that we have a look at where there may be cases where municipalities should be exempted from the requirement to set up rat seals. In addition, the government is preparing a proper action plan to help break the trend of rising rat problems that we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175847	Thank you, Minister. This did not give rise to any brief comments, so we are moving on to the first rapporteur as a matter of urgency, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518175859	That is correct, and thank you for that. In the Social Democratic Party we support the ideas and also the intention of this excellent motion for a resolution. Sometimes, when you have more motions for resolutions in the course of such a day, you can think about whether something really is going to be done, but I think this proposal is a good one, and I am quite sure that we will get to grips with an important issue, and that is satisfactory in every way. Rats are a widespread problem that causes a great nuisance in many places and in many ways. They destroy buildings, they spread diseases, they destroy food, and then they also disgust most people. So, of course, that is something we must fight. It is clear today from the rat decree that the municipalities must also set up a rat seal where appropriate and technically feasible. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe, as a starting point, that it is a good principle that it is the municipalities that should assess it because they are the closest to it. On the other hand, we must also note that many municipalities have apparently not been effective enough in their rat control, because we can see that the number of observations has just increased and increased. Of course, this is not satisfactory and we cannot just look at it passively. In relation to the measures to be taken, I think it would be sensible, as the Minister also mentioned, for us to sit together in a larger debate and have a more general look at how we can tackle this problem. There are certainly places where rat barrier is the best solution, but there may also be places where the sewer system is in such a way that rat barrier is not the best solution. So I welcome the fact that we can have a real debate as a consequence of a report that I hope very many parties can support. This is a problem which the municipalities should actually be able to deal with, and when you read the legislation today, you might think that it should be enough, but we have to take seriously that the challenges simply rise and rise year after year. That is why we need to tackle the problem. So I am pleased to note that the Minister is suggesting that, following a report, we can have some debates convened and dealt with this problem in a broad circle of parties. I think we'll stand by that, all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180122	You're welcome, sir. Rabjerg Madsen. The next rapporteur is now Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left, because the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution first has to go to the very end. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180140	Thank you. Rat problems are really unpleasant, and of course something effective must be done about this. Rats are an increasing problem both in cities and in some rural areas. Therefore, it is important that rats can be effectively controlled. At the same time, it is important that we have the best possible means to combat them as well. Rats pose a health risk and can also inflict on homeowners, traders, farmers and others. major financial losses in addition to the very many other genes know it. I welcome the fact that a motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Danish People's Party which addresses the issues of fighting rats. The main aim of the proposal is to set up rat seals in sewers, for example. leads to nursing homes, day care facilities etc. In addition, I have also received various reports about rat problems outside the sewers, for example. in rural areas, e.g. in lands a little further away from housing, but close enough that it is also a major problem, which I also think something needs to be done about. There is a derogation for possible use of poison, but it is a very expensive scheme, which means that the scheme is not sufficiently user-friendly. I therefore welcome the fact that the Ministry has started to look at all these issues, and in the Left we fully support a report on this matter, with the aim of making progress, in broad cooperation, in developing effective tools for the control of rats, both in the sewers and elsewhere. Then I should say hello to the Conservatives and say that they are on the same line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180325	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, and he is welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180340	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the intentions of the proposal to do something more, and I understand that the Minister also supports that view. The proposal itself says that it is the municipal authorities who must ensure certain things, but I think it should also be the regional councils because the hospitals are included in the proposal. So we need something that lands it for both regions and municipalities. I also think that there is a dilemma in the fact that there may be some municipalities that have invested in other technical solutions. I'm thinking, among other things. at the municipality of Hedensted, which has chosen a technique where some of these rats are impaled, and thus a great effect has been achieved. So a conclusion on this whole case, which could lead to several types of rat control, I think would be an advantage. I think there is an overlooked problem that we should take more seriously, and this is where municipalities use so much poison to fight rats that the rats then over time get resistance to certain poisons. Then you try another poison, and then this poison spreads out in the wild, and the animals that may eat rats can sort of accumulate that poison in them. So we think the intentions of the proposal are very good and we think it is important that we come up with a solution where it is not only with rat barriers that we relate to, but also with other means of action. Some have then pointed out that there is a dilemma in the fact that there are private houseowners who own the plug, and when you as a municipality are trying to do something out in the large sewage system, you cannot just make an effort where the landowner owns the plug. I find it interesting that the municipality of Aarhus has entered a process in which it is considered to take over the connection in the sewage system. So I really think it would be important to clarify in a committee whether it would not also be important for the public sewerage system to be extended and to clarify the dilemmas in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180551	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180559	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. I shall be very brief and just say that the Liberal Alliance considers the issue very relevant and looks forward to being able to adjust to a report text that can be achieved by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180623	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. At that rate, being chairman today gives you a great exercise. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180629	Thank you. Smart things have already been said here, and I must also say on behalf of the Alternative that we support this proposal because it makes a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180644	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and welcome to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180652	It is moving fast today, and it is because it is a good proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward. It is a proposal which is based on the rat control decree that we made in my time in the Ministry of the Environment, where we already wanted day care institutions, hospitals and newly built areas to be protected against rats and that rat barriers were put in place. At the time, we were told that it would almost happen by itself if you made such a "can't" clause. We were told that from almost every side. And then sometimes, as a politician, you have to believe what you're told. On the other hand, it has to be said that when things have gone down I think it was in 2013 • 4 years and nothing really has happened, we must of course resort to a little harder funds, and that is what the Danish People's Party is proposing today. In this way it will move around a little on the political majority, and then things sometimes slipped up, and we can only welcome that from a radical point of view. We think it is really important for this effort to move forward. It's expensive for society when the rats make holes in the pipes around. They do very, very much damage. It's deeply annoying for people that all of a sudden rats are running around. I heard yesterday from a rat fighter that there are some places where they can't call it rats. There you have to call it puppies when you talk about being out fighting them. But then he asked if he should also say that he had just shot two puppies, and I don't think anything good comes out of that. So let's just call it rats, and it's not very funny when there's a rat running around on your property. It's not funny at all if it's in a hospital or in a day care center. And there's no reason, when we build a new area, that we don't keep it pretty much rat-free, because you can do that. To those who are sitting and looking at this, I can say that a rat lock is really a pat-off, there are different models, sitting in a well in the smaller plug-ups, the smaller systems, and making the water come one way, but that the rat cannot come the other way up. That means it stays in the big system. And what we also learned in the parliamentary committee yesterday was that when the rats can only be in the big pipes, they actually get so stressed that the population is getting smaller. There will be much, much fewer rats when they have fewer habitats, when there are fewer places to make nests, and they kill each other in such clans. This is a whole science. So it is very, very good to have limited rats, so they are only in the large systems. It will mean much fewer rats in Denmark. It is no good, then, that it has come from the fact that 60 000 cases of rats were detected, I think it was, that it is 180,000. So, of course, to all of you who sit out there and think it's a little annoying that we are now intervening here from Christiansborg we just have to say that there's been 4 years to get something done about this, and it's gone the wrong way. And that is why I think it is very good that we now have the opportunity for a very good vote and, hopefully, a debate on this area over there with the Minister. So thank you to DF for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180947	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518180955	Rats are a big problem in many places. I heard someone say a while ago that in Copenhagen you are never more than a few metres from a rat. If that's true, I don't know, but the thought is kind of scary. The rats cause damage to buildings and infrastructure, they destroy food and they pose a health risk. The control of rats so far has not been sufficient. There is a high consumption of poison in the control of rats and the risk of resistance increases with the use of poison. And with the prospect of mild winters and climate change, the problem will only get bigger. So we need to do something more effective so that we can get rat-free areas first and foremost around our hospitals, our schools, our nursing homes and other public institutions, but that we also ensure the control of rats in general in our sewage system. SF can support the proposal, and we are actually very pleased that the Danish People's Party has now changed its position since we last discussed it. There is a need for a paradigm change in the rat control, and the experience with rat barrier is very good. The sewer system is the most common route of distribution, and therefore there is also a need for the rat control not to be carried out mainly above ground. In fact, we are also sure that an investment in rat barriers is a good investment which benefits from the prevention of the spread of rats and by reducing the damage caused by rats. And I think it will also have some business benefits. In SF we would like to see a proper rat control strategy being developed. I can hear from the Minister that he will take the initiative for a real action plan • and, of course, we will be very happy to take part in the negotiations on • where we will gradually expand the areas that can be kept rat-free, and where we will also require that there be a rat-block in connection with new sewers or renovations. So we are pleased that it now seems that there is broad support for this in the Danish Parliament and that we can take further steps than we have done so far. So we are positive about the proposal and the initiative taken by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181213	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp, and then the trip has come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181225	Thank you. However, it was a positive day, one might say, when a proposal gets such a welcome. I am very pleased that the proposal has been taken so positively, and I am really glad that we can probably do something in common with all the parties in the Danish Parliament about this. It seems to me that it has been important to find a way of dealing with this rat problem, and when I have mentioned rat-blocks such as this very specifically, it is not necessarily the only thing, because for us in the Danish People's Party it has also been important to say that when you do a poison-free rat-fighting, we also avoid getting it into a food chain. Normally I'm not the one who's talking about such things, I know that, so I'm sure some people will be deeply shocked. But I actually think that when we finally start getting birds of prey and so on. Back in the country, it is also important to look after them. And there it is important that we do not use poison or that we use it as minimally as possible. It would be very good if we could make a report, for example. set some kind of deadline for the call for negotiations. I think it would be nice if everyone were to join us, and we must, of course, find a way to remove some of the inappropriate things in the proposal from certain islands which do not have rats at all. It must also be possible, that is logic for battery hens, I think. Then I just want to say that I think it is important that we get to grips with this now. We're standing right at the moment. and is in the process of building, for example. new super-sickhouses around, where there actually is no virtue compared to rats. There are also some of the super-sickhouses that do not have kitchens either, but one may not rule out the other. Anyway, it's just to say that I think it's at least essential to avoid getting a spreader like a rat now, compared to the new super-sickhouses. But thank you very much for your positive reception. And I look forward to the further progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181443	You're welcome. It seems that all parties have a common enemy here and can be gathered together. Once upon a time, a Danish writer wrote a song called: "The rats are revolting." It's a dangerous thing. However, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181515	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181537	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking the alternative for the proposal. I understand why it is being put forward. I myself share the intention that we should work with a continuing lower and lower plant protection consumption here in Denmark. For obvious reasons, that is because we must minimise the risk of plant protection products being harmful to the environment and to health. As little money as possible must be spent. But although I agree with the objective, I do not agree with the means. I am not in favour of imposing a real ban on the use of plant protection products in public areas, and this is due to several things. Firstly, the consumption of it on public land has already been drastically reduced. From 1995 up to the latest inventory in 2013, voluntary agreements and dialogue have proved possible to achieve a reduction in the consumption of plant protection products of a total of 91 per cent. In other words, without a ban, the municipalities have already drastically reduced their consumption. If, since the agreement was concluded in 1998, the authorities in Denmark have been able to produce such a fine result by voluntary means, I see no reason to impose a ban. Let me add that the consumption of plant protection products on public land is about 1 per million of total consumption in Denmark, but it is clear that, like the rapporteur from the alternative, I would very much like to see consumption reduced. Secondly, on 21 April, I concluded a very ambitious agreement on plant protection products with a broad majority of the parliamentary parties. I am very pleased about that. The agreement provides funds to continue to monitor the consumption of plant protection products close to the public domain, which is why the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has started preparing an inventory of consumption in 2016. Once it has been completed, I have a good basis for the discussion I will take with the National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions on a possible supplement to the agreement in the public sector. A supplement to the agreement may be needed because a number of municipalities are challenged in their efforts to combat invasive species, such as giant bear claw, wrinkled rose and Japanese willow herb. In some cases this can be a difficult and expensive task without the use of plant protection products. Municipalities may also be challenged when it comes to the maintenance of sidewalks, roads and paths, which may be destroyed if the weeds are not effectively removed. Therefore, some municipalities have chosen to invest in new spraying equipment, such as: with camera and stain spraying, the weeds fight on the sidewalks with a very small consumption of plant protection products. We need to discuss whether there is a need for a supplement to the agreement so that municipalities and regions can combat some of the most problematic invasive species with small amounts of plant protection products, if necessary. This can also promote biodiversity. We can also look at the possibilities for new technology to further reduce consumption, and with the new agreement on plant protection products, funds are also provided to continue work on knowledge sharing and dialogue in the public sector. In this way, the good experiences in some of the municipalities can benefit others. Let me conclude by repeating that I am sympathetic to the intention of the proposal put forward. We have low consumption in Denmark on public land, and it may be even lower, but the municipalities must also have the opportunity to deal with weeds and invasive species that may threaten Danish biodiversity. Furthermore, I would also like to emphasise that the strict Danish authorisation system for the use of plant protection products ensures that we do not have authorised pesticides in Denmark which pose a health risk or a threat to our groundwater. That is why I believe that, as a starting point, we must continue with the good voluntary agreements that have already resulted in an impressive reduction, and I do not believe that there is a need to impose a ban on this issue, which is why the government is rejecting the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181942	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518181948	You always get sad when people say that they have sympathy for a proposal, because we all know what that means, namely that you do not support it. There have been a number of plans and so on. Before 2003, there was a plan for phasing out with a deadline. In 2007 it was turned into no deadline on it. Now we had before a proposal on rat control, which we are going to do something about. How long will it take us to do something about this? If the Minister now gets a new study on the consumption of spray poison on public areas and it then shows that it has increased, is the Minister ready to take action so that we can get rid of spray poison on public areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182035	Thank you for the question. I am extremely rare in dealing with hypothetical issues, and neither am I in this case. But I am annoyed that the author's party is not part of the agreement that has just been reached with a number of parties. Because it would have been a really good place to take responsibility for this area. Sometimes you can't get it a hundred percent as you want it, but it would've been really good to see the alternative in this kind of deal as well. I would have welcomed that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182105	I can then tell the Minister that, of course, we do not agree to agreements which will lead to more spray poison being put into groundwater. It goes without saying that no party should be involved. That is why I would like to ask again: what is it necessary for the Minister to take any real action on this? It is limited, yes, but spray poison is still being used on public areas. And if we want wild nature and want to live up to our commitments to biodiversity, then something must happen. That's not gonna happen by just smiling and watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182140	That is why we have both drawn up an action plan on biodiversity and an action plan on the use of plant protection products in Denmark. And I hope to see the alternative go along with such agreements in the future, because that could give it an interesting touch.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182158	There are no more brief comments, and I would like to welcome the first rapporteur, Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182205	Thank you. I would like to start by signing up for the alternative resolution, which clearly intends to move Denmark in a more green direction, and that is an ambition which the Social Democrats and I personally share, of course. In the Social Democratic Party, we fully agree with the alternative that spray poison should be reduced as much as possible. It can potentially adversely affect our health and our drinking water and our nature, so we fully share the ambition to limit pesticides in our nature, whether on public or private land. That is also why, in the negotiations on the new pesticides strategy, we have fought hard together with other good parties to pull the government in a more green direction. We have ensured that the new agreement will in future have stricter authorisation procedures for pesticides to be used in the so-called BNBOs, i.e. the drilling-related protection areas. We have strengthened groundwater protection with more and stricter controls and more thorough monitoring, and we have also solved the problem of prosulfocarb drifting onto organic fields. And to the extent that we didn't get it handled with new nozzles, we've created a system to compensate the ecologists. At the same time, the agreement means that research into the effects of pesticides on human health must be prioritised, because it is, of course, crucial to have the latest knowledge and that we ourselves are also helping to generate new knowledge in this important area. The motion for a resolution here specifically concerns spraying on public areas, and in the new pesticide strategy I have just mentioned it is inscribed that the objective of further reduction of pesticides on public areas must be maintained. I am, of course, satisfied with that and it also shows that the strategy we have negotiated is pushing in the same direction as the intention of the proposal. Of course, we would have liked this agreement on pesticides to have become even greener, but as most of us know, even the small green steps must be counted when the Folketing now has the composition and majority that it currently has. In relation to the motion for a resolution tabled, we in the Social Democratic Party lack a bid for costs and funding. It is clear from the observations made in the proposal that there are seven municipalities which have announced that they lack the resources to maintain pesticide-free operations, and that is a very good indicator that it is not a free proposal. At the same time, it can also be noted that the timing of the proposal is perhaps a little odd. In other words, we are a number of parties that have been sitting over with the Minister for a long time and negotiating in this particular area. And then it would be a little strange if we voted in favour of a proposal which deals with something of the same thing the following week. So I think we should use the opportunities available at a negotiating table to draw the government in a more green direction. And it is my very clear conviction that we have also succeeded in the negotiations on the pesticide strategy. I have great sympathy for the proposal, but as it stands at the moment, we cannot support it, although it has the right intentions and would draw Denmark in a more green direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182532	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182536	It is a good thing that the rapporteur is pleased with the agreement that has been reached. I am not going to go into that debate here, because we have had it in many places. With regard to this proposal, I would like to ask: if this autumn we have a new study on the consumption of pesticides on public areas which shows that there is an increase in consumption, should action be taken, or should we say that we have signed an agreement that we should continue with a limited consumption of pesticides?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182611	After all, we have reached an agreement in which we very clearly confirm that consumption on public land must also go down in the future. So that is quite obvious what is the political aim and, moreover, the aim of the agreement that we have made, namely that consumption should go down. So that is what I expect to see, also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182632	So the Social Democrats are willing to take some steps and put action behind the words if it is that we get a study in the autumn that shows that consumption has increased since the last survey in 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182647	Well, we will look at all new information and act on it if necessary. I do not want to hide the fact that if public consumption of spray charges on public land increases it will be contrary to my expectations. I think we have a serious situation, and then we must join forces with those parties that have a desire to change that trend. And it could also be appropriate to be with the alternative. That would seem to me to be a serious situation which would probably call for political action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182714	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, and welcome to Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518182723	Thank you. And also thank you for the proposal. At first sight, the position of the Danish People's Party is that we cannot support the proposal. I think this is an example of over-regulation so simple. Now I myself have been in municipal politics and it is quite clear that the strategy followed, at least in the municipal council in which I was sitting, was that we should use as little poison as possible. Then you can discuss whether you can go all the way down to zero, but you need as little poison as possible. Then there will be places and places, as the Minister also mentioned, some species that can actually be quite difficult to fight and where you use poison. And when I read the front page of the proposal, I also see it as if it is actually okay, as the author himself writes, where it is safe. There may be places where you have to use poison. There are also places where it is totally unacceptable to use poison. In the pesticide strategy that we have adopted together with the Social Democracy and the Government, I think we have just addressed it, not using poisons where it is not risk-free. However, I would also like to say that when public spending on public land is down to 1 per million of total consumption, it is to me to see a de minimis limit. I think it is so little that if we start saying that we should not, it is over-regulation, because I believe that in many places we are spending on combating these aggressive species. That is the one thing I want to say. The second point I want to make is that, of course, there will be an increase in costs if there are some places where you cannot use poison. There are some places where you drive around with such gas burners or burning machines on sidewalks etc. Of course, it is not pesticides, I am aware of that, but then you might have some CO2 I don't know what I can use or may use, because what is best in such a situation is the weed iron, I think, and there of course we have a number of unemployed people we might get to use. At least I use it diligently myself, I would say. It is a good method and it is fairly organic, and then it is cheap. It just hurts your back a little once in a while, but it's also good for you to use your back. I think this proposal is simply over-regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183004	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183007	I almost think that the rapporteur and I should take a trip with the weed iron one day, because it is quite cozy as well. Now the rapporteur says: I do not know what I can use anymore. But this is really what our nature needs, namely that on the smallest areas we can increase biodiversity and bring in a few more insects. After all, we have very, very limited areas that have not been exploited in Denmark, and that is actually why we are concerned about this. It may be very, very little, but it's still gone something, and it's again the small steps to do something good. So I would actually urge the rapporteur to go to committee with a slightly more open mind about it, because it may be a small step, but it is a sensible small step if we want some more nature, better biodiversity and some more insects in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183106	It is my very clear impression that when you spray, you typically do it on tile areas. You don't squirt on forest trails or somewhere you don't. But it's typical of tile areas, and you do, because you don't have to change tiles virtually every year, because it also costs a lot of money. I'd like to try to be open - minded and open - minded. I think so, since it's right that you should be. But I must also admit that I sometimes think that you see a danger and a risk where it is not. The pesticides we have today in Denmark are so regulated and so safe I think it is certainly no problem to use them. It is not pesticides that go into groundwater, and they are thus thoroughly tested. I'm not saying you need them everywhere. I certainly do not think so, and you can read it when you buy something like that, because then you can read that you can only use it on, for example. a sidewalk because it has to be a tiled area etc. etc. And, of course, you shouldn't pour the poison into a watercourse. I'm in on that too, but I don't think anyone does either, at least not public authorities at all. So there will be some places where you need some spray toxins, because we have bear claws, because we have some invasive species, and because we may not have 50,000 people who want to run around with a weed iron.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183233	The questioner. No brief remarks? No. Well, that's the ride to sir. Carsten Bach. No, that's not true. We're gonna have to have Mr. Knox first. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. We'd better take them in order of size. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183248	Thank you. In the Left we share the ambition that pesticides should be used in the most gentle way, both in relation to nature and people. That is why we also have very strict requirements for the use of pesticides and plant protection products. The purpose of the resolution is to phase out the use of pesticides on public areas. It is a proposal which will also create a lot of other problems, in which it would not in itself be dangerous to use plant protection products. In many cases it is also the only possible, for example. in relation to the control of giant bear claws, where plant protection products or spray poisons may be the only effective solution. Then we have just heard from the Minister's statement that the total consumption of these funds on public land is one thousand per cent of total consumption, and this clearly underlines that this is a clear drop in the total consumption of funds. So, thankfully, it's going the right way. By imposing a ban on pesticides on public areas, we are depriving employees in municipalities and regions of the right to carry out the assessment themselves specifically on the ground. It is also doubtful how the environment, I had almost said, will get it in various situations. Will it just get better in any case? It's not safe. We do not have to decide everything here at Christiansborg, and there are many decisions that can be made much better locally when you are in the situation in the individual municipality or at the place where the problems may be, including the individual employee, who is wearing the shoe and can see where it is printing. A circular like this with a new, perhaps well-meaning idea does not always make life easier for the employees around the municipalities, where, as I have said, you can make the decisions yourself. So we think it is a good thing that we are dealing with the local issue, and that is why we are rejecting the resolution before us. I should also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183507	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Erling Bonnesen from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183513	Well, I was just sitting there thinking back. Now, of course, we have taken a couple of cases together in this Chamber so far, and I hear that it has a lot to do with trusting people to make their own assessments. And in relation to the public procurement we had in the past, it was also something with the municipalities. But we have also just had a case about rat control, where it was important that we decided it from in here. I also agreed with the rapporteur on this point. Then the rapporteur cannot say why it does not apply exactly here, where we have something that is spray poison that destroys the biodiversity we can get in small places; which destroys our groundwater and so on.? Why is it that we cannot intervene here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183558	When we look at the development that has actually taken place, where consumption has fallen overall on these lands to represent one thousandth of total consumption, then we are talking about a decrease in the consumption of funds. This is a positive development. We might then ask why, when there are already positive developments in this area, new additional requirements should be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183621	Does this mean that if positive developments have not continued at the same rate, when there is a new report on the consumption of pesticides for public areas, is it prepared to take action against this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183637	Now we have to be careful not to deal with hypothetical situations, but at least we have been able to see that the consumption of these lands, which we are talking about, has fallen so much that at this stage, as the Minister has just explained, it is a total of one thousand tonnes of total consumption. I think we can agree quickly on this is a positive development. And then there is no reason for us to introduce new bureaucratic rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183701	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. And welcome to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518183710	The unit list fully agrees that spray poisons should be removed as a tool for weed control in public areas. Already in 1995, 21 years ago, we tabled our first resolution on this subject. It was called B 74 and read: Parliament called on the government to ensure that spraying of all public land, forests, soils, parks and other plant containing pesticides would cease immediately and that lease agreements on publicly owned land would be terminated for renegotiation, subject to pesticide-free operation. Last year, we tabled a motion for a resolution banning the sale and use of Roundup and other herbicides with the active substance glyphate for commercial use and for public use. The Enhedslisten has continuously worked politically to remove toxic substances both in public areas and in agriculture, and this is an effort that has taken place both in the Folketing and in municipalities. As the comments on this motion for a resolution show, it is, after all, a struggle that is waving back and forth, and the question is whether it is not time for a concrete plan to be drawn up for everyone to remove pesticides on public land. However, I am somewhat nervous about leaving the back door open, which is part of the proposal, that poisons are still being used away, where it is not considered indefensible in terms of safety. Such exceptions tend to become normal. We can see that many municipalities have completely phased out the use of pesticides. Let us take the step to the full. I hope that we can find more parties that will write a report that will help ensure that this debate goes further. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that it does not include land leased by public authorities. We very much disagree with that phrase. There are, in fact, a number of municipalities which own agricultural land and which lease it out ecologically. This applies, among other things, to: Aalborg Municipality and Odense Municipality. In Aarhus, farmland is leased out under pesticide-free conditions. So there are some municipalities that can handle the need to lease out on ecological conditions. Then there are some who try to ignore this, that it is only 1 per thousand of the total spray poisons and out there, but at the same time it is some areas, for example. around schools and day care centres where there are many people; where there are children who crawl around on the grass and who are not to be exposed to pesticides. So I don't think you should neglect this problem just because it's only 1 per million of the total intake of pesticides. And then it also has a meaning what the public does; whether citizens can see that the municipality is running around with the poison spray. There is, in fact, a preventive effort to set the good example. That is why this proposal to stop using pesticides on public land is a good one. This is something that, although there is no majority in the Danish Parliament, you can go into your municipal election campaign again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184023	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184029	Thank you. I was almost invited up a little earlier than expected, but now I'm here. With this motion for a resolution we are in some way somewhat behind a law of nature, which I have mentioned a little earlier in the House today, that every political level is constantly trying to absorb or fight for decision-making powers for other political levels. I would like to say once again that I and the Liberal Alliance think that this is an unfortunate development, because we in the Liberal Alliance actually believe that the Folketing should not decide in detail how, for example, we in the Liberal Alliance. municipalities must fight weeds. We believe that this should be a decentralised decision. In addition, many good arguments have been put forward earlier in the debate on this motion for a resolution not to support the motion for a resolution, among others. Very recently, we have reached a very broad political agreement on the pesticide strategy forward-looking, which unfortunately the authors are not part of. That agreement also addresses a very effective and, moreover, very restrictive and perhaps the most restrictive authorisation system in the world, which ensures that there is no risk of health or groundwater with the use of pesticides that are taking place today. We also have a very high tax that helps to reduce the level and to keep the level down. Then the proportion of consumption mentioned in the motion for a resolution is a very, very small part, and it has been and is falling sharply. Finally, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance, as the other partners in the pesticide strategy mentioned, naturally sees a reduction in the consumption of pesticides and also in public areas, but we also need to look at the possible negative consequences of the alternative to weed control with pesticides. It could, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work. negative effects on the climate, etc. With these words, I would just like to say in conclusion that the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184307	Not quite to the end, because there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184311	I understand that the rapporteur is unfortunately saying that the alternative is not included in the spray-poison agreement that has been made, because it would have been good. We don't get it because it's not a good deal. What this is all about is how we get rid of the spray. We can take a step on public land. Then I can hear that again we are interfering at other political levels, and that is why I have just one small question: is this the case in general, or is this true, for example. Not when it comes to rat seals, when we are interfering at the various political levels?
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184348	Now the motion for a resolution on the control of rats was a minor amendment in a decree, and it was not a ban, because the Liberal Alliance does not go, it should also be mentioned in this context, in favour of such a general ban, but only regulation at national political level when necessary. And then, in fact, I believe that it is called an agreement on pesticide strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184417	It may be called that, but it's about spray poison. I just think it's interesting when we choose to go in and do something and do nothing. First of all, it was also doubted that this was a problem at all, since only 1 per thousand of consumption was on public land. But if it is so little, it is not a major intervention. So I am actually simply making the point that it is a terrible thing right here that we interfere at different levels when we actually have a problem that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184454	As I explained before, I and the Liberal Alliance believe that we should only make the necessary regulation, and certainly not introduce the kind of ban that the motion for a resolution lays down here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184510	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach, and welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184517	In the SF, we are positive about the intentions behind the proposal. We agree that it is a problem when some municipalities are now again routinely using pesticides for something other than as a last resort to invasive species, such as. Bear claw. That is why we could have used the alternative with us to be on the battlefield of the pesticide agreement, among other things. it appears that the voluntary agreement on the use of pesticides on public areas must be assessed with the main objective of ensuring the continued phasing-out of consumption. There is still an outstanding amount in relation to the use of pesticides on fortified areas and SF cannot accept the routine use of pesticides on those areas. There are certainly municipalities that think it would be nice if the voluntary agreement were to open up the possibility of using poison instead of machinery and knuckle fat for economic reasons. If that is the case, we in the SF will oppose it. Exceptionally, pesticides can be used against invasive species when other methods fail. Pesticides could also be used for safety reasons, for example. against larvae that break down vegetation on dykes. However, the routine use of pesticides must be phased out. It is worth considering whether to legislate in this area. We would like to be involved in discussing this if a sensible agreement cannot be reached with the municipalities and the regions. But as the Folketing is composed today, I cannot see that there is a majority in favour of it. Instead, we must therefore focus on where the problem lies and whether there are some places where the economy is put above health, the environment and groundwater and ignore voluntary agreements. So, both on behalf of the SF and the Radicals, I would say that we share the same intention in this way, but there are a number of things that we need to discuss further with each other in terms of how we can go further in this direction, and we need to keep an eye on the fact that the voluntary agreements that are being proposed actually lead to the development we would like to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184736	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, so we now have the opportunity to welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518184746	Thank you. And thank you again for a sympathetic debate. After all, I am sorry that, after discussing this last point on Thursday evening, we cannot go out of the Chamber cheering and say that we actually agreed that we should get pesticides away from public areas. There are several who have challenged the fact that the alternative is not part of the agreement that they themselves have helped to conclude, and there I can just tell you in confidence that we are, of course, in agreements we feel that something good is coming out of and that we are not with the agreements that we think are bad. It's just a little secret between you and me that this is the way it is. What is important is that we do something about pesticides. We have some public areas where we can actively do something. To Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I would like to say that this is in fact one of the attempts to do something pragmatic and thinking that we could actually meet in the Folketing. That is why we have written in the things that Enhedslisten contested, in other words on the conditions in cases where it is safe and on the leased-out areas. It is actually because we tried to get a proposal together that we thought the Folketing would nod yes to, because it makes sense, because there have been many plans for how we had phased out pesticides from public areas, and because we thought that we should now take the final step. But in any case, I would like to thank you for the debate, and then I look forward very much to the new study on consumption which is coming, and I can at least promise that the alternative will take up this matter again if the study does not show that we are now down to a thousand percent of a thousand. Because that is the way we should go and we should get rid of it, because, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned, it is also in the vicinity of schools, kindergartens, etc., and that is so thanks for the debate it is going to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518185027	You're welcome, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170518185041	Then there is only one thing left for the Folketing to decide, namely that members of the Folketing, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF), have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the tightening of tax legislation and criminal law on tax structures in grey areas etc. B 111). I should like to ask if anyone would like to include this motion for a resolution. There is no one who does, and then the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Then there is no more to be done in this meeting, other than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 19 May 2017, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
