ParlaMint-DK_20170228130024	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130030	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130040	Thank you. I would like to address the fact that a year ago we set up a small group to look at how to create better ways for youth education • a group that has today submitted their recommendations, something I have been looking forward to for a long time. Because we are faced with a rather great challenge: the challenge that, although the vast majority of young people are taking an education, doing well, having the courage and hope of the future, unfortunately there are also some who are falling through. Despite the fact that I dare say that everyone's good will to help young people on the edge has not been sufficiently achieved. We must all bear a responsibility for this, because the figures have been stagnant for a very long time. 7 years after the students have left primary school, one in five young people has neither a baccalaureate nor a staff letter nor a work • every five years because they have not really learned to read or count, even though they have gone to school for 9 or 10 years. Proper professional qualifications are essential for me to be able to move socially; we must bring all young people with us. That is also why we have made a school reform, but we are not in the end. It's a matter for the government, and for me, it's a matter of heart. And what one can well say is that today the young people and their parents are encountering a ceiling of incalculable offers, and those who may in fact have the most difficulty are faced with the most complex offers, a kind of concrete ceiling, which we must have shattered. We need to take a new approach. Today, the expert group has presented a number of well-founded, ambitious, also controversial recommendations; recommendations which are based on the needs of young people; not in the jungle of institutions and schemes, but in the needs of young people; and which recognise that some may first have a job and then later a training. The important thing is that immediately after primary school they get started with something meaningful. All young people must be included, and it must be quite clear where the social responsibility for this task lies. I hope that there will be a broad-based debate following the recommendations of the expert group. In the government, we agree that responsibility must be placed firmly and unequivocally with the municipalities. We also agree with the expert group that there is a need for a completely new preparatory offer for young people under the age of 30 who have not completed youth training; a new training offer to replace the existing schemes for young people: production schools, VUC, dyslexic education, basic vocational training, free vocational schools, etc. etc.; a well thought-out offer which gives greater coherence and clarity. And we agree with the expert group that the new preparatory offer should be placed in a new institutional form. So far so good. Now, like others, we need to look at the recommendations, and the government will then publish a concrete reform proposal later this spring and call the parties for negotiations. And along the way, we will discuss with the municipalities how we help the many young people who today are skewing into adult life. That effort is, after all, part of a broader agenda. Denmark is the country of opportunity, and it is going well in Denmark • employment is increasing, unemployment is falling • but we need all Danes to seize the opportunities. When we want to set aside 0.5 billion. kr. It is also in line with the recommendation of the group of experts on turbo-cycles in education that more than three years are spent on schools which have the least well-founded students. Now we are again addressing the trialogue negotiations once the collective bargaining process is hopefully concluded in a positive way, and then this time the theme will be better adult and continuing training, it is on the basis of the joint commitment of the trade union movement, employers and government that we will not lose anyone on the road. So it is also a dimension on the same agenda. And when, also when the collective bargaining is concluded, we invite a partnership on the labour market of the future, it is with the ambition to prepare everyone to seize the opportunities of the ongoing, rapid and technological developments we are witnessing, because we have an ambition to make everyone the winners of the future. I am very concerned that this is a success. I think this is the most important task we have at all, and I am very pleased with the recording that has come to that debate, and would like to invite the political parties of the Danish Parliament to take part in this debate and therefore today also to give the prior invitation that we will be inviting in the course of the spring for concrete negotiations on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130559	Thank you. Then we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130618	Thank you. I would like to start by signing that, in line with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, we will find a way to ensure that all young people get on with training. So we can quickly agree both on the need for it and on the fact that we are embarking on that work. This is in line with what I would like to ask the Prime Minister today, namely two things. First of all, it is about the housing tax and its financing, and then, before we get that far, it is actually education. So that way things are going to be very good together. We have today put forward a programme with seven concrete proposals on how the question of the shortage of labour which already appears in many Danish companies can be answered here from Christiansborg. I am delighted that it is the last winter day that spring is coming. We should also like to have that applied to the Danish economy and to the Danish companies. Although in many places it is actually going very well to produce good Danish goods, we can see from the GDP figures, which have just come, that growth is still too low. Our great concern is that we are approaching a situation where Danish companies cannot actually be allowed to grow as much as they actually have the potential for, because we simply lack good Danish labour. We have very good Danish labour, but many also need to be allowed to improve their skills. We have a goal that more unskilled people should be allowed to become skilled, and we have a wish that some of our skilled students can get out and start working in companies now that there is a shortage of labour while finishing their studies. From our point of view, we have come to the second generation reforms, which are not about the supply of labour, but which are about ensuring that Danish employees can cope with competition, can be able to improve their skills and that companies have access to the labour needed. So my question is quite open but also very specific: will the government help us to reach a broad political agreement in this spring to avoid bottlenecks and thus to ensure that there is the well-educated Danish labour force that we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130835	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130837	Thank you. Well, that is actually on our programme, because we have an agreement in the wake of two well-executed tripartite agreements, which we managed to revive again, that is, this institution that collapsed under the former Socialist Government. There we have an agreement that we are going to start a third process, which is precisely what this is all about. I have read the paper from the Social Democratic Party today, and I can see that at least 2-3 of the headings in heading form one hundred percent match what we have agreed with the parties that we are going to discuss. How do we create it just as an example of a new and more flexible and more demand-driven VEU system? We will start discussions with the social partners on this, as soon as they report clearly after collective bargaining. And I could very well imagine that in the wake of the process with the social partners, there will also be almost unthinkable other courses of Christiansborg. So I would like to say a positive word about that overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130951	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228130952	See how easy it can be when we pull the work clothes. We now have an agreement to improve the adult education system, primarily for the sake of Danish employees, but also to ensure that Danish companies can grow and thus create wealth for the rest of society. Let us then move on to the next debate, which I hope, in fact, we will be able to work just as constructively and hopefully also with a result that will benefit a great many people. After all, we are discussing housing tax with the government, and I would like to begin by repeating what I have said on other occasions, namely that we are hoping for a broad political agreement across the political centre, which can provide security for the property owners and security around one, it must be said, very important part of the Danish economy. The negotiations are moving a little slowly. I still hope for a broad agreement, and that is what we still want from us. But I have to ask the Prime Minister today: when will we and the Danes see how the government intends to finance a new housing tax system? Because as things are right now, quite a lot of billions have been promised to this area, and there can be no 32 billion, as anyone knows. kr., without anyone else having to pay the bill. So when are we gonna know how the government plans to finance the housing tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131114	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131116	Thank you. That was a specific question, and I can now give a concrete answer as to when it will be known. This is done before the next meeting of the Ministry of Finance, which was convened on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131124	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131126	That's good. And if the next meeting of the Ministry of Finance is on Thursday, and we can now write Tuesday in the calendar, I dare almost assume that the government has also found out how it should be financed, and that is why we might as well get started on that discussion here in connection with Question Time. I think there are a lot of people who are interested in it, because when 32 billion are promised. kr. Somebody's gonna pay the bill. And since we are so specific today and the questions are being answered so quickly, let us finish this off with a very specific question: who is going to finance it? Is that the tenants, is that the green check? Who's gonna pay for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131205	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131207	Thank you. I'll answer the question I'm asked about. Mrs Mette Frederiksen has overlooked the fact that between Tuesday and Thursday is Wednesday, so to clarify my first attempt to give a very concrete answer to what was asked, namely when, then: tomorrow, Wednesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131222	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131228	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. After all, it is extremely important that we have good initiatives that ensure our young people good education and also ensure that everyone has the opportunity to do so. So we would very much like to come back to that. But what I had planned to ask questions about here today in Question Time was another topic, and it was, of course, because last night, when I saw the news broadcasts, I was delighted that yesterday the Prime Minister had taken the trip to Aarhus, or perhaps a little west of Aarhus, where he helped to inaugurate the new emergency hospital in Skejby. After all, it is a matter which, I think, has occupied both of us for quite a long time, i.e. that we will have a hospital structure suitable for the future we have ahead of us and which is also geared towards success when it comes to helping people who become ill. What is a very specific concern we have and which I would like to discuss with the Prime Minister is whether there are sufficient beds in these new hospitals that are being built and with this new hospital structure. Because what we have been able to see in relation to the new structure is that beds are being laid down very quickly. I guess we're talking about something that looks like one fifth of the number of beds we've had in the past, as in 2020 or maybe it's already about to apply now.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, we have a situation where they are needed. So our fear is simply that, if you cannot pay for the number of beds that are needed, then patients, especially elderly patients and medical patients, are being pushed home too quickly. It may be up to a weekend when you have to empty the hospital halls and if the municipalities are not prepared to accept these citizens, they will fall down between the different chairs of the system. We cannot have that, and we simply need to find a solution to that. So I thought that now that the Prime Minister had visited Skejby yesterday, he was completely dressed up to discuss this particular issue today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131437	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131439	Thank you. I'm certainly dressed, but I'm probably not dressed down to the last detail, because it's been a few years since I've had such a complete and detailed insight into the Danish healthcare system. Because we have, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also rightly points out, followed this area for a number of years, and I will try to answer the question, but it was actually a pleasure to be present at yesterday's dedication. Because it is not always the experience of having been in politics so long and continuously that one can actually see the fruit of one's own decisions, and I could almost undo Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to have been with yesterday, but he'll find another apartment. Because it was because we made courageous decisions through the '00s that we were freed up those amounts and that we, among other things, were freed up. could create a Quality Fund of 25 billion. kr., which has given a boost to the hospital building, as we have not seen in the history of Denmark before. These are the biggest buildings since Christian IV and they have even been financed as we see at the moment, and this is going to be a promise. I mean, these new wards in the vascular ward, which I saw yesterday, where there is a perfect standard of living for relatives to stay overnight, will be a qualitative boost. It will create greater security for patients and more security. The question then is, of course, whether it is properly dimensioned, in other words quantitatively, and I really think it would be useful to have a discussion with the Minister for Health on the approach to the new hospitals. Because there is something about adjusting capacity while building out and making the right one into one? In relation to the capacity that remains when we are done, it is the case, according to what has been said to me, that it will correspond to what is the expected need, when we consider what age development is in our society, but, moreover, it also lays the foundations for what we have seen backwards, namely that there is a development in our treatments, which is, of course, moving towards an average of fewer and fewer bed days as a patient. So I stand at the moment with the view that we will have a capacity that at least suits a normal situation. Then I think and now I see that the President is standing up, so I am about to conclude that it will probably always be the case that there will occasionally be systems coming under pressure, i.e. at pandemics and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131705	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131707	I am no less looking forward to visiting Skejby Hospital on Friday and inspecting the premises that the Prime Minister did yesterday at the inauguration. It is clear that it will give the patients who are being helped there a leap forward. That is not the discussion we have at all, because we agree on that. Over a few decades, it seems that more than twice as many people are over 80 years old. We know that there are many elderly people in need of help. In this situation, we are simply concerned that, if you do not have the sufficient number of beds in the hospital system as a whole, you will find yourself in a situation where you push these people home so quickly that the municipalities are not prepared to help them. Then they just fall between two chairs in our system, at least as long as the regions are there. We can also discuss this. What matters is whether the municipalities are actually dressed. It is no use standing as a doctor and having to find out whether to prescribe a patient, depending on which municipality he comes from and not on whether they are really ready. We need to be sure that the municipalities are. If you want to operate with such a low number of beds as you now dispose of, you simply have to get turbo on the discussion about this coherent hospital system. You know, you gotta go out into the municipal part and help people there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131826	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228131828	I agree very much with the latter. I don't feel like we've talked past each other, but I think we might be talking in the same place. I would therefore very much like to invite you to have a dialogue with the Minister for Health on this, because I am not actually dressed properly. But I take the view that, with the population forecasts we have and the knowledge we have and the considerations we have about the effectiveness of medical care and technology development, etc., we have a hospital capacity that matches the needs of a normal situation. But, of course, some conditions are attached. And those conditions are exactly what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl now goes on to say that there is coherence in all our health services, i.e. that the interaction between the hospital and the close health services in the municipalities works. It works really well in some places and it is challenged elsewhere. This is a debate we have had many times before, and we have also taken a number of decisions together which should make it work even better. The whole idea that the municipalities are co-funding in our hospital system originated in order to give them an incentive. I don't think we're done with that assignment. I am not prepared to point out precisely today what the next step should be in the development of the close health provision. However, I think that this is a very obvious subject for continued discussion. I also expect continued cooperation between the government and the Danish People's Party. It is clear that if it is to work in a future with more older people even though the elderly are on average fresher, some of them become ill and, although on average they have fewer bed days, it requires municipalities to be able to catch patients when they are lifted out of bed. They shouldn't fall out of bed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132014	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132016	But we have taken initiatives over the last year and a half to add extra to the medical patient in particular, as it is so finely called, which is, after all, one of the groups that have the problem of overcrowding very much in their lives. And I think it is crucial that we continue with that. It's clear that you can always argue about the dimensioning you make of these new hospitals: What comes from what? Because when I've visited Gødstrup Hospital at Herning, which is being built and it's going to be an amazing hospital, I've still recorded that you've had a few spare rounds, where you've just had to tighten your belt a little bit, and you've found that the number of beds you're eventually going to be dimensioned to, and which is a little smaller than what you thought from the beginning, is exactly the right number of beds compared to the need. And then you can say, what really came of what? It is clear that if it is a real fear that we are actually going too far in terms of giving the flexibility that the Prime Minister also mentioned a little about having to be in relation to a particular situation, in hospitals, it is either the overcrowding situation that has to cope with it, or it must be done by helping people to a greater extent at home in the municipality. And the last thing is the crucial thing, it's the best thing, instead of continuing to lie in the hallways or in rooms that aren't geared at all to it or fit for it. So I would like to thank you for the commitment that this is something we will come back to and that we will continue the fight to ensure this coherent health care for the benefit of Danish patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132144	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132145	I can do that in brief, for Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has, of course, drawn the conclusion, namely that we must continue to work together on this. And there are two aspects. One is to make sure that the municipalities are ready, i.e. during this printing phase. And the second is if you look at the figures ▪ that you work intently to avoid unnecessary admissions. For despite the fact that it has been a focus area for many, many years, there is still a difference in the way you do it, the municipality of the municipality and the region of the region. And, of course, we must avoid a situation in which people are unnecessarily hospitalized. The other side of having been in politics long enough to be able to see the fruits of your own work is that you also see the same problems coming over and over again. Well, it's the same problems that come back to you. And if you're honest, we probably never get the ideal situation where there's nothing more to ask about where we can just say: that's how everything works perfectly. So it takes a sustained focus. It does not take away from me, nor does it take away from the questioner, that in these years, both because of decisions we made in the 00s, which freed the money, but also rather courageously the decision to concentrate its use on 16 projects, we are currently seeing some fantastic boosts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132308	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132318	I am going to ask the Prime Minister some questions about the school area, which is why it was quite nice to hear the opening remark from the Prime Minister about the report that has just been made on youth education. I am absolutely convinced that the Prime Minister and myself have the same ambition to have our children and young people dressed as well as possible for the future that will be theirs. So it will be exciting to see the presentation for youth education. We would also really, very much like to contribute to and engage in a discussion on this. What I'm going to focus on is not youth education, but primary education. The alternative came in our own eyes with an ambitious proposal last week with 23 concrete suggestions on how to get a better primary school, where the thinking is that everything starts and ends with the learner. This means that we must have a much more interesting, relevant and meaningful primary school. In order to create a primary school which our children and young people deserve and which the future deserves, what we really are aware of is how we can free the primary school, that is. give the individual primary schools much higher degrees of freedom to carry out the priorities appropriate to their local environment and to the children and young people who attend the schools concerned. That is why my first question to the Prime Minister is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the individual primary school can be given a greater degree of governance of their own priorities, thereby also showing the confidence that I think we should show towards the employees we have and the management that is at the local primary school. So will the Prime Minister help set the primary school free?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132514	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132519	Let me start somewhere else, 'cause is it free or free from something? In any case, I think that we need the primary school to be free of a Christiansborg, which all the time, I had almost said, interferes with its conditions. It then leads to the answer to it with freedom to what. The main concern of the government is to get tranquillity around the primary school, because calm and stability, I think, are among the prerequisites for the individual teacher to develop his teaching with pupils, parents and management, so that we do not have a constant debate about whether we now have the right primary school and things like that. Therefore, it is important for the government that we acknowledge the agreements that have been made on a new school reform and give the municipalities peace and quiet to implement it. Having said that, the government has also said a few other things, namely that we are prepared to use the provisions of school law in relation to giving freedom it could be in connection with governance and other forms of governance and, most recently, the Minister has announced that the government wants to carry out attempts at 50 specific schools with a different form of organisation of teaching time. There is now a natural dialogue with the school owners, that is to say the municipalities, about this and then the precise experimental framework will be established. That is probably how I can answer the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132700	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132702	Not surprisingly, I was most pleased with the last half of the answer: the ambition to give schools free and, in this case, 50 schools. We would like it to be all schools, but that is certainly a start. The reason for this is of course a conviction that you cannot run down such a one size fit all over all schools, because it is different children and young people, and there are different local frameworks. So the more we at least from the Alternative can go in and support the release of primary school, the better it is. My second question concerns some of what we have also looked at and would like to see, namely a dispute with the national tests. And it is not just because we mean it ourselves, but because there are more and more feedback that the national tests, first of all, in terms of content, in terms of what they measure, are not good enough; they are too imprecise, and they cannot be used as educational tools. Secondly, it is developing, in our view, a culture of competition between schools. I know that, too, is a debate that has been conducted internally in the Left, and there have been Leftmen out thinking something about it. But does the Prime Minister agree that we may have to give the national tests free, so it is voluntary if you want to join them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132827	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228132829	No, I do not agree with that, and I also think in some way that there is an equation that does not go up. Because if you want to create freedom in the processes that I share in principle, and now we are not talking about the school, now we are talking about the approach to the whole public sector, where I kind of attach great importance to the fact that in the actual organisation of the elderly care or teaching in the classroom, or whatever it may be, it is the person with the professional skills who organises things, driven by commitment and insight and professionalism, because that is what I think you are going to do the longest on the basis of, in return, that you are on guard over the results. That's the way it is in my optics. So if you want to have less process control, you have to be more prepared to have some goals that you control. This cannot be the case when, moreover, schools make pupils for the whole of society, that you just completely free, school for school, decide what it is appropriate for you to do when you leave the 9th grade. We have a challenge, and I mentioned it at the beginning of this Question Time, not with those who are doing well, but with the group of students who are falling through. And I think we'd fail if we didn't have any national targets. That said, and you have to talk to the Minister of Education about this matter, as in all other areas, you have to keep on visiting them and see if this is the right way to do it and whether there is something that needs to be adjusted. President Yes, please!). I don't have detailed insights to make myself a judge of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133005	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133007	I think the Prime Minister misunderstood my question, because we fully agree that there must be national objectives. What I question is the way we use the national tests, which have to be carried out 12 times during a student's journey through primary school. That is where there is a marked criticism of the relevance of the way in which tests are carried out. So it was not the national targets, but the national tests I asked for. The third question comes from the members of the Alternative, and this time we are going out into the world. This is something we have actually discussed before and on which I myself have also asked questions: what is the government's assessment of what is happening in the United States with a new American president? What is the very specific question is: has recent political developments in the United States led the government to consider investing more in cooperation with Europe and less in cooperation with the United States? As I have said, it is Members who have put it here, but personally I also feel that what we see as Trump is significant. I am not going to repeat all the criticisms I would like to make, but that is what Members have asked the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133116	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133118	Thank you. Very briefly, just to finish the other one: yes, yes, we can agree that we have some goals, but I will then also stand by the fact that when you have some goals, it is also good that you have a process that ensures that you check that the targets are met. Because if you don't, it'll just be a statement of intent. In relation to the second question, yes, we need closer EU cooperation. This is not derived from the coverage of the Danish press day by day of what is happening in the White House, although it is intensive; it is a number of other developments around the globe, but of course also that we apparently have an American administration that puts America first. So, I must welcome that in this context, the public hearing that was held here in the house over the weekend. I would like to thank the chairman of the Danish Parliament and the European Committee for this. I have had the opportunity to look at the debriefing from the public hearing, when it comes to the fact that when people have spent a whole day at Christiansborg to discuss it here, there are in fact more people who are just approaching the conclusion that lies in the question, so that we probably need EU cooperation more now than we might have been telling each other years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133302	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133310	I would like to start where the Prime Minister just left off and thank you for the last debate we had. I think it was a good thing that the Prime Minister said so clearly that it would not be with him as Prime Minister that we should have a vote on Danish EU membership. And that is important because it is a debate that has been held by the largest bourgeois party and the party that the government is dependent on the support of those who want such a vote. That is why I was pleased to get such a clear answer from the Prime Minister and also more clear than what I received in the Question Time a few weeks ago. It is not, of course, because I disagree with the fact that there is spring in the air, or even when you look at the Danish economy, but I think there may be a risk that you will miss out on what challenges we have ahead of us. When we look at the last time, it really went well in the Danish economy, I think most of us can see that perhaps there was a tendency that we did not see in time that there was a need to make decisions if we were not to make ourselves vulnerable to new crises. I have such a bit of an idea that we're at the same type of ford now. Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned earlier the bottleneck problems which are evident in some parts of the Danish labour market and will certainly become even clearer in the coming months and years even more places. There is concern on my part whether or not we have become wise of harm, if I may say so, whether we are going to see that some of the major issues are seriously addressed. I would also like to say that we are quite ready to deal with the young people who fall through the education system, as the Prime Minister also mentioned today. But I also think we need to be honest about what kind of backdrop we are talking about when we ask our education sector to do a better job with those who have the most difficulty. Because in the absence of willingness to invest in education, all the vocational education and training in the country, all the colleges, all the hf-education programmes now sit and plan how to make the economy work together. And what is the feedback I get from the savings agreed by, among others, the Commission. The government and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in connection with the police settlement is that it is precisely the extra effort towards the students who need what smokes when they are forced to reduce. By 2020, a regular hf has to do too well 80 per cent. of the budget they had last year. There is just my question: do we not also have to find ways of creating room for manoeuvre to invest in education if we want to have ambitions to have an education system that can accommodate more young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133548	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133550	The short answer to that question is: Yes. That is precisely why the government has a reform ambition. For the whole of the first part of the question, I very, very much agree with the fact that things are actually going very well. Employment is high, unemployment is low, only 2 years out of the last 40 we had a lower unemployment rate than we are now experiencing, and that is the 2 years, right up to the point where everything burned together, so to speak, in the mid-00s. So it is part of being responsible to make the decisions that ensure that it can continue to go well. And it's all about several things, but it's one of them. to ensure that the labour force is available. Part of the agenda is the one we have been talking about today, namely to train the workforce we already have, to take care that the Danish labour force of the future, the young people it takes a few years, from the start of kindergarten classes, until you make a debut on the labour market, get a better start than those that preceded them. Another dimension is to be open to people coming in from outside. Here I should not hide the fact that I have been sorry that the Social Democrats have taken the lead in making it harder for qualified foreign workers to come to Denmark. And then there is a lot about creating a greater supply of work. And the government has that agenda. We then have in connection with the formation of government and the fact that, right now and here, there are collective bargaining, where I think it would be unwise in every way to invite political negotiations on retirement age, and what else one might imagine, put some things on hold, but these are things we are going to return to. The same applies to SU. And we have the ambition of the policy that we would like to see pursued in Denmark to free money that can also be invested in competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133737	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133739	It is, of course, the responsibility of the government, what must be paused and what must be on the agenda. I think we can only see a dull trend, and that is that we have made a vocational training reform, and it has been accompanied by a massive downgrading of the area, which means that savings are being planned. We have made a high school reform which has been accompanied by re-prioritisation, which means that in high schools, both reform and budgets have to be implemented in all places. And now we are faced with having to look at the preparatory offers. I do not know where the Prime Minister is looking to find the resources to invest in that area, but there is a risk that reform will again be carried out here, and then it will be accompanied by ongoing savings, so that more is demanded, but for less. If you really wanted to take on some of the challenges we face in terms of social mobility and help some of the young people to a better start in life than the one they have been given, then you have to start very early, even earlier than the nursery class. It's just that there's gonna be institutions sitting around trying to get an extra penny to reach a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133903	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228133904	Thank you for the edifying lecture that I think should be given to some of the parties that you have an ambition to support in any future formation of government after a new election. Because you don't really have to keep it for me. In other words, I can see the contexts that are going well, but if it is to continue to go well, it is based on some assumptions, and there is a risk that in one year to one and a half or two Denmark will get into real bottleneck problems, which will cause the momentum in the economy to dry out. And then we have failed our responsibility. That is why I am quite insistent on sticking to an agenda that we need to make some adjustments. But it is not enough for there to be a majority in the Chamber who claps every time I say anything. You can start by not going in reverse. I mean, you go in reverse when you, for example, go in reverse. makes it harder for skilled foreign workers to come to Denmark, as the government has had to experience that some have adopted around us. I am just saying that in view of the fact that there are currently collective bargaining, it is not right now and here in this month that we must have negotiations at Christiansborg about withdrawal or SU or other things. But it is a subject that we come back to, because we have to, I think, responsibly fight us a greater margin of manoeuvre than what we otherwise have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134030	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134031	Yeah, but here I think there's a dacapo coming from the zeros. Because if we have repeatedly tried to hold the then government responsible for what was going on in the zeros, we have, of course, received the same wisdom as the Prime Minister has already started today, that is to say that it was the opposition's fault. It wasn't the government's fault. It wanted all the right things so badly, but it could not be done because you had an opposition that did not want to do yours or would not want to do it. I am happy to measure the results achieved when the Radical Left was last in government, including the measures taken in the labour market and the investments made in education and the future. But I also believe that it will be too thin-legged when the Prime Minister is already taking up responsibility for not achieving what is considered necessary to anyone other than himself. After all, it is the government's responsibility to organise the work in such a way that we reach the goal, and otherwise we have to throw the towel in the ring. What I am saying is that if we are really going to do something for the next generation and for those young people who are having difficulty, it is no use repeating what was done with the reform of vocational training, namely to put it into the sea with massive savings, and the reform of high school in exactly the same way. If we are to achieve something for young people, we also need to provide a means of action to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134143	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134144	Well, I think I understand what Mr. Morten Østergaard says, probably because we're on the fourth round now, but that's fine. And I'm not throwing away any responsibility. Well, I'm just seeing what things look like. Everyone will remember that in the autumn of the government for which I was previously Prime Minister, I put forward an overall plan which, as such, attacked many of the things asked if one comes down like this behind all the general polemics, namely the whole question of how to ensure the future of the Danish economy in all facets, including an increase in the amount available for investment in infrastructure or the increase in competence or other. We did not achieve this, we have to admit, and now we have a new government working on the same objectives and taking things in a logical order, namely that we now have a housing tax agreement, hopefully in the next few weeks, which can form the basis for taking a new look at the future. As a direct follow-up to that, I must promise the questioner that we would like to invite discussions that are precisely intended here, namely how we can increase the room for manoeuvre so that, after a political discussion, we can afford to invest at all, whether in competences or infrastructure or otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134301	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134318	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the President on his late birthday. Then I would like to continue to commend the Prime Minister. After all, there are occasions where it should be done, and I would like to do so, because I think it is absolutely crucial to link the country to the city. Yesterday, the Minister for Industry made it clear that the government would like to introduce a so-called rural filter. In practice, this means that every time we adopt a law, it must be made clear what the consequences will be for rural areas. It has been a wish of the SF for many years. It has also been for the Joint Council of Rural Regions, and I am therefore very pleased that it is now becoming clear what the impact of the legislation on rural areas and on the cohesion of Denmark is. Perhaps it could have been good when we made the structural reform, but it is certainly very good that it is coming now. It is important that, when we legislate in the Folketing, we have the whole of Denmark in mind, I think we all agree on that. But one thing is that, when we legislate, we get more attention to rural areas, something else is to make it attractive to live in those areas and to have business in those areas where rural areas face challenges. It is well known that a great many rural citizens find it difficult to sell their homes and others find it difficult to borrow in the same areas. The same challenges have companies that want to borrow to expand their business. It is simply not acceptable for them to be rejected blankly because their postal code is wrong, and instead they are told that if they move the company from somewhere in the rural areas of North Jutland into Aalborg, they will be able to borrow the money, but they cannot be allowed to borrow the money if they continue to lie in rural areas. I would therefore like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he will help to look at the issue of financing opportunities and make it easier for companies and citizens to access loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134507	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134509	May I first thank you for your gratitude. I think it makes sense that we are operating with such a filter down over the legislation. It would then also have been easier to achieve the liberalisation of the law on plans, which is clearly in favour of rural areas. It would have been easier to get through with the agricultural package with broader political support, which is for the clear benefit of rural areas and such things, so that it will be really, really good when we can see in the future how it affects it out there. After all, I have the position and the view that we must have growth throughout Denmark. That is also what we are pursuing. And I believe that the right order is to create opportunities, because then the opportunities will also be used. It certainly has its limit to dictate to private banks who they should lend money to, but if you can make a policy that creates good cases, then you also promote the likelihood that they can be financed. And that's why the right place to start this whole debate is to make sure that some space is created outside where there is a little longer between houses, in our rural areas, in terms of business development etc. And the government is working hard on that and has also delivered results on the last parliamentary elections. I mentioned two here: the agricultural package and the liberalisation of the law on plans. If, moreover, we can do more and more to promote financing opportunities, then I will certainly not stand by and rule it out. Then I would point out that this is a debate to be held with the Minister for Industry, and I would suggest that this should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134653	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134655	But now this is not just a question for the Minister of Industry, with the comparison between the country and the city. I can also hear that the Prime Minister is concerned about this, so I will really continue a little on this track, because an opportunity to create funding for citizens who want to sell their homes has SF put forward a proposal for this. Seller actually has a buyer who just cannot be allowed to borrow, because some of the requirements we have set for the banks SF has also been involved in the bank packages, is insanely restrictive and makes it quite difficult in terms of an assessment of a housing subsequently to be allowed to sell it again. We have Danes who are tied up and cannot move from their homes. However, I would like to say that I am very open to looking at various forms of financing, but our proposal has been a government mortgage institution. Another possibility could also be to look at some of the requirements that lie in the bank packages. What I think is crucial is really resolving the problem facing both citizens and businesses. It's not like I'm alone with this. In fact, this is an approach that I have heard several Left Mayors, among others. The mayor of Tønder, but also Dansk Byggeri mention where they want action and they support SF's proposal for a state mortgage institution. Let me not say that our model is the good one. I'm just interested that we open our eyes and help solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134813	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134815	The state as a lender in relation to individual homeowners I do not see for myself. I must therefore refer to the Minister for Business and Industry on the financing side, because I do not think my clarity is sufficient, as far as, for example, we are concerned. how the requirements are formulated in our supervision of the banks. Is there a derived effect of them? I would very much like to take that discussion and the Minister for Industry would be very happy to take it. I stand like this in my own head because we have at least been involved in this before, without I know exactly the status of it, i.e. the whole question of what kind of available amounts should be taken into account when assessing your customer. Does it make sense if it is the same in city and country when we know that the cost of living varies? There has been the whole discussion about lying time. So again, when you write the homes into the book and the balances, how do you calculate the time of lay and the type of things? I admit here that I have no current status. We would very much like to discuss this with the SF too, because we have the basic view that people should have the opportunity to borrow on the market for business and property, if they can afford to live there or operate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134942	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228134943	I do not think that the disagreement is so great that it should not be people who are technically insolvent who should be allowed to borrow on particularly favourable terms. What I am just concerned about is that we are creating this growth in our rural areas and not just doing it in the big cities, and that people are not being told that they have to move to Aalborg or Aarhus in order to expand their business. Well, then it's like we're laying our feet on ourselves. I am a little saddened that there must be ideological blockages in relation to a state mortgage institution, because it is not foreign to the Danish state to run a bank. We have financial stability, but peace be with it. I am, in fact, most concerned about finding solutions, and if a solution is to look at some of the restrictive requirements that lie in the bank packages without us unleashing everything, it is certainly a model. But I also expect that on Thursday, when the SF motion for a resolution on an outermost filter, a rural filter, the government will also support that proposal now that the Minister of Industry has reported so clearly that that is also what the government is looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135043	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135045	Thank you. Now we have chosen to back up at the forefront and are, as such, open to running with this filter, with that flexibility it is not such a stereotype that we put down over all the legislation, although it is legislation that has no relevance whatsoever to this problem. So it is, so to speak, a hand-held filter that is taken up in relation to specific legislation, and I believe that in this way there is a small variation in relation to the SF's motion for a resolution. However, I do not think it should be a shadow of a fundamental consensus that we would like to see development in our rural areas. If we can discuss the method, that's good. SF was probably not there when we created better opportunities for Danish agriculture, which are the ones who deliver jobs in rural areas. I don't know where the SF was when we liberalised the planning act. So there will certainly be some methodological discussion in the future, but to have the ambition and therefore also to have the system that, like forcing oneself to consider what possible consequences are of something one has between one's fingers, we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135149	Thanks for that, and that's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135154	Then there are some reviews: Minister for Employment (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 147 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions and the Law on the highest, middle, higher general and ordinary early retirement pensions, etc.) Merete Dea Larsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the involvement of residents when non-profit housing companies invest in art). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 73 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on negotiations with the United Kingdom on mutual protection of the rights of Danish citizens residing in the United Kingdom and British citizens residing in Denmark). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accession to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a consistent approach to asylum seekers who commit crime in Denmark). Jeppe Jakobsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a bridge-building function at the Veteran Centre). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 46 (On the human and social consequences of an ever higher retirement age). Titles on the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on the Foreign Minister's statement on selected international organisations (Nordic co-operation, OSCE, Baltic Sea Council and Council of Europe). 8. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on 14 March 2017. The Minister for Equal Opportunities (Karen Ellemann) has informed me that she wishes pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on Minister for Gender Equality's statement on Perspective and Action Plan 2017. 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter of 24 February 2017 with various resort changes between ministers. The message will be printed in the Parliamentary Time (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 23 February 2017 states that the responsibility for the case of applications for party support for 2017 by the Liberal Alliance, cf. Paragraph 2 of the Party Support Act shall be transferred from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Interior to the Minister of Justice, since the ability of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of the Interior to deal with the matter may be called into question. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen / Christian Hesthaven ]. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter of 24 February 2017 with various resort changes between ministers. The message will be printed in the Parliamentary Time (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 23 February 2017 of 23 February 2017 provides that the responsibility for tasks related to basic IT operations, including installations, contracts and service agreements relating to IT operation of data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems and middleware, professional applications, IT workstations, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior and outsourced IT service contracts and supplier management tasks related to the Department of Economics and Interior, the CPR Administration and the Ankestyrelsen, is transferred from the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to the Minister for Public Innovation per year. On 1 March 2017, and on 1 March 2017, the responsibility for tasks related to basic IT operations, including installations, contracts and service agreements relating to IT operation of data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems and middleware, professional applications, IT workstations, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to upstream and upstream contracts and supplier management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations, relating to the Department of Children and Social Affairs, the Social Protection Agency and the Council of Social Services Deferred, shall be transferred from the Minister of Children and Social Affairs to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen / Christian Hesthaven ]. Members of the Folketing Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil and Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, both S, have informed me that they want to take back questions to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs about inequality in Denmark. The question has now been dropped. Members of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen, EL, and Rasmus Nordqvist, ALT, etc. I have been informed that they want to take back the question to the Foreign Minister on the course that Donald Trump has taken as President of the United States, Question No. F 41. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135522	I have to ask for more quiet in the Chamber. Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135613	Ellen Trane Nørby has applied for leave from 1 March 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135647	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the South Jutland Storkreds, Hans Christian Thoning, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 1 March 2017 on the occasion of Ellen Trane Nørby's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135718	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 96 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135801	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 44 by Pernille Bendixen (DF), Carl Holst (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. in favour of 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 47(S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V-44 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 43 of Pernille Skipper (EL), Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil (S), Marianne Jelved (RV), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228135924	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 46 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Naser Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 46 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 45 by Mr Bramsen (S) and Mr Bech Poulsen (SF) and proposed adoption No. V 47 of Rune Lund (EL) and Zenia Stampe (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140040	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 49 by Anni Matthiesen (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 49 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 48 by Christine Antorini (S), Bruno Jerup (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140239	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The draft law has been adopted unanimously by 106 votes. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140309	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140337	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140406	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140426	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL and SF), joined by a minority (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the proposal should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140549	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There is much, much unrest in the Chamber. That is why I am waiting for the last second reading. Either you have to leave the hall or you have to sit down and keep quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140658	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140732	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140748	Thank you. The stocking in the Faroe Islands has adopted two regulations which ensure that in future it will be possible to terminate a marriage between two of the same sex in the Faroe Islands when those concerned live in a country that does not recognise marriages between persons of the same sex and therefore does not have legislation in this area either. With this bill, the legislation will be similar to the one we have in Denmark, so that the proposed provisions correspond to the provisions of the Danish Code of Procedure in this respect, which was introduced by Law No. 532 of 12 June 2012. Part of the bill can be arranged by a royal regulation, while another part must be approved here in the Folketing, and that is what is happening now. The Social Democratic Party, of course, agrees with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140914	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteur said, this proposal is divided into two parts. One part is about the fact that it has become possible in the Faroe Islands to marry two of the same sex, and we have no objection to that, nor if happiness should break and then you have to get into a divorce; then we also think it makes sense that it is an option, and that is the other part. We have a tradition that when people in the Faroe Islands ask for some legislation to be implemented, we do so too, which is why I can only say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228140949	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141006	Thank you for that, President. As I have said, we are dealing with L 129, draft law amending the law for the Faroe Islands on the care of the courts, and in this connection I can say that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. Of course, we support the decision that has been taken in the Faroe Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141052	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141057	Thank you. In my opinion, it was a huge victory that Greenland decided that now two of the same sex could marry. We have waited a long time and eagerly for the progress of the Faroe Islands in this area, and of course the legislation now needs to be completed, because it is not certain that it will last until death we part. That is why it is also important if you find that this is not going to work and you want to separate, that it is possible and that it is also rightfully ensured that it works. So that is both why, but also because we are very much in favour of the Faroese deciding for themselves as much as possible, and when they want to create new legislation, they certainly need support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141150	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141156	Thank you. You almost want to say: we are gathered here today and so will I. We are gathered to deal with a bill on the positive background that the Faroese Laying has decided, as we have already heard, to amend the Faroese marriage law so that it will be possible for two people of the same sex to enter into a civil marriage. After all, it is a good thing that the authorities in the Faroe Islands do not in future have codecision over the lives of the individual citizen. Of course, when the joyful change takes place, there must also be the necessary freedom to dissolve these marriages, whatever the circumstances, and for that matter, whether you are resident inside or outside the Kingdom community at the time when the marriage is intended to be dissolved. So in those words I would just like to say and note that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141255	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141302	Thank you for that, President. Like the previous rapporteurs, I would also like to join in L 129. It is of course very nice and positive, both that the Faroe Islands have finally embraced the possibility that two people of the same sex can enter into marriage, and also that it will now also be possible to dissolve it again. In this way, it strengthens democratic freedoms, which are the basis for healthy coexistence between people. We look forward to taking care of lgbtq in the Faroe Islands on the question of what happens in connection with adoption, how the rights become for couples of the same sex who have married, to adopt. We also look forward to it being possible that the church wedding can also become part of the accepted marital forms in the Faroe Islands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141411	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141424	Finally, the rainbow flag is flying in the Faroe Islands. It is good to see that tolerance and diversity are spreading, and that it is now also stated in the Faroe Islands that there is not one particular, proper way of living together. The stocking has decided to make it possible to let people of the same sex get married and, if it should end over there, then also to get divorced again. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141453	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141507	The Conservative People's Party is also in favour of the bill, which is not, of course, about allowing homomarriage in the Faroe Islands. We support that too, but it is a Faroese decision. However, this is a matter of correcting the legislation, so the consequence is that you can also have the legal treatment that you should have if you are two people of the same sex who are married. We think this is necessary, and we also think it is a good development that has been in the Faroe Islands. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141540	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. And then it's sir. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141554	Thank you, President. It is a proposal for a law amending the Law of the Faroe Islands on the care of the courts • International jurisdiction in matrimonial matters • No. L 129. As stated in the entry prayer from the Minister of Justice, this is a proposal to make some changes to the Faroese Code of Procedure, which not only allows two people of the same sex to marry under Faroese law, but also allows them to divorce again. I do not need to spend long time explaining the complexity of the whole matter of homosexuals' rights to marry in the Faroe Islands, but just finding that the legislation is now in place after a long and intense battle of value both within and outside the Faroese Parliament. The last supplement comes into place when the High Things passes Bill No. L 129, which also makes it possible for same-sex couples to separate in a proper way if that situation arises. So this is that you can break up such a marriage, even if these people are in jurisdictions that do not have legislation that supports it, because then they can be divorced after the administration of justice in Denmark or in the Faroe Islands. The law on legal care can only be amended by a parliamentary law, and therefore it is necessary to deal with and hopefully make the necessary amendment of the law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands here. I regret, of course, that the Faroe Islands are thus burdening the Danish Parliament with this legislation, but as long as the law on the administration of justice is not taken back as Faroese territory, it must be so. But there should be no doubt that I would like to see the Code of Procedure taken back as Faroese resort area. However, this requires a great deal of effort from both Danish and Faroese authorities, as there are some 200 updates of the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure compared to the procedural law in force in Denmark. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister for Justice that the Ministry of Justice has undertaken to set up a working group to carry out this work, but I have not yet heard that it has begun and would therefore like to know when it is expected to start and when work is expected to be done to update the Faroese Code of Procedure. But back to bill L 129: It is no secret that the case of marriage between two of the same sex has divided the waters of the Faroe Islands for a long time, but the Lating has finally taken a position on the matter and there is relatively broad support in the Faroese Parliament. It is now up to us to put these issues, which are the subject of draft law L 129, into place. I expect and will appreciate that, as long as the law on the administration of justice has not been repealed, the Danish Parliament will follow the will expressed by the Faroese Parliament in this matter. And if anyone is in doubt, I feel the same way about all other laws dealing with Faroese matters: I believe basically that in Denmark the Danish Parliament and the Faroe Islands legislate the Lagtinget for Faroes. With these words, I would recommend that Parliament give draft law L 129 a positive treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141922	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228141928	Thank you. This bill relates to marriage in about the same way as a life jacket relates to a ship. We will only adopt it so that there is a way out when what is the real purpose does not go as it should. When a ship fails, people must be able to get out of the ship, and when a marriage fails, the marriage mates must also be able to get out of it. This is therefore an emergency measure. But, as you know, a life jacket is part of something bigger, and when the Folketing adopts this proposal, we have come very close to the culmination of a long, hard and laborious democratic process in the Faroe Islands. It could be said that it started in 1988 when a proposal to ban discrimination against homosexuals was put before the Latting. This triggered a very big debate which the Conservatives won the proposal received only one vote in the Latting. However, the silence had been broken and the debate continued, and after being tabled twice, the proposal, that is, on the discrimination clause, was finally adopted in 2006. Then followed the debate about homosexuals' access to marriage. First, a proposal was dropped in the Latting, but a small year ago it was adopted by 19 votes in favour and 14 against. This is a common matter, so it will be the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, which, at the request of Lattinget, will implement and amend the Marriage Act for the Faroe Islands. But if homosexuals are to be able to marry, they must also be able to divorce, regardless of the country in which they live. It is a matter for the courts, and it is also common to the whole realm, and that is why today's proposal is being made. It was technical. Then I would also like to say a little overarching on this matter. The thing is, just two decades ago, homosexuals had a hard time in the Faroe Islands. It's not an allegation that the fact is that it was more the rule than the exception that they left their country. In 1995, my own eyes were opened up for something to be wrong. I had written a speech in the newspapers criticising the harsh tone with which homosexuals were referred, even though none of them ever responded. A few days later I received a letter by post from someone who thanked me for my letter and briefly explained that to him or her life in the Faroe Islands was complicated. I don't know who wrote me the letter because it was anonymous. He did not dare to stand up in public with a name or to name me who had defended him or her in public. He or she spoke out of a darkness, and it was when I stood with that letter in my hand that I really realized and understood that there are some people in our society who walk and plunge their necks and who are cowed by a social consensus that needs to be broken. Now it's broken. There has been a radical change of attitude, and it is mainly thanks to the homosexual couples who insisted on staying in the Faroe Islands and changing the Faroe Islands from within instead of choosing the easy solution and moving away. They did, for example. some simple but powerful campaigns with the very simple message: Here we are. They also started Thorshavn Gay Pride. In the beginning very few people showed up, but in recent years the celebration in Thorshavn has undoubtedly become the largest in the world compared to the population. So it was people who did not ask what their society did to them, but what they could do to their society, and that is the core of all healthy political activity. Another crucial factor has been that Danish authorities and Danish interest organisations have largely ignored this case, even though both family law and the courts are common to the whole realm. This is important because if the fundamental change that has taken place in the Faroe Islands in this matter had not come from within, it would not have come at all. The process has been a long one, the debate has lasted for almost 30 years, very hard things have been said, and for some it has been painful, hurtful and painful, but sometimes democratic debates have to go into every corner. Sometimes all thoughts and opinions must come out of the hooks, out into the light, where they can be broken in the public space before a new consensus can be formed. And that's how it's been. That is how a new public opinion has been formed in the Faroe Islands, and on that basis we can now implement a law that has full democratic legitimacy. It's time to change the law. It is democracy when it unfolds in the most beautiful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228142458	Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228142504	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. There seems to be a unanimous Parliament behind the amendment of the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm really glad. As you know, the draft law has been drawn up on the basis of a decision in the Faroe Islands' Laying and is linked to a simultaneous amendment of Faroese marriage law. Thus, in the Faroe Islands, it has been decided that it should be possible for two persons of the same sex to enter into marriage civilly. It will be implemented through amendments to Faroese marriage legislation by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs by royal decree. When the possibility is introduced for two persons of the same sex to marry in the Faroe Islands, it must also subsequently be possible to break up such a marriage. The rules governing the treatment of matrimonial matters by the courts are laid down in the Faroese Code of Criminal Procedure. These rules will also apply to marriages between two persons of the same sex. However, the rules do not in all cases allow persons residing abroad to have their marriage proceedings dealt with here in the kingdom, and therefore the situation may arise that two persons of the same sex who have married in the Faroe Islands but who have resided in a country which does not recognise such a marriage have nowhere to go if they want to break up their marriage. Against this background, the bill envisages extending the international jurisdiction of the courts so that it will always be possible to deal with cases of dissolution of marriage between two persons of the same sex in this kingdom, when none of the spouses resides in a country which recognises such a marriage. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your speeches and look forward to further consideration and, of course, are available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228142703	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroese Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228142716	The debate is open, and Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat, is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228142732	The aim of this proposal is to abolish the obligation for criminal services to draw up action plans for sentenced prisoners and to restrict access to education, training and programme activities by foreign servings and the right to social treatment services against drug abuse. I would like to start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party want foreign criminals to be sent home to serve. They should not be in the Danish prisons at all. Indeed, it is also with concern that in 2016 we have detected a decrease in the number of foreign servings who were sent back for serving. In the years before, the agreement on criminal justice had succeeded in sending more and more homes, so I look forward to hearing the Minister for Justice's explanation of the decline in the number of foreign inmates sent home to serve. After all, it must be the most reasonable thing that Danish taxpayers should not have to pay at all for criminal foreigners who have come here to Denmark and committed crime, then sitting in Danish prisons. In the Social Democratic Party we support the bill that we are discussing here today, but we also wonder about parts of it, because in the 2013 agreement on the criminal services economy referred to above it was precisely stated that exiles should not receive education and employment aimed at adapting to Danish society. That is why we will also be following up the number of people in this House in committee who are actually targeting education, training and programme activities. At the same time, I hope that the Minister for Justice will explain what has been taken of initiatives to protect the prison officers from drug addicts. That we remove treatment options is in and out fine. Nor is it fair for Danish taxpayers to have to pay for that part, but after all, it must not end up going beyond the safety of prison officers, which we have already seen, unfortunately, being under pressure in recent months. Finally, I would urge the Minister of Justice to strengthen the focus on the repatriation of criminal foreigners. Just looking at education and training seems a little narrow, but I would like to say that we in the Socialist Group support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143019	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143023	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think there were many good elements in the Socialist rapporteur's speech, but there was one thing I was missing, and that was about the debate that has been going on in this area for a few years, about special prisons in Eastern Europe. One thing is, of course, that both this government and previous governments have had a very difficult time, it has to be said that returning these criminals, but another thing is whether you could imagine that the Socialists would support a proposal that in the time when they cannot then be sent home, when we have to have them in Denmark, we could buy a prison • it could be in Romania or Bulgaria or other lovely countries drive it there and have them there until we could finally get rid of them. Would the Socialists support that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143106	It's been more than a year since the former Minister of Justice mentioned this. Meanwhile, we have seen from the Social Democrats that there has even been a decrease in the number of foreigners sent home for service. I must also say that, although we are, in this way, open to the idea that prison cells can be temporarily rented in other countries in order to put pressure on repatriation, that must never be the goal. The aim must of course be that it is the countries where we have concluded repatriation agreements that accept the foreign criminals. It is not fair that Danish taxpayers should pay for foreign servicemen to serve their sentences at all when joint agreements have been concluded in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143152	We fully agree on this and it is a problem that this government has, and it is also a problem that the rapporteur's party had when the Social Democratic Party sat in government. That's fair enough. We're gonna have to work on that. But it was actually more simple: will the Socialists give an undertaking to support buying or renting a prison in Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143213	We have announced that we support that solution, but that we see it as an absolute emergency solution. At the same time, I must also mention that last year there was a decrease in the number of foreigners sent home for service. With the 2013 Criminal Welfare Agreement, a majority of Parliament's parties agreed to put turbo on the return, putting greater pressure on the repatriations. Meetings were held with inter alia: Romania, from which a large proportion of the criminal aliens come, and it seems that that effort has lost its breath after the current government has taken over power. So I think it must be the primary thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143249	We thank Mrs Trine Bramsen and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Bramsen. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143307	Thank you for that, President. The proposal we are now debating is, in all its simplicity, aimed at reducing the terms of service of criminal aliens sentenced to expulsion. It's actually really good that we finally get to grips with this issue. A few years ago, a police officer said that some criminal foreigners, for example. from Eastern Europe, the Danish prisons and detention houses are regarded as something close to four-star hotels, and it must be attractive if you come from a country where the conditions of service are significantly different from those in Denmark, that you can be offered all-round courses, education and, it has to be said, attractive conditions. That is not satisfactory, and that is why we also need to tighten up. Having said that, I am not very impressed with the proposal which the government has put forward and which we are now considering. This proposal does not go very far. The government envisages abolishing action plans and restricting access to education and social services, but if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. It is clear from the comments that it says, and now I quote: 'However, the education, training and programme activities should be limited in scope, provided that the activities in the particular case are intended to ensure that the work itself can be properly carried out rather than aimed at re-socialisation. Then I will skip a line: "There will therefore be cases where special circumstances may suggest that the sentenced person should have access to education, training or programme activities. This is particularly true where, on a case-by-case basis, it must be considered necessary for the maintenance of order and security at the service of the service provider. This means that if you just make trouble and create enough, you will have access to all the benefits that have been mentioned here, even if a majority in the Danish Parliament has a different intention and wants to take it away from the criminals who are sentenced to expulsion and not to be in Denmark. It's all on the moon. If you get into prison, the system doesn't have to give in. Then we must set up the system to deal with such a situation, otherwise it is ridiculous. There is also a cat door, in relation to if a particular education is relevant in the country of origin, the country to which you have to be sent back, and there I have to ask quite frankly: how lax can it be? We're not very impressed. On the other hand, I lack clear visions from the government when it comes to serving in countries other than Denmark. It is almost a year ago that the former Minister of Justice on the front page of the Berlingske Tidende proudly proclaimed that Denmark should run prisons in Eastern Europe, for example. Romania. We have now heard that, I think, very much and many times. Nothing has happened in this matter, and it is simply time that we dealt with this problem. What about the very clear signals from the Minister who, in the last election campaign, referred to this subject? All privileges were to be taken from the exiled. I don't think we have that much to do with this proposal. Instead, you come up with this lax proposal for the Folketing, a proposal that is not going to battle, I think, very much, and you just have to say that it is only a limited part of the overall road we come here. I can therefore give notice that the Danish People's Party will be tabling several amendments to this bill to improve it, but it is clear that it is only a step along the way. As soon as we can open a prison for exiles in Eastern Europe, the problems will be solved there, and hopefully that will be the way out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143650	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143704	Thank you. Each year approx. 1,500 people for expulsion in Denmark. Most of them must have a stay in a Danish prison before they are deported. It draws on the resources • the resources that we need, among other things. to rehabilitate the Danes who are going into Danish society. Understandably, we have many offers for those who are being put in the Danish prisons. Incomprehensiblely enough, we also have many offers for those sentenced to expulsion who no longer have to go into Danish society when they have endured their imprisonment. It's wrong. It is not our job to rehabilitate those concerned, and that is why we are cutting back on the offers that relate to the time after expulsion. It is education, education, AMU centre training, so-called programme company, Anger Management, I think it is called, rehabilitation offers, action plans, therapeutic talks, etc. We should not use the resources for this, and I am not aware of the resources or understanding of what is actually required in the country of origin after deployment to re-socialise the foreigner concerned. Different it is during atonement in the Danish prisons. There is still both the right and the duty to employment and, moreover, to medical treatment. So the Left can largely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228143900	After all, this bill is about restricting the right of deportees to employment in education, training and other activities, and it is also about restricting the right of deportees to treatment for drug abuse. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we think it is very important that you have something sensible to do when you are in prison. We think it is important that the inmates are not discriminated against. If you start to discriminate and start to deprive the prisoners of the opportunity to do sensible things during a service, which is very stressful, then everything else will increase tension, thus reducing the safety of the other prisoners, and this will also reduce the safety of prison staff. That is why we consider it a really bad idea to reduce the opportunities for education or employment and, in fact, we think it would be an even worse idea to reduce the opportunities for deportees to the right to treatment for drug abuse. If you limit the possibilities, it can be very conflicting. It can create a bad environment in prison, and so work and education make sense under difficult conditions, as well as for foreign servings. We also have it on the basis that the vision of rehabilitation must be global, and we also think it should be in Denmark's interest that people can do something when they come home instead of being pushed into new crime. I find it difficult to see how it can be in Danish interest to promote crime in the home country, especially when we talk European countries, such as us. is part of a Union within the European Union. Discrimination alone makes for us to see the potential for conflict greater. In future, when it comes to treatment for drug abuse, it will only be by long prison sentences or by special needs. But I really think that part of the bill is special and I think it needs some comments from the government. Because this bill does not want to reduce drugs in prisons, and I really thought that the government would like to put an end to the drugs in prisons. If there are drugs for those sentenced to expulsion who are unable to receive treatment for abuse, then surely there are drugs that can destroy the treatment of those prisoners who are not sentenced to expulsion. In other words, it could be said that the government is helping drug dealers in prison with this bill. After all, it is not very good for inmates to look at the fact that not all inmates have access to abuse treatment. This proposal will create more desperate people, more ticking bombs, more risks for employees, more drugs in prisons and more drones around closed prisons, and the government is helping drug dealers with a larger market and higher prices in prisons. The drug dealers are thanking the government. You could also choose to put on the positive glasses, because there are a large number of consultation answers that question the real implications of this bill. There are, among other things: Legal Policy Association, which notes that there will be no administrative or financial consequences of this bill, i.e. that it doesn't matter, or what? There are several of the consultation answers which revolve around what the draft law really will have in practice, and on that basis I could put on the positive glasses and say that, despite the fact that it sends out a completely wrong signal, the proposal may not have the great effect in the real world, even though the minister is trying to send out a signal that he is tough on expelled servings in Danish prisons. But whatever it is, because of the intention and what is technically described in the bill, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144338	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144344	Thank you. It is really just a question of deepening the end of the rapporteur's speech. Because I may be wrong, but I got a little impression that what the rapporteur was referring to was that it might well be that much on the basis of it looked so hard, but when you delved into substance, it was not so much. Would the rapporteur not like to put a few words on the meaning of the end of the speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144407	I'd love to. Because if this is going to mean a real restriction on the ability of deportees to take up work and training or to engage in abuse treatment, I believe that this will create greater security risks for staff, and on that basis I fundamentally disagree with Mr Tugendhat's report. Peter Kofod Poulsen and Dansk Folkeparti in how they view the matter. But I have to admit that, when I see the answers to the hearings, I read the same doubts as to whether there is any consequence or a real change in the possible adoption of this bill. And then, if that is actually the case, it is to appear as if we have a Minister of Justice who would very much like to look energetic and strong, but who is actually proposing something that may not have any meaning in the real world. That would, of course, be a positive scenario for me, despite the very unfortunate intentions contained in the draft law. Nevertheless, it is at least a lack of clarity that lies in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144510	The questioner? Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rune Lund and goes further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144522	Thank you. During the speech of the previous rapporteur, I could not help thinking that it almost sounds as if the government is planning to launch a series of initiatives to promote drug abuse in prisons. Perhaps we should just make it clear that this is not quite the case, and perhaps the government is hitting a very good balance here. In other words, if Enhedslisten thinks it is too tight, and the Danish People's Party thinks it is too lax, it is perhaps a very good balance that has been struck here. The draft law contains three main elements relating to expulsion sentences in Danish prisons: the abolition of the obligation to draw up action plans for the time after the time of atonement, the limitation of access to education and training for deportees during the period of service and the limitation of the right of deportees to treatment against drug abuse. All these rehabilitation initiatives aim to make the serving one ready to live a crime-free life in Denmark after atonement. However, the expulsions are not, by their very nature, to be re-socialised in Denmark, and therefore it does not make sense to use the Danish tax dollars to prepare a situation that is not to be realized. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not think that it is a good idea for the Department of Criminal Welfare to use resources to draw up action plans and offer education and training, etc., when the serving person has already been sentenced to expulsion and has to leave Denmark afterwards. In our view, this is common sense and only in respect of the work of the Criminal Services and the Danish taxpayers. We note, moreover, that plans for the stay are being maintained during the actual term of service as a necessary tool for the staff of the Department of Criminal Welfare, and we in the Liberal Alliance agree with that. We think it provides a good balance and we support the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144715	We thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228144727	Thank you. You never have to do with another person without holding some of his life in your hands. It's quite a famous quote. It comes from this gentleman, Løgstrup, one of our country's great philosophers. Løgstrup describes precisely in this book, "Ethical concepts and problems," among others. The relationship between ethics and politics, for it is the ethical claim that you never have to deal with another person without holding some of its life in your hands. That is enough, it is understood as something that only has to do with the concept of neighbourly love, i.e.. with the Christian concept of neighbourly love or for that matter the concept of neighbourly love that lies in Islam or in Buddhism or in other world religions. But as Løgstrup argues here, the ethical claim does not limit itself to the area of emotion, to family life, to the near life; it also concerns political life. And that is one of the key issues in relation to the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. Because where ethics plays a role in politics, one accepts the idea of putting oneself in the other's place. We don't need to feel like Løgstrup actually says in this book on page 54, and I quote: 'Because one can only love almost voluntarily, but live as one did, one can quite well be forced to do, and that must be a sensible policy'. On page 56 he says: politically we can and must organize society as if we had sympathy for each other, knowing that we do not. So ethics in politics is exactly about us living as if we had sympathy for each other. Even if we do not sympathise with the expelled foreigner who is sitting and serving in our Danish prison, or with the criminal who has committed gang or bicker crime, or with another person whom we cannot identify with and whom we may feel contempt for and even if we cannot emotionally put ourselves in the place of the others, it is our duty as politicians to do as if we could. It's about ethics in politics. That's what this bill is about to go in and challenge. For of course, we have an obligation in Denmark to work with the people who are in our Danish prisons, even if they have to be deported when they are done with the service of course we have an obligation to do so. Because it's other people we're dealing with. They may have to go to another country, but it is still our ethical obligation as the rule of law and as a society that we operate in a direction and with an interest that benefits the other person, whether it is the Danish society that he is going to enter or another society. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said something that I sort of stumbled over, namely that it cannot be reasonable for us to spend Danish tax dollars on rehabilitation efforts for exiled prisoners or inmates. Yes, it may be ethically accurate; it is exactly reasonable from an ethical point of view. It is certainly not reasonable from an emotional or classical economic perspective, but from an ethical perspective it is reasonable. So it was kind of just to bring it up. I do not want to go into detail about the draft law, because several of the rapporteurs have, of course, been able to explain what is in it; but in those words I would just say that precisely on that basis the alternative cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145125	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145129	Thanks for the lecture. I would like to ask the Alternative's rapporteur what the alternative will do to ensure that the agreements that foreigners who sit in Danish prisons are respected and that there is, of course, a clear agreement to be sent home for serving. There is a clear agreement between Denmark and the countries where these people come from that they should not sit in the Danish prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145155	As I see it, it will be a foreign policy task, in other words an international political task, to communicate with the countries to which these inmates are going, in order to ensure that the conditions are there for them to be sent home, and that the countries also carry out the task of accepting the citizens to whom they must receive. So I don't see it as a legal problem. I was about to say that we are going to debate in the field of justice in Denmark, in terms of how we treat the inmates we have. I recognise the challenge that exists, i.e. whether we accept or do not accept the prisoners or prisoners sentenced to expulsion that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145232	If we are to remain in the terminology of ethics, there are also some victims of the actions of these criminals. Does the alternative mean that it is reasonable for the victims to have to pay the bill so that those who have committed crime cannot subsequently be sent home to the country where they come from? Is it reasonable that the bill for them to be in Danish prisons should be paid by those who have also been the victims of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145301	If the rapporteur means it, you can say, financial contributions, which of course you pay over your tax to the inmates in Danish prisons, then it is part of our civic duty that we are all involved in it. Justice policy is often based on the idea of the sense of justice and, it can be said, the reasonableness of whether some are offended or violated, and I acknowledge that. I would just like us to start talking more about justice rather than justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145337	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145344	Thank you. We are fully in favour of differentiation, without discrimination, between Danish prisoners and exiles. And that is because, of course, it does not make sense to work on rehabilitation or reintegration into Danish society for inmates who are not going back into Danish society but who are going out. That's how far we get. Having said that, however, we also want to be true to our own legislation. And we actually have a definition of punishment already. The Lawyer's Council has been so kind as to point out in their hearing answer. They write that, according to Section 3 of the Penal Code, the purpose of punishment is to help or influence the convicted person to live a crime-free life. And that leads me to what I usually say is the main purpose of punishment, and here I almost quote Simon Emil Ammitzbøll from when he was rapporteur for the Radical Left. I remember clearly that he said this once in a television broadcast, I think it was in the TV newspaper that the main goal of punishment is to minimise the number of victims. Then you can have different philosophies about what minimizes the most, whether it is putting people on water and bread, or whether it is doing resocializing measures, but there is no doubt that that is our starting point. And that applies whether you're a foreigner or a Dane. The purpose of punishment is to minimise the number of victims. That is why we are, in fact, open to looking at some of the measures that are being put forward and, at the very least, in this area. Do we have studies that show whether our rehabilitation measures work in relation to foreign criminals? It may be that the measures we have today do not work in relation to them, but it may be that some other measures will then work. For us, it is at least crucial that we are faithful to the definition of punishment that we believe in, which is also today Danish legislation, namely the definition of minimising the number of victims, increasing the chance of these people coming out to a life that is crime-free, that is. Inflicts suffering on fewer people. That is our starting point. That is why, of course, we have also read through the consultation answers, and of course some of what I say is also inspired by some of the consultation answers, which point out that it makes good sense not to resocialise and integrate into Danish society, but it makes good sense to work on how to promote a crime-free life and a crime-free life after serving. Then there is precisely the specific point about abuse, which is probably what we are most critical of, where some of the consultation answers also point to the fact that it is not just an abuse treatment for the time after serving; it is also an abuse treatment or prevention for the time being. We know today that these are extremely harsh environments, and unfortunately I believe that it will make the environment even harder and harder to work with Danish criminals if we have foreign criminals who continue to be abusers and may also have an interest in getting drugs into prison, etc. In particular, we are very sceptical about that part. But we are, in fact, willing to look at the area and whether we should take a different approach to foreign criminals. Are the other measures needed to ensure that they go out on the other side, even if it is in another country, and do not commit crime again? It may well be that other means are needed. We're willing to take a look at that. However, we think it is important to stick to the definition that is also set out in our legislation, namely that punishment exists to influence people towards a crime-free life that causes fewer victims suffering.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228145808	It makes very good sense, as a starting point, that inmates, who we know must leave the country after they have served their sentences, should not have a lot of offers of action plans and training, which are aimed at getting back into Danish society. On the other hand, it is important that a period in prison does not help to make hard-boiled criminals even hard-boiled or that you are broken down during your service. Although this is a punishment and a expulsion judgment, there must be meaningful activities and a daily life that can provide a firm framework for atonement. At the same time, it is important for SF that everyone who needs it gets a good help in getting out of any abuse. Of course, we should not set in motion a lot of activities and offers that make no sense to someone who needs to leave the country. Here, for example, it is obvious that special action plans should be abolished, as the government is proposing. It is sensible to abolish the possibility of taking an education which is particularly targeted at Danish society. As I understand the draft law, it is still possible to work with, among other things. workshop and cell work so that atonement can be carried out in a proper manner. In general, a number of sensible considerations are taken into account that, in specific cases, derogations can be made and expulsions are offered for, among other things, those who have been sentenced to expulsion. training or treatment of abuse, if deemed necessary. We note that the Prisons Association supports several parts of the bill, but that it is important that social abuse treatment be offered to the inmates who need special support in the course of serving. As far as the treatment of abuse is concerned, there are some things that we would like to see clarified. Against this background, we will state our final position on the legislative proposal in relation to the forthcoming readings of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150012	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150028	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate and for the many positive speeches in that way to understand that at least I hear that there is a majority. Then I hear that we are at least a Parliament which looks at this very differently. Some seem to think that the Minister for Justice is one of the softest things that can be done, and others think that this is all, too violent and hard. We can always discuss that. I am pleased that there is support to be able to implement the initiatives here to tighten up the terms of the detention of sentenced prisoners. Expulsion-judged foreigners must be sent home once they have served their sentence in Denmark. There is therefore no need to use force in prisons for rehabilitation measures aimed, for example, at: to be able to get a job or an education in Denmark. With the bill, the government is going to tighten up the terms of detention of sentenced prisoners in three areas. Firstly, we want to abolish the duty of criminal justice to make action plans for the time after the release. Secondly, we want to limit the right to education, education and programme activities, so that expulsions can normally only be employed in prison work. Thirdly, we want to restrict access to social treatment against drug abuse, so that those sentenced to expulsion are only entitled to medical treatment, for example. methadone escalation. With these tightenings, the government wants to send a clear preventive signal to foreigners who come to Denmark to commit crime. It is important that criminal foreigners experience serving in a Danish prison as a real punishment. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150219	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150224	Thank you. I just have a first clarification question to the Minister, which is that what the Minister of Justice announced during the summer of 2015 about the framework for foreign deported criminals was very categorical. I have to say that I fully agree with what the Minister said in June 2015, so I was delighted when the Minister became a minister, because then we could finally, I thought, get something done about this. That is why I am also surprised that what came out of the sensible statements is the legislative proposal we are debating now. So I want to hear what the reason is, the reason why the Minister has gone from being a tighter in this area to being a sluggish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150306	It is enough to tighten it up to say that you have been relaxed. 'Cause then I wouldn't be suggesting these tightenings. I look forward to working with Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen to discuss the entire department later this year. There I hope we can find some good solutions. I also have to be honest and say that sometimes you get smarter in the process in that I am made aware that there is a difference between what is leading to what is to happen after atonement and what is going on during atonement. There we have some international conventions, the Convention on Human Rights, among other things, on discrimination in prison, if it is about the activities that are going on while you are sitting there, and we would of course be in conflict with them if, for example, we were to. took TV from a particular group. That is one of the reasons for it. The questioner shouldn't be in any doubt that I meant it when I made that call in 2015. I mean it still, in fact, but sometimes there are things that cannot be done as you like, and then we have to take the first tightening here. I guess we can take a look at it later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150414	It sounds good that new austerity has been set up later this year; I look forward to that. I will go straight on to what I also said in my rapporteur's speech, in that the remarks say that if you do not behave properly enough, you will have opportunities, in other words, to maintain order in the detention houses, in the prisons; then some consideration is taken there. I think it is a slippery slope if we move in a direction in which the system, if only one is dissatisfied enough, creates enough and causes trouble, must take account of it, instead of it being the system that expects the individual inmates to behave properly. So what is the background to the choice I think to completely reverse this situation? I think that is a very, very regrettable way to go and I am concerned about that part of the comments on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150502	Well, I understand it may seem that way at first sight. I can then also guarantee Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen for the fact that the signal I send very, very clearly to the criminal services is that the cat hatches that exist should only be used in very special cases, in very special assessments. It should not be the case, as the questioner says, that we can do this, because then it is clear that we have other ways of dealing with these types. But there may be special circumstances. And the fact that we have opened up that there may be other conditions also means that we can do this without conflicting with various obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150541	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150543	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice about what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely the repatriation of foreigners. Does the Minister for Justice not agree that what should, of course, have a great deal of focus is not at all that the criminal foreigners are in the Danish prisons but that they are being sent home? And what initiatives does the Minister of Justice intend to take in this regard? For it is sad that we have seen that the upward curve, which was in relation to the repatriation of criminal aliens, has lost its breath.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150618	I fully agree with that. Now the bill is just about what we do when they're here. Because I am not in a position to disagree on any point as regards the fact that they are not supposed to be here. Well, we're gonna have to do what we can to get them sent out. Then it may have something to do with • and the questioner also knows a lot about how long the penalty is, how fast you can send them home and what is of opportunity. That is being worked on all the time, believe nothing else, and we use the whole palette that is. But some of the things I would like to continue working on, for example. to look at whether we can buy or even have prison places in other countries. I think that's worth looking at. Then I know that one could ask me in a moment: why has nothing happened? We've heard that a long time ago. And then I just want to say, and I think the questioner knows very well that it is deeply complicated and that it takes a long time. But I can guarantee that this is something I'm working on and not something I'm going to give up on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150724	But what will the Minister of Justice do about ensuring that the repatriation agreements, which are, after all, with a large number of European countries, are actually observed? For it is disgraceful, when very clear repatriation agreements have been concluded with a number of countries, that they sow when it comes to the matter, saying: No, we do not have the right room to take these criminals back home at this time. What will the Minister of Justice do in relation to them? Nor is it fair that Danish taxpayers should pay rent in the countries from which criminals come, so that they can sit in prisons there? It must surely be reasonable for the agreements to be respected by the countries that have entered into agreements with Denmark as we comply with our part of the agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150808	Well, I totally agree with you. I also believe that the questioner knows that it requires continuous pressure on these countries, we are working with them, where, of course, we must ensure that we put political pressure, but also the good people who otherwise work with them on a daily basis must press even more. This is just, I almost said, like the picture of a dish that never finishes. Well, that's the kind of thing you keep pushing for. However, I fully agree with the questioner that we must do everything we can to ensure that they fulfil their obligations. Because it is not fair for Danish taxpayers to pay for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150844	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150847	This proposal will limit the right of deportees to abuse treatment, and the government would like to dispose of drugs in prisons. But will this proposal not all the other things being equal when it comes to restricting the right to treatment for abuse lead to more drugs in prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150908-2	I thought a lot about it when Mr. Rune Lund stood on the platform here and talked about it, because I simply do not think I have understood the argument. After all, we are not saying no to the medical part of the abuse treatment, but we are still getting rid of it. I mean, you still get away, for example. your methadone, you get the medical stuff. What you do not get anymore are these follow-up talks, support conversations, what to do after you get out, etc. So you still get away with your treatment if you're in rehab.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228150942	According to my logic, it would be the case that, if abuse treatment were to be reduced, there would be more abusers, everything else equal would be more drugs in prisons, everything else would be a larger market for drug dealers, who could either sell more drugs or get a higher price for the amount of drugs there is, and there would be more people who, because they do not receive the abuse treatment they should be given, would be dangerous to the staff and to the other inmates. Can this not be the natural result or the consequence of cutting back on the treatment of abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151021	I simply do not agree with that, because the medical treatment, the medical treatment, is still being given away. If you had taken it away, I think it would have been deeply worrying, because then it is that you really are creating some challenges. But the medical treatment is still gone, what you just don't get is these supportive conversations and conversations about what's gonna happen when you get out. So I just don't agree that it will help increase drug sales in prisons, because you get what you need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151055	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151109	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151133	I'm just gonna get the papers together here. There can be no doubt in any way that rape is a deeply offensive crime, and it is undoubtedly the case that rape has traumatic consequences for the victims. I am therefore in complete agreement with the general view of the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is absolutely crucial that sexual acts should be based on voluntary action. That goes without saying, and that is not a matter for discussion. If you are the victim of rape, you must be treated with dignity, proper and professional treatment from the case's notification to its conclusion. I think that should be the point of reference when discussing the issue of rape. Proposers will change the criminal code's definition of rape, so that the provision is based on a requirement of consent. That sounds obvious to me, because sexual acts must be based on voluntary action. And therefore consent to a sexual act is already today at the heart of the assessment of whether the act is a crime. However, such a provision, defined on the basis of a requirement of consent, would not, in my view, be appropriate, and there are good reasons for this. The Criminal Code Council thoroughly considered the issue of a consent-based rape clause in its 2012 report on sexual crimes. In this context, the Council recommended that the rape clause should continue to be based on a requirement of coercion or exploitation of the wrongdoing and not, therefore, a requirement of consent. The Criminal Code Council placed particular emphasis on two points in its assessment, which I would like to highlight here today. If the rape clause is to be based solely on a consent requirement, the concept of consent must be defined as precisely as possible. However, as the Criminal Code Council pointed out, explicit consent is not something that characterizes normal sexual activity. We live in a reality where such consent in a sexual context can be difficult to define and hardly usual. That is why the courts would often end up looking at and looking for signs of, for example. violence, threats or coercion by the perpetrator. Unfortunately, the reality is that the assessment of evidence in rape cases is not always easy. This will not change with a rape clause, as proposed by the authors of the motion for a resolution, because it is not imagined that consent must be written or must be answered or confirmed by third parties. In the end, this could mean that all young people should run around with a note about it in their pockets if they go out. A consent-based rape clause may also have a different consequence, which I think we should pay close attention to. It has been pointed out by the Criminal Code Council that with a requirement of consent one must expect the focus of the case to be greater than today to be transferred to the victim. This will happen because the focus of the case is being shifted from the criminal behaviour of the perpetrator to the conduct of the perpetrator. That is to say, whether wronged directly or indirectly might have given the perpetrator the impression that wronged consent to the sexual act. I think it would be a very inappropriate consequence to move that focus from the perpetrator to the wrongdoer. For the injured person, it must be very difficult to understand that the rape case is going to be about what she said or did and, moreover, showed by behaviour when it is the perpetrator who committed an unacceptable attack. I simply do not think that such a legal situation is desirable either for the individual injured or for the rape victims in general. I don't think it'll motivate anyone else to report rape either. That would be a consequence that we, at least as a community governed by the law, cannot wish for. So, with a consent requirement, we run the risk of achieving what the proposers probably want to avoid. We are all concerned with doing what we can to hold rapists accountable and ensure respect for the victims. The authors of the motion for a resolution and I fully agree with that, and the House as a whole is one hundred per cent in agreement, I think I can imagine nothing else. As I have just explained, I do not believe that a consent-based rape clause is the way to go. We may end up doing more harm than good. There are other ways to go to strengthen the understanding that rape is a gross abuse of sexual self-determination and sexual integrity, and to support the reporting and prosecution of abuses. The government parties and a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament already marked in 2016 our strong contempt for the perpetrators' abuse by carrying out significantly higher penalties in rape cases. And attention was focused on rape victims, with the prominence of rape victims, which includes a wide range of initiatives aimed at raising the quality of police work on rape cases. We must work to ensure that more people report it if they have been raped, and we must ensure that victims receive dignified and professional treatment when their case is being dealt with. That is where our focus must be, and that is why the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151726	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151731	This proposal has been made because we want to improve the legal position of the victims. Today it is often the case that the prosecution has to prove that the perpetrator has carried out a rape with violence or threats, and the courts must very much involve the perpetrator's subjective assessment of what dress the rapist was wearing or how the victim danced before the rape was carried out, and other similar things. The starting point of this, when we talk consent, is, of course, the fundamental thing that if there is a sexual act between two people, both must agree on it. So it is basically about improving the victim's legal position and having it clearly said to the courts, getting it quite clearly stated in the legislation that this is, of course, a necessary condition for there to be a sexual act, which will in any case rule out consent if people are unconscious of alcohol when they are raped, or other situations in which they are unable to consent. So I find it hard to see how this is not a clear improvement in the victim's legal position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151846	I tried to explain that in my speech. What I fear very much here is that the focus gets away from the perpetrator and onto the wrongdoer. If we move on to the consent-based approach set out in the proposal, you will be attacked almost all the time as a victim for what you have put up with, how you have done it, how you have stood and walked, and I don't know what you are about to do. I think we want the same thing, but perhaps it is just an assessment of what is most right. It is not the case today that there are not very clear rules on rape. You can't just do what you want. After all, this must be a voluntary relationship, and if there are threats, it is a rape. It's just a dangerous path to move focus from the perpetrator to the victim, and it's my clear belief that that's what we'll do if we do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228151949	However, there is a difference between what it is today, where the prosecution is supposed to prove that there were threats, that there was violence and often it also involves psychological violence and threats, which it can be difficult to prove in relation to actual physical violence and a situation where basically an assessment of the situation as such and even the exact time when the rape itself was carried out. For there is no point in the fact that the victim on the dance floor may have expressed a desire for a sexual act, because if the victim subsequently says no to it, it must also be made quite clear, and then it is still a rape. But today it will be the case that the courts will pay more attention to the fact that there was a certain way of dancing or that the victim was wearing certain clothes before the rape was carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152044	Then it is the Minister who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152048	I didn't hear anything new in the second round here, so I want to answer the same thing. And then I would say that I often find that Rune Lund from the platform here or in questions and I very much respect that relation to reports and to authorities that have published various things, and one can always discuss that; it is not politics because some have done so. After all, the Criminal Code Council has made a very clear statement on this and very clearly advised against it, and I think that is worth listening to. Then I think it would also be a slippery slope if we were to get out there, where we are going to put people in the situation where you should be afraid to send your young people into town, and that they should bring notes that they have to cross off if they go home with someone. Where do we end up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152128	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152132	You can choose to interpret this proposal from Enhedslisten in many different ways. One can choose the extreme interpretation to which the Minister has just referred, with a note that must be crossed off, or one can choose to sharpen the remarks in the criminal code, for example, so that it is added value if, for example, there have been three men about a woman or if there has been a large age difference or other aggravating circumstances. I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether he does not think it would be appropriate to discuss this provision in the Penal Code, to have an open discussion, to examine the consequences of introducing specific comments in the comments in order to tighten up the requirement for consent in cases of rape. Or should we just, as the Minister of Justice does a little bit, reject it, ridicule it and not discuss whether we can make better legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152234	I certainly don't think I'm ridiculing anything. In fact, I think I'm really, really trying to tell you why this is my point of view. That is something you are looking at, and it is clear that it is also something the Ministry is looking at, of course. And, of course, when I refer to the Criminal Code, it is because they make a fairly clear statement. Does this mean, as the author says, that we should not discuss it or be open to a discussion about how things should be done? No, I always think we should be. I just want us to do this in the best possible way for the victim. And if there is any real concern that we are going to get more focus on the victim than on the perpetrator by introducing this provision, then I think that this is a cause for concern which we should take seriously together. So it's kind of not to sweep anything aside. It is simply on the basis of the concerns that I am saying that if that resolution goes there, I think it would be deeply questionable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152330	Then I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether he recognises that there have also been a number of cases in recent years where it has been incredibly difficult to lift the burden of proof, because in rape cases the dilemma is built into the fact that there are often only two parties. And although there have been a number of points which have pointed out that what was going on was not normal and there was no consent, it has not ended up with a judgment. So does the Minister for Justice acknowledge that we have a challenge with our unfortunately far too many rape cases in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152409	Yes, I acknowledge that this is a challenge as long as it takes. That is also why I think we should remind each other together that, on the basis of the proposal called respect for rape victims, we have done something together in the Danish Parliament in 2016. I am quite sure of that now I very much regret that I do not remember that Mrs Trine Bramsen's party was also one of those who supported, i.e. to tighten up the penalties for rape and do something both to get information campaigns and to ensure that the reviews are taken properly and taken seriously. So, of course, we have to take this seriously, and I certainly think we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152445	We thank the Minister for Justice and start with the rapporteur's line. First, Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152501	Rape is one of the most serious, destructive and degrading abuses a person may suffer. It is an abuse which has very long consequences for the victim, physically as well as psychologically. A single Parliament was responsible a year ago for punishments for rape. Rape, as I said, is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed as a human being against another person, and that is why the punishment must also be harsh, as is the case with other crimes. However, as with other crime, punishment can never stand alone. Because what good is it if the victims do not report the crime, and what good is it if the case is not prosecuted? Therefore, more parameters must be applied than simply by screwing the penalty screw. More work on getting more people to report is already under way. We need to look at prevention so much, but we also need to ensure that it is easier to conduct matters in a court of law. The fact is that few defendants end up being convicted. The dilemma in rape cases is usually that they are words against words, they are wronged at the words of the accused or accused persons. Today, the injured party must make it possible for no consent to be given. This means that it must be possible to prove that the wrongdoer has resigned at the moment of the crime. This may be difficult, of course, because if only two parties have been present and that is the situation in a large number of rape cases, who is right? The motion for a resolution here calls for the requirement of consent to be clearly specified in the legislation. We in the Social Democratic Party can support this proposal. It is not a question of a written agreement between the two parties. In fact, I would like to say very clearly that I think that interpretation is a lack of respect for the serious issue we are discussing here today. On the other hand, freedom and equality are fundamental values in our society. It follows that sexual freedom, and that everyone decides over his own body, a right to decide over his own body, which in today's Denmark must apply women on an equal footing with men. For social democracy, therefore, it is also quite fundamental that all sexual acts are, of course, based on voluntary action. This cannot be emphasised clearly enough. Sexual acts without consent must therefore be punished. That's all it is. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that it can be made clearer in the penal code when it is estimated that there has been no consent. This could be the case, for example, where there are three men about a woman who is clearly intoxicated or where there is a large age difference. In these cases, it would be aggravating if it could not be probable that there has been a commitment to sexual intercourse. Here in the Folketing we have a responsibility to deal with the problems of society. We have a responsibility to ensure that law and order are observed and that there is justice if the law is not observed. Rape is a problem. Rape destroys too many lives and scars the soul for life. I hope that with this resolution and the debate we have today, we will be able to make our legislation even better in terms of rape crimes. With those words, I must say that the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152849	There is a brief comment from Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152851	Thank you. I just need to hear very briefly from Mrs Trine Bramssen: when we talk about consent and we talk about the burden of proof, who is responsible for demonstrating that consent has been given? Is it wronged or is it the perpetrator?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152910	It is, after all, a question of specifying what is involved in the absence of consent. So, as I said, if, for example, there have been three men and one woman, yes, then the three men are responsible for making sure that there has been something that can be documented as a consent. It is therefore in those cases where it seems manifestly different from what normally takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228152939	I do not read this resolution as only applicable in those situations where there are three men and one woman. This proposal deals with rape in general, and that is why I am interested to hear how Social Democracy interprets the burden of proof. Are we changing some of the most fundamental of Danish law, namely that we no longer have to prove that a perpetrator is guilty, but that the perpetrator now has to prove his innocence? Or how does Mrs. Trine Bramsen plan to interpret this? If there is one perpetrator and one perpetrator, who is responsible for proving that there is consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153019	Well, that's kind of what I just answered. We would like the comments on a legislative proposal to show, for example, that there are, therefore, some aggravating circumstances that speak in favour of the victim. For example, if there are three men and a woman, yes, that is an aggravating circumstance. This also applies if there is a large age difference or obvious strong intoxication. After all, this motion for a resolution calls for us to be able to discuss the content, and that is why we in the Socialist Group support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153052	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153055	It actually gave me the opportunity to press me in. I am simply curious because I have not been able to quite read from this motion for a resolution, in other words where the burden of proof lies. As Mrs Trine Bramsen says now, is it to be understood that some aggravating circumstances, which have to be defined in some way, will be the reverse burden of proof?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153123	The interesting thing about this motion for a resolution is that it provides for a further discussion, and that is also what I said earlier to the Minister for Justice, so that the further discussion on whether we can make our legislation better will not be rejected by the Social Democrats, which we actually think is very good. What we have proposed ourselves by the Social Democrats, and it may well be that it differs from what other parties have proposed in the debate, is that you look at the comments on the legislation and put it in as aggravating terms. We have seen a case in which there was a great deal of intoxication, and it is therefore important for us to signal that there is a special obligation, such as the one forming part of a sexual relationship with the other, to ensure that there is consent before going any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153216	There are no more questions. Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153239	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important debate, as I think it is, because rape is one of the most serious and most serious crimes a person can face. Therefore, there was also a great need for the rape area to be looked at in the seams after the last election, where we among other things. turned up the penalties and set in motion a greater effort to map the efforts of the authorities when a rape report is filed. All initiatives in this area are important. We in the Danish People's Party have considered the concrete proposal that we are now considering very carefully. I would like to admit that on several occasions we have had doubts as to the consequences of this proposal if it were allowed to do so, and we are sceptical about the proposal. We want to help improve the opportunities for the victims of rape or punish the perpetrators more severely or look at other options in this area, but I think that it will be very difficult for the courts to deal with this proposal if it is made law. Let us take an example. The prosecution must prove that there has been sexual intercourse without consent. The accused man acknowledges that there has been sexual intercourse, but believes that consent has been clearly given. The woman does not believe that consent has been given. That's why you have to go in there and look at what consent is. The proposal, which is proposed, B 40, refers to indirect consent. It has to be said that there is a whole range of different types of expression that will be very difficult to deal with. You will find yourself in a situation where it is alleged, and if so, how can you prove things? How would the courts act in this case? Is this going to cause the defendant to prove his own innocence? It is a debate that had just been raised when the Socialist rapporteur was on the floor or is it going to be as it is today that one is innocent until proven otherwise? And our great concern is, of course, whether this will mean that the victim will be more exposed in a possible trial in relation to the discussion and the question of what consent is. What is one's position in this situation? I must say I find that difficult. Many questions are simply raised which have not been answered. I don't think you can do this very simple. We just have to recognise that rape cases are in many cases extremely complicated to deal with for the various parties. However, our approach to the proposal should not be understood as a closed door either to discuss the subject or to the proposers in terms of cooperation in this area, but I just do not believe that if it is adopted as it stands here, the proposal will necessarily be some progress in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153601	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153607	Then I think I will have to ask something, as it was not a totally dismissive rapporteur's speech, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen came here because the starting point for this is simply to say: You people are free, because people decide over their own bodies, it must be voluntary when there is a sexual act, and that is actually the principle that we would like to be the basis for these matters. It is true that in such cases it can always be difficult to lift the burden of proof, and in this country it is the case that you are innocent until proven otherwise, it is a fundamental principle of the rule of law. But let me ask you this: how could Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen then imagine that it might be possible to improve the victim's legal position in this way and do so in a way that the rapporteur may not feel is contained in this proposal, although I think it is actually a clear proposal in that it basically merely lays down the principle that sexual acts should be voluntary and all people decide over their own bodies? What does the rapporteur think about this? Well, how could you move on this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153717	I would very much like to discuss this whole matter further in the Committee on Legal Affairs when the matter has gone back to committee and we have to deal with it there. I also hope that, when he comes to the floor, the questioner will tell us about some of the studies referred to in this proposal and about some of the experiences that have also been gained from a number of other countries. Unfortunately, it has not been possible for us to find out so much about exactly what was up and down in those cases. So I hope the rapporteur will. However, an outstretched hand from here, because we fully agree that there are problems in this area, even major problems, but many of these cases are also just extremely complicated cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153803	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153804	But I would like to take this outstretched hand, and then I think we can look at the committee's reading to see if we can find something that might be able to get a majority in this Parliament on this side of the summer break. I think that could be an interesting exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153820	As I said, it was not a closed door, so the rapporteur is always welcome and we are very happy to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153827	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228153850	With the motion for a resolution here, the proposers will require the government to amend the current rape clause in the penal code so that it is based on consent in the future. The authors of the proposal write in the opening remarks on the proposal: "In the debate on consent, many try to make the discussion so complicated that you almost want to give up everything in advance. However, according to the authors of the motion for a resolution, there is no reason to do so. ▪ Dear proposers, sir. Rune Lund and Mrs Pernille Skipper: law and legislation is the discussion about a new definition of rape is complicated, and that is what it has to be like when it comes to discussing such a serious crime as rape. Rape is serious and rape is serious; it is serious to be framed for having committed and seriously convicted, especially if you are innocent. Therefore, this discussion is also complicated. But the discussion is also complicated because this resolution leaves a number of crucial questions unanswered. The proposers believe that the parties should consent to sexual activities. However, it is not clear from the proposal who has to prove whether consent has been given. Should the wrongdoer prove that wrongdoers themselves said yes, just as wrongdoers today must prove that violence or threats of violence have been committed? Or is it the perpetrator who has to prove that wrongdoers said yes? Does Enhedslisten really want to reverse the burden of proof so that the perpetrator now has to prove his innocence? Does Enhedslisten want to end one of the most fundamental legal principles, namely that one is innocent in Danish law until proven guilty? It is unclear to me who has the burden of proof and it is essential for the Left to vote in favour or against this proposal. For a reversal of the burden of proof, the Left absolutely cannot support it. We think, like the Court of Justice, the Criminal Court and Professor Eva Smith, that this would be a fundamental dispute with Danish case law. It is disgusting and it is quite unforgivable when women are raped. That is why it is also essential that we ensure that victims receive fair and secure treatment through the judicial system. In the Left, we fully agree with the proposers that we should help those who have been raped or sexually assaulted. It was also against this background that we came up with the play-out "respect for rape victims', where we among other things. took care to streamline the police's handling of rape cases, focusing on training the police and prosecutor's office and strengthening the role of the aid attorney. It was also against this background that the government in December came up with the prophecy of justice for victims; a proposal that precisely intends to ensure sexually abused and rape victims a fairer treatment in the system. In this context, studies have now been launched on how victims can receive better and fairer treatment, and that is why I believe that we should await the outcome of the investigation in the following time before the government makes any further proposals. We in the Left do not support this proposal. We want to uphold one of the most fundamental principles of Danish law, namely that one is innocent until proven guilty. However, we would like to be wiser in this area, and that is why we propose that we hold a public expert hearing in committee, inviting legal experts and other professionals to give their assessment of a new definition of rape. This will ensure that all parties in the Folketing have the best knowledge base for future decisions as crucial as this proposal will actually lead to. Then, on behalf of the Conservatives, I should like to say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154327	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154333	In the Enhedslisten, we are very much in favour of the rule of law, of fundamental freedoms. We defend them fervently, even when a government such as we now have is interfering with fundamental freedoms or restricting freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, as we do, for example. has also seen it with an imam package and other actions. What matters to us is that we are innocent in a society governed by the rule of law until proven otherwise. What is important to us in relation to the debate on consent in the event of rape is to motivate the courts more to take as a basis the commitments or wishes or lack of the same which the victim had in the situation of the sexual act of rape and, to a lesser extent, to emphasize subjective interpretations of how the victim, before the rape was carried out, had danced up to the time, or what short dress there was on whether one had red shoes with high heels, whether one seemed intrusive, or how one can now formulate oneself before one as a perpetrator carries out a rape. It is simply a matter of taking greater account of the commitments and wishes of the victim in relation to the very moment of rape. That is the reason for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154459	This is not really clear from the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman. Rune Lund has probably been involved in designing himself. This motion for a resolution raises far more questions than it answers, and this resolution raises a crucial question for me: who has the burden of proof? Who has the burden of proof of consent? It is clear that, as the previous government did, this government would like to contribute to giving the victim better conditions. That is why we adopted the package on respect for rape victims. That is why we have initiated investigations to streamline police action, so that we know that when a rape victim comes to the police, they will be met by a police who are dressed to take a complaint. That's why we've changed the way you actually report reviews. That's why we've focused on the role of the welfare attorney. However, changing the burden of proof will not be supported in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154602	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154604	This is not about changing the burden of proof. In fact, it is also about getting Danish legislation in line with international conventions in this area. In the comments on the resolution, we also refer to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. That is what is called the Istanbul Convention, because Article 35 specifically refers to consent. It is very clearly described that consent must be given voluntarily and express the free will of the person concerned in the light of the circumstances of the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154645	I don't know if there was a question, so now I'm answering a little lately here, like Mr. Rune Lund said, 'cause it's pretty interesting that Mr. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten now place the Istanbul Convention above the fundamental legal principles on which we build our society in Denmark. Then you've heard about it. For me, the most important thing in this case is that we do not reverse the burden of proof. That is absolutely fundamental, it is quite fundamental and there is nowhere in the motion for a resolution who has the burden of proof. Sir. Rune Lund hasn't been able to answer that. Now I look forward to hearing, when the rapporteur comes to the floor, whether he can explain who has the burden of proof. But it's absolutely crucial for the Left who's gonna prove this consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154733	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154736	I would like to ask two questions. Firstly, does the rapporteur recognise that we have a challenge today in bringing rape cases before the courts? Secondly, does the rapporteur think that it is a problem that we do not have any kind of assessment of consent today, so that merely being a woman acts as a direct consent to consent to the sexual act? Does the rapporteur think that this is an expression of legal certainty, because legal certainty goes two ways? Is that the most sensible balancing point?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154821	In relation to the first question put by Mrs Trine Bramsen about the courts, the package we have adopted on respect for victims of rape actually takes into account the fact that more people are being reported. There was an investigation as recently as last week that showed that much more reported rape situations in 2016 compared to 2012. It was, in fact, a threefold increase. So that figure alone shows me that we are going the right way and that we are constantly taking initiatives in this area. I do not know what to say in relation to the second question put by the rapporteur. It must stand at the rapporteur's very own expense. As a woman, I do not feel in any way that anyone has the right to rape me because I am a woman, but if Mrs Trine Bramsen feels that way, it has to stand at the rapporteur's own expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154918	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228154920	The rapporteur did not reply either to my question or to my other question. The first was not about the number reporting. It was about the problems that exist when you sit in the courtroom. Does the rapporteur of the Left not recognise that we have a challenge today and that we have seen cases where there has been a challenge to prove that rape has taken place? The second question was, after all, about looking at the legal situation, which is going two ways. I would like to ask again: why is it that the Left completely rejects the fact that we should commit the country's Minister of Justice to examining whether we can make our legislation better than it is today, so that the mere fact that you are a woman does not count for your lack of benefit when you take the case to court?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155015	I can, of course, repeat my answer for Mrs Trine Bramsen, but that may not help understanding. In my optics, it's a very clear principle of law that whether you're a woman or not, it's the prosecutor who's lifting the burden of proof. And it is clear that there is a challenge with rape. Sexual crimes are, after all, slightly different from other crimes. The sexual act is not punishable; it is actually lawful to have sex with each other. What is punishable is if there is violence or threat of violence or if the parties do not agree on what is going on. So sexual acts cannot be compared to all kinds of other crimes, and that is why, of course, there are challenges for the judiciary in assessing whether one or the other statement is correct. But what matters to me is that we must not compromise with who will prove what in the Danish courtrooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line and the next one is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155132	Thank you. In fact, it is not so crazy to have a debate where we really come to the heart of what is such a good practice for a clear legal basis and evidence and applicable legal principles. Well - if you do not actively say yes and it can be documented, you probably mean no. It is the fundamental rationale behind the motion for a resolution we are debating here. And, by the way, as the Minister of Justice also stated in his speech, this is a principle which, in the evidence in rape cases, shifts focus from the perpetrator to the victim. I would like to make it clear that Parliament has the fundamental responsibility to ensure legal certainty for victims of rape and other sexual offences. No one disagrees with that. I just do not think it has been done about what is being proposed here, which at the same time is tampering with a fundamental principle of legal certainty, which should apply to everyone, namely that you are innocent until proven otherwise. Here in the Folketing we have a responsibility to ensure that rapes are reported, investigated and punished. In connection with previous amendments to the criminal code, it has been considered whether the applicable requirements of the criminal code that the perpetrator should have exercised coercion should be maintained or whether the criminalisation of involuntary sexual acts should instead be based on whether the victim has consented to the sexual activity. In this context, emphasis has been placed on the report by the Criminal Law Council on sexual crimes, and I believe that we should do so here too. The Criminal Code Council probably stated that consent-based criminalisation of sex crimes could clarify the protection of sexual self-determination and sexual integrity and could at the same time mark society's stand against sexual acts that are not based on voluntary action. However, the Criminal Code Council also considered that although the right of self-determination is the decisive protection interest in criminalising sex crimes, it is not certain that the legislation should be designed in such a way that non-approval should constitute the very content of criminalisation. It was therefore the view of the Criminal Court that the protection concerns could also be taken into account in other areas, and I fully agree with that. It was the opinion of the Criminal Court that no significant benefits had been demonstrated in introducing a general consent-based criminalisation of sexual acts, but that there were grounds to believe that explicit consent as a prerequisite for legitimate sexual activity would seldom be in harmony with the realities of sexual life. This means that, in practice, the evidence in cases following a consent-based penalty is likely to concentrate on the existence of objective circumstances in the form of violence or threats, etc., which may indicate that there is no real or implied consent, and that is to say, evidence, as was the case under the legislation in force. It was therefore also considered by the Criminal Court that consent-based criminalisation of rape or other sexual offences would not be feasible in practice to apply to cases other than those covered by the current rules on rape. I am sympathetic to the proposal's intentions, to the extent that I can allow myself to be motivated by the intention to strengthen the legal certainty of rape victims and to ensure that the perpetrator is punished and I think I can. However, I agree with the Council's consideration of how such a provision will work in practice and, in the affirmative, I disagree with the fact that we must break the fundamental principle of law that we, as citizens of a legal society, are innocent until criminal acts have been established. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155537	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155541	If we on the part of the Social Democrats support the proposal here today, it is because it is not a hardcore version of consent-based provisions. On the contrary, the proposal opens up a wide-ranging discussion on how to use the concept of consent. This also means that, for example, as we have proposed, it can be included in comments to the law if it is an example of three men and one woman, so that it speaks in favour of the victim. After all, the rapporteur chose to take the extreme example in his rapporteur's speech. But why is it that the Liberal Alliance is not open to discussing it here in the many editions that could be included in this resolution that Enhedslisten has chosen to present today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155634	We're open to discussing all sorts of things. That is also one of the reasons why we are here. We are just not open to changing a fundamental principle of law that we have in Denmark, namely that until it has been shown that a criminal offence has been committed, one is therefore innocent. Now you can interpret this proposal in many ways, and I am actually excited to hear the authors' interpretation of how to interpret it here and whether it is in harmony with Mrs Trine Bramsen's interpretation. I just have to say that as long as the interpretation of the proposal is as relatively unclear as I think it is so far... but now we still have the merit of hearing the proposers' interpretation of it... it is something that will at best leave a slightly murky legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155719	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155720	After all, this is not a legal basis. This is not a bill we are discussing here today. Then the case would be different. This is a motion for a resolution which instructs the Minister of Justice to discuss this further, that is to say the consent-based concept which can be incorporated into the legislation in many different ways, which can be both in the extreme version of the legislative text itself, but which can also work in comments or other. I'm just surprised that the Liberal Alliance is completely refusing to discuss this. It could be that we could actually knit together legislation that would be better than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155753	Well, I refuse to discuss anything. I just think that the interpretation given by Mrs Trine Bramsen is wrong in relation to what is stated in the draft parliamentary resolution, namely that if you vote in favour of it here, you are requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal amending the rape clause in force. So it is not a matter of discussing it or talking about it or looking at other options. It's about changing the law, and we just disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155817	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155821	Perhaps it is very good to read out what is in the motion for a resolution. It is: The Danish Parliament instructs the government in the current parliamentary year to table a bill that amends the applicable rape clause in the penal code to be based on consent in the future. In other words, we want to change the legislation so that it is based on consent in the future. In this context, I would say that we are willing to discuss different models of how legislation can be based on consent in the future. I would also like to say that we recognise the basic rule of the rule of law. Of course, we do, as we always do, when we debate matters relating to justice policy here in the Chamber... that you are innocent until proven otherwise. It is obvious that this is a fundamental principle of any rule of law, which must of course also be respected with the legislation that might replace the current one. But it is also true that we want to improve the victim's legal position in these cases. There is no doubt about that. We want the courts to place greater emphasis on the victim's commitment or wish or lack thereof in the specific situation in which the rape is carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155926	Thank you. I could not hear any question, but now it is the rapporteur to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228155929	Thank you. It is a noble purpose, and I agree with that. There can be no two views on that. I have to say that I think it is somewhat uncertain exactly what the resolution wants. Because if you read it in black and white and I think we should, because these are serious things we are dealing with doing so, then there is a legislative amendment which will fundamentally change who has the burden of proof, and at least in my interpretation, but I can be positively surprised, and will fundamentally change the legal principle that in Denmark and in the legal society that I and the Liberal Alliance think we should have, you are innocent until proven otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160010	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160012	Then I would like to say to the President that this is a short remark and that it is not necessary to ask a question when you take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160018	That is also why the rapporteur is responding to it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160020	Yeah, exactly. I just want to say that this is about improving the victim's legal position. It's not about changing the fact that you're innocent, of course, until proven otherwise. In August last year, Mrs Christina Egelund said to the Berlingske Tidende that such a proposal for consent would be welcomed by Mrs Christina Egelund as long as no legal slippery path is reached. I do not know whether Mrs Christina Egelund could explain how this kind of legislation could be implemented without entering into a legal slippery path, because it sounds as if the rapporteur might have a model for this which might be interesting to discuss in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160103	I remember that interview for the Berlingske Tidende. What I said was that I am, in fact, open to discussing anything that could strengthen the legal certainty of rape victims in Denmark. I believe that the questioner and I share that motive, but I warn in the same article about exactly what I am advocating here, namely that we should not change fundamental legal principles in Denmark, and that is why we reject the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next in line is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160140	Thank you so much. More than 4,000 rapes and rape attempts are committed annually in Denmark, and less than a quarter of them are reported to the police, and even fewer end up in the courts. The scale calls for action, not to mention the violation that such an action expresses. This is a violation of the integrity and dignity of the victim, and it should call for a strong response from the Folketing, because as a society we have a duty to protect our citizens from any violation of personal integrity, and we therefore welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by the alternative Enhedslisten. We must not be blind to the fact that, under current legislation, we have not quite managed to reverse this trend, and that is why we would actually like to pay a great deal of credit to our former Minister of Justice, Søren Pind, in relation to the proposal made by the previous government a year ago. We would also like to do more. The only question is what we can do more and how to do it. As a society, we must do our best to support the rape victim throughout the process from notification to conviction and to possible treatment. Often the rape victim is met with suspicion and guilt issues. At any rate, this has been something we have heard in the past, and not only with the serious offence of rape, the victim is not rarely subjected to physical and psychological damage, and that is why we need to make the process of the rape victim easier. On the other hand, as the rule of law, we have an interest in protecting the accused and respecting the rule of law. The problem does not allow for such a quick solution, and we must not degenerate into black and white positions. We must bring out the nuances of this debate and it is not a choice between either for or against protection of the rape victim. It's about a much broader picture. The prosecution shall be subject to the principle of objectivity. This means that any reasonable doubt must be passed on to the accused. Several rapporteurs have mentioned this. And we do not believe that we are helping the rape victim by creating new victims. B 40 tries to solve the problem in a new way and, as I said at the outset, new solutions need to be found to address this problem. With B 40, a clear signal will be sent that sexual intercourse must be voluntary and based on the consent of those involved, and that is a strong signal value which should not be underestimated. However, we are concerned that a new definition of rape, which is being proposed here, with consent as the key, will really help the victim. That is, in fact, the concern we have. Since the nature of sexual life is often that only those involved are present at the rape, it is often other elements that are crucial, including technical clues, etc. If they are not available, it will be an assessment of the credibility of the parties. A consent-based legislation will not change that, at least not as we read it. As mentioned, legal certainty must be at a high level for the defendant. Several experts and rapporteurs have also mentioned this, among other things. Eva Schmidt and Michael Sjöberg, President of the Court of Justice, have warned against introducing a consent-based rape clause precisely because of the uncertainty about legal certainty. We do not want a dispute with the burden of proof in Danish law policy. I do not think that the authors of the motion do, and that is what I hear, Mr President. Rune Lund said that the basic principle of innocence, to the contrary, is not to be disputed and that the burden of proof lies with the accused. This leads me to ask some questions that I think are absolutely central to this issue, because we have also had our challenges in understanding some elements. Because if it is still the one who accuses us of lifting the burden of proof, where is the difference in practice? If so, it will still be the one who has to prove that there was no consent. Isn't that correct? This brings me to the next question: can we risk in these cases that there will be so much focus on the exact issue of consent in the trial, that is, the requirement that the person who accuses should prove that there was no consent? If there is such a strong focus on it that it will mean that the focus is shifted away from some of the elements that are very important today, namely whether there has been violence, whether there has been violence, there are other physical signs, among others. on coercion, which is the basis of the conviction? The answers to these questions are unclear to us, and I can hear from today's debate that they do the same for some others, and that is one of them. That is why we are not voting in favour of this resolution today. So, despite the fact that we fully agree with the intentions of the motion for a resolution that we should be better at helping rape victims, we believe that we are in line with, among others. Eva Schmidt and the Court of Justice that it will have no positive effect on the case-law; in fact we are a little concerned about the effect it will have on case-law, and for that reason alone we do not believe that we can vote in favour, because that is a real concern. We believe that there must be a change in culture. It's something else entirely. We must start with the small children in the small classes when it comes to working in the long run on how we respect each other as gender. It's a different bet. There must also be room for that. It takes a long time, but there too we must take action. But where we stand today, with all due respect for the good intentions behind it, we shall not vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160658	There is a brief comment. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160701	I have to admit, I'm actually a little surprised that the alternative can't do that. The alternative would then be the only party in the opposition that would not help to improve the legal position of rape victims in this area. It is a debate which has moved on lately, precisely because both the Socialist People's Party, the Radicals and the Social Democrats have announced that this is a change to the provision which we want to strengthen more the victim's position. So I have to admit that frankly I had hoped that, with a clear indication from the alternative today, we could have concluded that, at least when there is a new majority in this country, we can also strengthen the legal status of victims in rape cases. This is not, of course, about changing the fact that you are innocent until proven otherwise, but it is true that it is about strengthening the legal system, in relation to the fact that the courts must place greater emphasis on the commitments or wishes or lack of the same which the victim has expressed during the period of the act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160819	To that I would like to say two things. One is that the rapporteur assumes that the alternative will not help to improve the legal position of rape victims. On the contrary, we are concerned that this motion for a resolution could in fact go beyond the legal status of rape victims, because we are concerned about the effect of the introduction of this consent-based definition in a case-law. So it is only by good will with regard to the victim that we have our concerns. The second is that the rapporteur could perhaps explain this when he goes to the platform that I simply do not understand how one imagines it would make a difference in practice if it were based on consent. I would like to hear the rapporteur explain it when he comes up here: where exactly is the difference in practice, compared to what it is like today? We're leaning, among other things. up against Eva Smith and the Court of Justice, who are also out saying that it is doubtful whether there is an effect in practice and, if there is an effect, whether it is positive at all. That's what we're leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160926	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228160927	The principle of consent is basically about everyone being master of his own body. Each sexual act must be based on voluntary action and on agreement between the parties on sexual action. This is the basic principle that we also want to be the starting point for the rape legislation in this country. And it is true that when there is a specific trial, there has to be proof, then you have to lift the burden of proof, but you will have to focus less on, for example. the perpetrator's subjective assessment of how they were dancing or what clothes the victim was wearing. And it will not be the same way as it is today, namely that the prosecutor has to go out and prove that there were threats of violence or psychological violence in connection with the rape it will also be included, but the pressure will be somewhere else, and I think that is very important in this case, in other words that greater emphasis will be placed on the victim's commitments and wishes in relation to the act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161038	Those intentions are also very fine, but in practice there will in many cases be cases of such a nature that there has been no one other than the two people involved. That is to say, if I am the woman who accused a man of raping me, I will be the one to prove that I have not given my consent. It's still gone, the burden of proof lies on me, and because I've been alone in a room with this man, it's as hard to prove as it is, for example. to prove that physical abuse has been committed or that it may be easier to prove. So that is just my only appeal: what will the situation be in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161119	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161121	I would say that I find it very interesting that the alternative does not support the proposal here. This is a motion for a resolution and not a legislative proposal. In other words, there is also a broad framework for discussing the content of what we might otherwise adopt with the proposal here. But I would like to ask the alternative what proposals are then made. What is the alternative's proposal to solve this problem, which we obviously have, that it is incredibly difficult to settle these cases and that there may be a presumption that it all too often does not fall into the advantage of the victim and thus of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161211	I commended the initiative of the government a year ago in my rapporteur's speech, and so I think that what is at stake is one of the things we need to do, so that we simply have to help the victim significantly in relation to everything, from the moment we go to the police to make a report: in relation to the advice you get along the way; in relation to the way you are met by the police; in relation to the after-work that is; in relation to the psychological treatment you may need, etc. And if the initiative that lies behind it has already shown that it leads to more notifications that are not enough, then we must put even more massively into the whole process. The second is that we have to work with our young people in order to ensure that they respect each other as people and it starts down in the small classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161253	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161255	Well, these are excellent initiatives, which I have not heard anyone oppose, but that does not change the fact that even if there are more reports and even if there are higher penalties, we still have a challenge in having to run these cases in the courts. And I would like to hear what the alternative's proposal is to ensure that there will be a higher level of justice and justice!
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161323	The rape cases are, after all, some of the most complicated cases in our society, which in most cases do not lead to convictions for good reasons, because often it has happened in a closed room, and it is difficult to produce evidence, as there has not been a surveillance camera, has not been witnesses. It is a very difficult matter to bring before the courts. In the alternative, we have full confidence that the judges we have are able to manage the case law that they have to administer, based on the current rules and the current legislation, so that we do not see a need to change it. And as I said before, we only see that the possible introduction of a consent-based practice will make it more difficult in relation to case law. So we really don't want to change that space because we trust our judges to do that job well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161409	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161418	We are in favour of the proposal, i.e. to make the rape clause consent-based. We are, first and foremost, because it sends out a very clear signal to everyone that if you have sex with someone else, you also have to be sure that this is something the other wants, and that just because the other person has not said or shouted no, it does not necessarily mean that he says yes. We think that is a very important signal to send out. I think that is also what you have to say to your young people when they get so big one day that they start to deal with such things. Now I'm thinking about my own kids. Of course, there are all sorts of other young people, but it is not because I want to engage in sexual guidance of other people's children. But I think it's good advice for your kids when they get big enough to start doing something like that one day, to say, "Never be in any doubt that it's something the other wants to do." For some of the cases from which this proposal arises are also cases in which the accused may say: 'Well, she did not say no'. But maybe the truth is that she was in a state where she couldn't say no and where she couldn't actually say yes either. And there is good advice at home to say: You must be sure that you will actually be able to look her or him into the eyes and hear him or her say: Yes, I would like that. You shouldn't sleep with anyone if you're not sure the other person will, and by the way, is able to say to and from then on. But having said that, one must also say that it is super-hard at the moment it enters into a legal system. After all, one thing is signals and what you can say to your own children when they become young and this becomes relevant to them. Something else is when you're in a trial, because that's what a lot of people have been circling up here... where's the burden of proof? Does it really change a lot? Before, you had to prove that you said no. Now you have to prove that you didn't say yes. Are we absolutely sure that one party will not take up arguments and say: Well then I thought you would; then I thought it was a consent when you e.g. Dancing like that or wearing those clothes? Because it will be the same again, and there I just have to say that although I am in favour of this proposal, I am not convinced that it will remove this type of argument. Because if you sit on the other side and do not actually feel that you have committed a rape, even if you have actually done so, you might say that she may have been very drunk and so on. So no matter what, this is really hard. That's why I've never spoken to your guilt, which is an organization that works with this, and I actually think they have a very good proposal on how to take this consent as a starting point, and also put it into practice in a way that avoids this uncertainty. You have proposed a new paragraph on rape, i.e. section 216. One provision is the old one, that is, rape is sexual intercourse without consent. It may be intercourse that is forced by violence or threat of violence. That is what we know today. Then comes the second definition, which I think is a road one could go, and that is: rape is intercourse with a person who is in a state or in a situation in which the person concerned is unable to oppose the act. I think it could be a possible way to go. I am not saying that these are our specific proposals. But it was the practicality that made me think that perhaps we could find a concrete form that would get us out of the otherwise difficult discussion of the burden of proof, which I think we are in both today's case, where we have to demonstrate that we have said no, and in a consent-based reality where we would have to demonstrate that we had said yes. That is one way of putting it into practice. So my conclusion is that we'd like to try to go down this trail. I personally have been sceptical, but the meeting I have had with never your fault and their attempts to make concrete has convinced me that at least there is a great likelihood that we can put this new principle into practice in a way that helps the rape victims, but which does not jeopardise legal certainty for the suspects or accused.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161912	Thank you. There's a question. It was at least 5 minutes of guidance worth remembering for those who have listened to it. Then you can form your own opinion. I think it's worth remembering at least. There's a question. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228161931	I would like to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. It's always nice to involve the actors, and Mrs. Zenia Stampe has had a meeting with never your fault. I would like to know how Mrs Zenia Stampe feels about the fact that the Court of Justice and the Criminal Court and Professor Eva Smith are warning against this proposal and against including consent in the provision. Is this something that Mrs Zenia Stampe has taken into account when the Radical Left goes out and supports this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162009	I certainly have. However, I also believe that the attempt at practicalisation is something else, a proposal other than, in general, simply to change to consent. One might say that the heading of the proposal that comes from Never your fault is that it should be consent-based, but the practicalization is really just • excuse the word • that there is someone who is in a state where they cannot resist, which is the requirement today. Today, the demand is for you to say no and fight back. Some people are unable to do so. This also means that they cannot give active consent. In fact, I think it is a very elegant one, perhaps a wrong word, but a fine way to balance the concerns that I think both I and Mrs Britt Baker have. So I actually see their proposals as something other than what the consultation answers are going on. My skepticism is due, among other things, to... It is also the opinions that have been expressed. I share that concern, but I believe that this proposal can actually deal with some of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162123	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162126	I think Mrs Zenia Stampe could be right about that, and that is why I am also willing to hold an open hearing in which we invite experts. It could never be your fault, it could be other organisations on their own side, some who handle the legal, some who take care of the interests of the victims • not because the two things go against each other, but there is at least a difference in how to weigh your opinions. But I would just like to ask whether I understand Mrs Zenia Stampe correctly, i.e. that the Radical Left still supports this proposal, although what Mrs Zenia Stampe wants is something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162205	Yes, we support the proposal, but the proposal I have referred to today also goes under the heading that rape is sex without consent, but where it is put into practice and thus narrows it down. There is, of course, a narrowing because when are you in a situation where you cannot say 'no'? Yeah, you are, for example. If you are affected or if you are in a very unequal relationship, it could also be a parameter; I do not know whether it is our proposal, just to think out loud here, we must also be able to; or it might be where there was strong social pressure or the like. So of course it is also in this way a narrowing of the field. In this way, it may not be as far-reaching as what Enhedslisten has proposed. It is a step in that direction, but in a way in which we do not compromise on legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162256	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162306	This suggestion, if I may be so free, is actually growing in our backyard. We believe that the current legislation is too vague when it says in the existing definition of rape that it is rape if there is coercion or the use of physical violence. It is also obvious that this has been a challenge for the courts, because, as many have already said, it is by no means a matter of course that a victim is able to resist, whether it is through contact or assault rape or in cases where there is knowledge between the victim and the perpetrator in advance. There are simply cases where a victim is unable to say yes or no, and just because he has not said no does not mean that he has said yes. Nevertheless, we may be surprised that we are standing here and discussing it here because Denmark has ratified the Istanbul Convention, which clearly states, as the proposer also mentions in the motion for a resolution, that consent must be the tongue of the balance. In addition, the UN and the Council of Europe also recommend the focus on consent in rape cases. Just as England, Norway and Australia have done, we actually think that consent is the way forward. This can help create a healthier sexual culture. After all, we would also like to try to signal especially to young people who may sometimes have a little difficulty in assessing where the limit goes, that they must secure their consent if they are in doubt. So we would like to highlight the importance of paying extra attention to each other's borders. It is not a written contract; it is an active expression of a desire to have intercourse either through words or action. So it is the circumstances that must define it. Several people have claimed, and that is also what I hear the criticism is about the fact that such an approach turns the burden of proof on its head, but that is not the case. It is still not the defendant who has to prove his innocence, but it is only the premises that change. Of course, the defendant retains his legal certainty, so it remains the prosecution's job to prove that the accused is guilty. It is about changing the thinking of rape cases, so the focus is not on whether it was physical or psychological coercion, but on the contrary that sexual relations must always be based on consensus, and therefore SF can also gladly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162552	There is a question from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162554	Thank you. I would like to start by signing off on the fact that the SF has, after all, been considering the burden of proof. Many other parties support this proposal which could learn from it. However, when it is not a question of shifting the burden of proof, so that it is still wrong to prove that there is a consent, the rapporteur could not give me an example of how the rapporteur imagines this to happen here. How would wrongdoers be able to lift the burden of proof in a very specific situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162633-2	From the SF's point of view, this is simply about giving the victim the attention that is obviously needed. That has also been said by many other rapporteurs here from the platform. There is a need to focus on the fact that the victim is often in danger of getting into trouble if he has not been able to make an outcry or resist. That is, in fact, what the proposal here can contribute to, as it does to respect, namely that counter-terrorism and war are not necessarily always an option, but that it does not mean that we have said yes to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162714	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162716	I fully agree with the rapporteur that more attention should be paid to the victim. That is also why the previous government came with the package of respect for rape victims. That is also why the current government is dealing with the victim package, because we can only agree that more attention needs to be paid to the victims. But I have to ask again: has the rapporteur had any thoughts as to what it means that the victim has to prove that there is a consent? Because one thing is that we need to focus on the victim. Another thing is that we need to make it about a rape situation to work in a courtroom. And there, in my opinion, there is really going to be a great deal of expansion of the criminal space. So I would like to ask the rapporteur again: has the rapporteur had any idea what will happen if this consent clause is introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162811	Yeah. And like many other situations where it can be difficult to prove guilt and innocence in the courtroom, I think this is not very different. Of course, there will always be an investigation that some people other than me know more about. However, I am actually confident that the Danish legal system, on an equal footing with other countries, can handle a provision which gives women a little more extended rights than those contained in our own definition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162846	Thank you to the rapporteur. Conservatives' rapporteur is not here and it has been announced what Conservatives think about the proposal. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. It's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228162920	Everyone is in charge of his own body, and all sexual acts must be based on volunteering. Today it is the case that for many victims of rape it is difficult to show up in a trial and ensure that sufficient emphasis is placed on the victim's view of things, the victim's commitment and wishes or lack of the same in the period of rape itself, during the period of the act. Today, the prosecution must prove that a perpetrator with threats or coercion intended to rape and that the victim did not want or did not want to signal that he wanted sex. But, on the one hand, it can be difficult to prove the threats and the psychic compulsion which are often the cause of rape rather than actual physical violence, and, on the other hand, in many cases it could end up with subjective interpretations of the victim's behavior and dress. Instead of having legislation in this area based on consent, it will in future motivate the courts to take more of the victim's commitment and wishes or lack of it in the time of the actual pace. This places less emphasis on the subjective interpretation of the victim's behaviour, dress and signals by the courts and, in particular, the perpetrator, and will significantly improve the legal position of rape victims. That will not change the fact that, of course, it is the way it should always be that you are innocent until proven otherwise. But more attention must be paid to the victim's commitments and wishes. This applies, for example, if we are talking about cases where there may be a very large age difference, where more men are committing the rape of a woman, especially where there may be intoxication, or where it is a combination of the three different options. In this context, greater importance must be attached to the victim's commitment and wish or lack of the same in the actual period of the act in order to achieve a significantly improved legal position. That is what we want for the rape victims. Consent-based legislation means that, as a starting point, one can only assume that a person wishes to contribute to or participate in a sexual act if he or she indicates that this is the case. That consent can be given both indirectly and directly. It is equally important that consent can be withdrawn at any time. If you have been standing on a dance floor and indicated that you want to have a sexual act, but feel like something else when you are away from the dance floor, it is of course the case that you no longer want to have sex. When we say it's not that hard when it comes to it, I think all of us sitting in this room know that it's pretty easy to know if a person wants to have sex or if a person doesn't want to have sex. It is not about having all sorts of forms in your back pocket where you have to write yes, no or perhaps the question of whether you want to have sex. It is simply that you basically look at and are sure that if you have sex with someone else, you have to be sure that the other one wants it. It is not necessarily the case that just because you have not said no, you have said yes. Basically, it is a question of changing the legal state or legal certainty of the victims, so that more account is taken of precisely the situations that I have, for example. I'm gonna tell you right here. Sex without consent we perceive as rape. That should be common logic. If you don't make commitments, you don't want sex. If someone's having sex with someone, it's rape. To engage in sexual activity with a person who cannot or will not consent to it violates the fundamental right of human beings to control their own bodies. Of course, consent can only be given by a person who has his or her freedom and who is aware of the situation to the extent that he or she is able to give his or her consent. Of course, this excludes the ability of a person who is very much affected by drugs or alcohol or medicines or other things to give consent. That alone will be a clarification in relation to how rape cases run in the courts today. In Britain and Australia, we have already seen that legislation has been changed to be consent-based. That is what we want to do at home. We also believe that it will bring better consistency between legislation and the values of society, and we also believe that it will bring better consistency with the international conventions which are in this area and which Denmark has signed. My joy was great and the joy was at all very great in the Enhedslisten when, in August last year, we saw that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left and the SF in a joint speech in Berlingske announced that sexual acts without consent should be punishable. It is on the basis of the announcement from the autumn of last year that this proposal has been made by Enhedslisten, because until then we had been the only party in the Folketing who had worked for this amendment. I had hoped that I could say here today that if there were not a majority right now and here with the existing composition in the Folketing, we would be able to implement this legislation on the other side of a parliamentary election when there was a new majority. But I have had to say that unfortunately we have not included the alternative in this case. Frankly, I'm a little surprised about that. Because we also listen to the Court of Justice and others, and there are many good arguments, and they often come up with very important objections or perspectives on the legislation that we adopt here in the Folketing. However, on this particular issue, I think it is very important to speak up against the victims. We've also had meetings with never your fault. The proposal on which they are working also goes under the hat consent and will also be covered by the discussions that we would have to have following this resolution if it is adopted, because it is a motion for a resolution and not a legislative proposal. If this motion for a resolution is adopted, we will immediately have negotiations in the Ministry of Justice, where we will have to define the details of how such a change of law might look. I am glad that by now we have a lot of people who want this. I would urge all the organisations out there who represent rape victims to put extra pressure on them, because it is quite clear that there is a movement going on here, and it is quite clear that there is scope for legislation that is more in line with the values that exist in our society; legislation which, of course, respects the fundamental principles of the rule of law that one is innocent until proven otherwise. However, Enhedslisten wants to make legislation which, while maintaining the fundamental rule of law in our rule of law, ensures that the courts are more motivated to take the victim's commitment and wishes or lack thereof when these cases are brought before the courts. With consent-based legislation, we want a significant improvement in the legal position of rape victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228163815	Thank you. There are some questions. It's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228163820	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the clarification of the motion for a resolution. I said it earlier from the platform, and I will say it again: there is nothing in the alternative that says that we do not have as much concern in this area as we do for the victims of rape as we do for the authors of the motion for a resolution. So I hope that is also recognised by the whole House. I am not quoting, but the rapporteur says something in the sense that if we have a consent-based model, it will motivate the courts to take more of the victim's experience and not just as much into the subjective explanations of the perpetrator. That was something the rapporteur said. I would just like to ask how a consent-based model will motivate the courts more to take the victim's experience as a starting point. Because I just don't understand that. What exactly will a consent-based model make of difference to the court's perception of the victim's explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228163923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228163923-2	Today, the prosecution must prove that a sexual act has been carried out against the will of the victim by threats or coercion. However, just because there has not been a 'no' vote has not necessarily been accepted. There may be cases where there is a big age difference; where there are more men involved.Then it is most often men we talk about here when we talk about perpetrators. It may be that the victim may have been intoxicated or unable to say either from or through, for example. drugs. There we in the Enhedslisten want to make it clear in the legislation that there can only be a sexual act which is not rape if there has been consent or if it is obvious that there has been a situation in which consent has been given. This is an essential other way of looking at rape than the way we see it today. This will improve the victim's legal position, and that is why we are putting forward this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164039	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164040	However, it would be my contention at all times that we are already considering this in the courts today when we consider a rape case in a case-law. That's one. The second, and I think that is very good, is that the rapporteur insists that the burden of proof still lies with the accused. So how would it make a difference in practice if the burden of proof still lies with the accused and if one were to prove that one has been raped and some physical abuse, and if one also has to prove that one has not given consent if no one else has been present in a room? So how is this gonna make a difference to the judge in practice? Because the burden of proof is still with the one who accuses, and we agree on that. But you will not be able to prove anything if no one else has been able to see it. Well, I hope the rapporteur understands my question. I simply do not understand how practices differ from the current situation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164149	If this way of seeing rape had always been the case in law, all the rape cases where there may have been more guys about one woman who has been unconscious of drunkenness or of drugs, and who has therefore been raped by those men, and where they have been able to argue that the woman had not said from the time it would have been very clear in a consent-based law. If you are very much unconscious of drugs or alcohol, it is impossible to give consent. It's another approach to rape. This is a way of placing greater emphasis on the situation of rape itself and on the commitments made by the victim in connection with a trial. But that will not change basically by being innocent, of course, until proven otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164236	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164237	Now the rapporteur says that it is still wrong to have the burden of proof, and I am sincerely pleased that we are not going to change one of the most fundamental things in Danish law, namely that we are innocent until proven otherwise. So I would like to thank the rapporteur for making that clear. But that then leads to another problem: how to lift this burden of proof. How should wrongdoing lift the burden of proof? How should wrongdoers prove that consent has been given? Now the rapporteur says that it should not, of course, be so caricatured. Well, you don't have to write yes or no on a piece of paper. But there are two people present in a room and it is a question of who can lift the burden of proof. What do you think Mr. Rune Lund made it clear that the wrongdoer must be able to lift a burden of proof with regard to the consent given?
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164333	In fact, I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe said it very clearly and very precisely when she was standing up here, namely that there will clearly be cases in which amended legislation in this area will still be such that a burden of proof cannot be lifted. But in that the starting point will be that it should be a voluntary thing when two people have sex, then the discussion will start everything else just somewhere else. Then I also believe that in cases of which we have seen examples over the years, where there may be more men who have carried out a sexual act with one woman, where there may have been a great difference in age and where there may have been intoxication, drugs and alcohol involved, it will be very clear with a different approach to legislation in this area that there can be no consent. In fact, it is also about us looking at how we talk about these things and that we have established in the legislation that you have the right to decide your own body and that no one should have sex with anyone else unless you are fully aware that the other person wants it, even if the other person has not said no. This is another way of thinking, it is another way of looking at things in relation to the current legal situation, and it is another way of seeing things that will lead to an improved legal situation for the victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164508	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164510	Fortunately, we all agree in this locality that we need to improve the victim's legal position, and we all focus on the treatment of the rape victim. That is also why, in the previous government, we implemented the rape victim package. Now Mr. Rune Lund himself experiences from abroad, and the experience from Norway shows that there are absolutely no appropriate effects in making a provision for negligence or a provision for consent. On the contrary, the judgments handed down in Norway are much milder than they would have been if they had been handed down in Denmark. There's a full PhD study about that. It just leads me to something else. Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I suggested that we hold a public, open hearing in committee so that we can all become wiser. There, for example, you could invite the writer behind this PhD project in, you could invite other experts, among other things. legal experts, and one from Never your fault, so we could discuss this subject. Because it sounds like we all have the best intentions, but it also sounds like we listen to a lot of different experts. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Rune Lund, about Mr. Rune Lund could be interested in us having an open expert hearing on this very subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164633-2	In any case, I think that it is exciting to look at how we can move forward and how we can take the discussions forward in committee on this motion for a resolution. It could be in the form of an expert hearing. That could be a way to do it. I think it is particularly interesting, because I am also hearing, for example. from the Danish People's Party that they also want to strengthen the legal position of the victims in this area and are willing to take some discussions. If we can clarify the issue in different ways by involving organisations from civil society, victims' organisations and experts and thinking about foreign experiences, then, of course, I believe that this will help to qualify the debate, and in any case it will be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164719	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164722	Thank you. The rapporteur has referred on several occasions to situations in which, for example: a woman is with several men, or to a sexual relationship where there is a very large age difference between the parties involved. The rapporteur then says that in cases where there is obviously no consent, this proposal will facilitate the presentation of evidence. I just have to ask: does the Enhedslisten believe that it is in itself suspect that, for example, the a woman is with several men, or that there is a big age difference between the parties involved? That is, in fact, what the rapporteur is suggesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164759-2	I can clearly say that, of course, this is not in itself a matter of suspicion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164805	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164806	Why does the rapporteur say so many times in his argument that in those cases where there is obviously no consent, but where consent can be difficult to prove it, for example. be a woman who is with several men, or it may be a relationship where there is a great age difference... can just say that the relationship is so absurd that there is the sexual act so deviant from the norm that one can thus facilitate the proof? I am surprised, therefore, to hear from a party such as the Enhedslisten, which I normally see as a very open-minded party, that in this way something which almost sounds as if it is dictated by the Catholic Church is being put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164849	I can then confirm that it is not. We have a very liberal relationship with how people choose to have sex with each other, how many they choose as partners and who those partners may be. When it may be relevant to mention the things that I do, how many men it may be in relation to a woman, and whether the woman may be drunk or not, and where the age difference can come in, it has nothing to do with those things in itself, but with the circumstances of the matter, as it all appears. It has nothing to do with older women not having sex with younger men, or to mature, experienced men of about 40 years of age cannot have sex with women who are younger than them. It is simply a matter of involving the situation of rape and the victim's interpretation of what has happened to a greater extent than at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228164954	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund, and then we stop before it goes into sex education. I would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165013	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165031	Thank you. I'm just gonna get the desk down from Rune Lund height. On a number of points, there are some very major problems in the tax administration which we have discussed a great deal. One of the biggest concerns is the recovery of public debt, which is the subject of the draft law. As you know, this recovery system, EFI, had to be shut down in September 2015, and all the history and all the problems it has created, must be said to be a very expensive legacy from the time of the current Minister of Finance Kristian Jensen as Minister of Taxation. After all, what happened in the whole tax administration was that it was possible to obtain efficiency on the basis of a system that did not yet work and that never came to it. So it is now one of the biggest single problems that has brought many others with them in our troubled tax administration. For the sake of history, I also think it is fair to say that at the time when these things were being done, in the mid-00's, in other words, the work with the EFI there in 2007-2008, was also warned by the then Socialist rapporteurs that this would go wrong. It should also be said, I think, fairly, that during our reign we trusted too long the assurances that came from the suppliers that the system would work until we started the basic analysis of the project, which was then completed shortly after the change of government, and where it was the new Left Minister Karsten Lauritzen's lot to pull the plug on this disastrous signature project from Kristian Jensen's time as tax minister in the VK government. What has happened is that the tax debt has exploded and it is now over 100 billion. kr. It's a shocking amount of money that hasn't come in the box. At the same time, it weakens confidence in SKAT and potentially also in tax morality. We have supported a manual recovery that can work until a new system is in place and support the step-by-step development of a new system to support recovery. We are part of the agreement that has been made in November 2016 on these areas where funds are also being allocated, but I also think it is necessary to say again that, in our opinion, it is inadequate when it comes to restoring the tax system, because we do not get to grips with a number of the control areas where efforts are lagging behind and where the agreement is therefore also under-funded, even when it comes to the area of recovery. Up to the specific legislative proposal: helping to make recovery work effectively again involves a number of simplifications. Recovery legislation is and has been quite complex. This makes recovery and debt settlement more complicated and, at the same time, makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to digitise recovery further. In other words, the draft law makes a number of improvements: claims must be recovered with all available recovery funds, unless there is a special exception. Today it is the other way round, so there must be separate powers to use wage restraint and to make payment. There is a reorganisation and unification of the acquis into a single law, in other words, on the recovery of public debt. The right to transfer non-recoverable claims to SKAT is abolished. And then there is a fairly important proposal that there should be fewer obsolescence dates, where there really are 365 different dates for the daily interest payments. In the future, there will be a maximum of 12 different periods, so that the absolute limitation period of 10 years is counted from the first of the month after the interest is set up. The fact that you can even think that you can create a fully automatic recovery system with 365 different limitation periods is a bit crazy to think about. In the area of taxation, we can talk about both individual and collective legal certainty. In our opinion, it is necessary to take both of them into account, to find the right balance. The tax minister and his party have often hated the tax administration or socialist tax ministers because they worked to reduce the tax gap and the tax debt and had regard for the community or collective legal certainty weigh heavily. With this bill, the tax minister will then increase the possibility that SKAT will be able to carry out pledges for citizens' debts and, in any case, various sharpenings. I do not know whether these are really new tones, but at least this is an increase in awareness that both types of legal certainty exist and need to be taken into account when you are a tax minister and have to conduct tax policy. Finally, I would like to say that the draft law here makes it possible for SKAT to get outstanding debts in the box better. The legislation is becoming simpler so that a new IT system can be developed and employees in SKAT can succeed in reducing existing debts, and can prevent us from seeing once again an entirely unsustainable and galloping growth in tax debt. Social democracy can therefore, as has probably emerged, support the bill. And on behalf of Morten Østergaard, who has had to cover up for a colleague elsewhere, I must say that this is also the position of the Radical Left on the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165557	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beyer de Ryke. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165608	As the previous rapporteur said, this is, after all, about the recovery in the SKAT, which we have dealt with several times in this Chamber. After all, this is a rather awkward matter which, in short, is about the fact that we have an IT system, EFI and DMI, which has collapsed, which among other things. has helped the debt to reach astronomical 100 billion. kr. It has been an incredibly long process, and if you have to crack down on a few points of what has made things go wrong with the old systems, then it is one of them. the fact that incorrect data have entered the system, that is to say in connection with what is called the normalisation of data, but also the fact that the rules have simply been too complicated so that it has been virtually impossible to develop an IT system that should take into account the many different types of claims and interest rates that could be and limitation periods. It has been virtually impossible. After all, this bill is about creating a new IT support, and in order for it to be possible, we need to make legislation that is more simple and thus makes it possible to make it work in the future. The Socialist rapporteur has already explained many of the details of the draft law, so I will not do so. I just want to strike down on one point and say that, among other things. The idea is that the recovery rate used for this should now be applied to as many claims as possible, so that it is harmonised in the future with the national bank's lending rate. As far as I remember, it's 0.05 right now, that's pretty low, by +8 per cent. So, you just want to do it simply, you know it's the same interest rate all around. And in the same way, there are a number of other proposals in the legislative proposal that make a great deal of sense if we are to have a recovery system that works in the future, and we must of course do so. I would also like to conclude by saying that I think that this has been a good process which I might well like to give inspiration to other areas, i.e. that one is actually trying to simplify the legislation in Denmark. There are very many areas just in the area of taxation which are incredibly complicated. I also think it has been positive that you have actually experienced a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, who has worked together to get things straight and to get things going in the right direction • where you can sometimes experience a Christiansborg, which is very conflict-oriented, i.e. where you try to find the differences and be very tactical. In fact, I think we have an example of a Parliament which has worked very constructively in the right direction to try to find common solutions. I also think that is very positive, and I would just like to sign up to the other parties for that. But as it may be to hear, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228165848	Thank you. SKAT has had many problems, and a broad group of the Danish Parliament's parties have taken responsibility for the work of restoring SKAT and confidence in SKAT. One element of this work is to ensure that the recovery of public debt is carried out in an efficient, legal and proper manner. A broad group that takes this responsibility up is the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. This bill is therefore part of a broad political agreement on a new and better tax system concluded in November 2016. The draft law is a consequence of the post-EFI clean-up work, which was shut down in September 2015, when the Minister became aware that the system among others. collected obsolete claims. One of the main problems with the EFI was that the system could not operate with the many special rules and on a generally complicated legal basis. That is why we are today dealing first with a step towards a more efficient recovery and a clear simplification of the rules in this area. This is an absolutely necessary and crucial step towards a new and effective IT system. The intention of this proposal is, among other things, to: to simplify recovery and thus pave the way for better recovery of claims in the future. Among other things, it will: to enable all recovery steps to be applied to as many claims as possible, to significantly reduce the number of limitation periods for interest from up to 365 per year per year; claim for 12 and that all claims are only transferred to SKAT when they are ready to be recovered. It is necessary that SKAT manages to recover claims effectively so that Danes can pay their taxes in the knowledge that so does everyone else. That is why recovery must work better. We are working on this, and this is the first step towards a new and better recovery system. Against this background, I can inform you that, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170109	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170135	This is perhaps the most technically heavy bill that I have had to get into during the next two years I have been a member of the Folketing, namely since the June 2015 elections. After all, it is a question of simplifying tax legislation to help recovery after the EFI has been shut down. It is very technical and it must also be said that the consultation answers we have received are also marked by the extremely technical nature of the legislative proposal, and that the organisations consulted have been able to see this through only to a limited extent. However, it is a question of simplifying the legislation in a large number of ways so that it can be better supported by the system, and there are a great many good arguments for this. One of the things you want to do is... In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to ensure that the Member States are able to fulfil their obligations under the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the There are five pages of special rules that can be seen in the bill if you are interested in reading them. Instead, there must be a negative demarcation, where everything can be recovered as a starting point by means of wage retention and support, unless it is actively stated that the claim cannot be recovered in this way. That is something that we, for example, are beginning to do. Seems to be positive. If I may highlight another point which is also positive, it is the repeal of the special rules of the legislation, which also seeks to bring the legislation into line, so that the process is simply facilitated by system support. Then there is also what is called the abolition of the right to transfer non-recoverable debts, and the draft law states that it is therefore the objective that the system to support IT in the future recovery of public debt should be less complex than the EFI. And as part of this, the idea is that claims transferred to the recovery authority should, as far as possible, be subject to all recovery steps, that is. payment schemes, wage retention, set-off, pledges, etc., to minimise the requirements for system support. So the question is, are we going to a place where it starts to hurt? Are debtors properly secured here? On the one hand, it is written that special treatment for non-recoverable claims will be dropped, but it should now be possible to move on to all claims, but it is also felt that, because of the need to have an assessment of the ability to pay, it will have no effect in practice. But there may be some confusion here. At any rate, there are some things that we intend to ask about during the committee procedure. The same applies to changing the order of cover rules, where right now there are a number of rules on which types of claims should be covered first and who comes second. For example: comes fines before maintenance. It is also very technical, but we also have some questions about how citizens' legal certainty is maintained here. And yes, the last thing I want to mention is the res judicata assessment of claims by the debt recovery authority with questionable legal force. This is, of course, mainly about outdated claims. The draft law proposes that the Minister of Taxation be authorised to lay down detailed rules on the res judicata assessments to be carried out by the debt recovery authority in the context of the clean-up work following the problems to which the failed system survey by EFI has contributed and which imply that the majority of the claims received for recovery by 8 September 2015 where the debt recovery authority suspended the system support from EFI have doubtful legal force. What does that mean? What will it have to do with the fact that the tax minister himself can lay down detailed rules on this, i.e. an opening-up for billions of dollars to be written off on the basis of one we have to move on to the agenda, or what exactly is in this? In any case, this is something that we are going to ask a few questions about. However, our overall view would be that, as a starting point, we are positive about this, that there are some regulatory simplifications that are good, but there are also a whole series of questions that we need to ask about this very technical and very heavy legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170611	Thank you. We think that this is a good proposal which simplifies the legislation in the field of recovery. The Minister has said that he will simplify the announcement in this area. However, as several speakers have said, the background to the draft law is very unfortunate. The background is that the complexity in the area of recovery has been so great and so branched that in practice it has prevented the phasing-in of the billion-dollar digital recovery system, EFI. That system has been very reviled by us politicians and others. Some of this has certainly been justified. However, in my view, we have not been so good on the political side to recognise that we ourselves bear a great deal of responsibility because the complexity in this area has been so high that it has been incredibly difficult to digitise the area and thus achieve sensible savings. So we are now taking a step in this area and simplifying it. This is very good, as the other rapporteurs have also said. I have one example which I think is worth mentioning. I could have mentioned others, too. It is that the number of limitation periods for interest is reduced from 365 to 12. That says something about the difficult transparency of legislation we have had in this area. Finally, I would just like to say that, on the part of the Liberal Alliance, we have had a desire to involve some of the many talented private companies, which are already highly specialised in recovering debts. We think that they should be taken into account when recovering debts from both the state and the municipalities. It's written into the agreement that is the basis of this bill that you have to look at. I hope you will. It's not about ideology. It is simply a matter of the fact that, when we have companies that do this in a large number of other areas and are very effective at it, they should of course also be involved in this area if it can lead to more efficient recovery and savings for the public sector. We can, of course, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170923	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228170929	The EFI system was a disastrous example of how we can purchase IT systems in Denmark. That is why we are also very uplifted by the efforts we have seen from the government to come up with alternatives when we have to shut down the use of the EFI system. There are no green or black lines under the results yet. We do not know how things are going to go, whether we get the systems we need, whether we get the resources into the SKAT that need to get things right. At any rate, I think that the initiatives I have seen from the government on IT procurement in the future are positive. There are so many positive trends. It contains much of what has been shouted and screamed at. This applies to agility in the purchases and that the buyer and seller must sit close to each other so that we do not wait several years to see how what we are now going to have to work actually works. I think it is being listened to so much. That is why we are confident that we will hopefully not see this in the future. The government is not the master of how an IT system is going to work. Neither are the developers necessarily. The use of it cannot be predicted. It's gonna hit a reality. That's how it's always gonna be in the IT field. That is why it is important for us in the alternative, although we may very much disagree with many of the cuts that have been made in the tax field, that every time you have the chance, you try to back up the initiatives that allow you to get back on track. For our tax administration is actually quite fantastic, and our digitisation of it is also leading in the world. Having said that, I can also clearly support the initiative here and the legislative proposal. The two focus points we have in the Alternative are two smaller. Actually, I think it's being taken care of. It's the municipal resources to become part of this more efficient recovery device. A study is being carried out on what needs to be used, and then one has to assume that the necessary resources or clarification will also be provided, so that the municipalities are satisfied with it. In fact, we think it makes sense for the municipalities to have a greater role if the resources go with them. Then a social battle has been mentioned by one of the parties to the hearing: those who owe the most are those who will have the most difficulty in paying because they may have economic conditions that are very difficult. That's the way it's gonna be. The Court must be equal for everyone, and that is why we also note that, as is being done today, the economic conditions of the individual will be looked at. And through payment arrangements, you can then make it as easy as possible. This is actually the only place I have considered asking a single question: is it being taken care of now? But summa summarum must be so that all those who owe, no matter how difficult they are, must have the bill and have to pay. Then we must find out how we can help pay properly so that we do not get left without hope elsewhere. So that's a yes from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171253	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171307	In the SF, we just want to say that we are in favour of this proposal. Better late than never, you could say. We believe that more should be employed in the SKAT, for example. the recovery of arrears. One might well ask how much debt is lost for the state, given how much extra one employee can recover per. years. However, we also agree with the Enhedslisten's comments that the proposal raises a number of clarification issues which we would like to see clarified in committee. So in the SF we are positively waiting and looking forward to committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171356	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171405	Thank you. The bill is about streamlining and simplifying some rules in the area of the recovery of arrears to SKAT. In order to create an effective IT-supported recovery system, it is necessary to repeal a number of special rules and to simplify rules in the field of recovery in general. Of course, the Conservative People's Party can support this, as we are also part of the agreement on a new tax system. This is, of course, deeply problematic when there is distrust of our tax administration. Some ideological considerations suggest that we should pay more or less in tax, but that we should pay what the legislation says, I think we can quickly agree on. For me, there are mainly three issues that are crucial to the issue of the functioning of the SKAT as it should. First of all, I think it is crucial that you as a taxpayer can have confidence in SKAT. When one finds that one pays a relatively large proportion of one's income in tax terms, whether it is income tax, consumer taxes or VAT, one can also expect recovery to work and that others cannot speculate on cheating on weight. It's about trust, and it's about the sense of justice you have as a taxpayer. The second and not insignificant element is the loss of tax revenue by the public authorities. When recovery does not work effectively, we end up with a lack of tax revenue. It is tax revenue that needs to be used to solve some of society's common tasks. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the unfairness of the fact that others have to pay what some people do not pay. There's no one else for that. When some people don't pay what they have to pay, others have to pay more than they should have done otherwise. That's not fair. For the sake of the three things, we need a recovery system which works, which is effective and in which the Danes have confidence. Work is now under way to develop a new IT recovery system to take over from the now closed EFI system. In order to re-establish and strengthen future recovery, the legislative proposal we are discussing now implements some simplifications of the legislation on recovery. At the same time, simplification will help to make recovery more transparent, not least for citizens, and perhaps most importantly, by simplifying, we will limit the risk of facing the same challenges as we did with the EFI. The Conservative People's Party is strongly in favour of simplifying rules in the public sector, particularly in the area of taxation. That is why, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171634	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and then we go to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228171640	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the positive reception of the bill. As Minister for Taxation, I am very pleased that so many parties support the bill. I am, because the draft law is a crucial step towards achieving a well-functioning and effective recovery, in which there is surely a legal and legally sound recovery. I have a wish to repeat what I have said a number of times before, namely that, in my opinion, it is neither right nor right for other citizens to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. I can reassure the Socialist rapporteur, sir. Jesper Petersen states that this is not the expression of a new legal order agenda. That is a reasonable view. If we have a recovery system that is not working because people can think about not paying, then it has a cost to those who pay, and that is simply not fair. This must, of course, be done with respect to collective legal certainty, which I know is of great concern to the Social Democratic Party. In this case too, it may be seen as an illustration of interest to the state and to the community, but also, and that is the dimension that I put on top and in a large number of cases before the legal certainty of the community and the collective, provide legal certainty for the individual citizen. That is why it must also be done on a legal basis. It must also be noted that this has not always been the case in relation to EFI, which SKAT turned off on 8 September 2015 when it stopped all automatic recovery of public debt. One of the reasons why the EFI did not work was that the system had to take into account a wide range of special rules and a very complex regulatory framework. This is also the reason why the government, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, have agreed to launch a series of initiatives to restore recovery of public debt. And I would like to sign up to the circle of parties for the good and constructive process we have had. Moreover, it is a good negotiating climate in the circle of parties behind the investment agreement where we invest up to 7 billion. kr. and will employ up to 1,000 more employees by 2020 than those in the IRS today. I also believe that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party mentioned it. In the times when some at least present what we are doing in the Folketing and at Christiansborg, as if we were throwing mud and not talking to each other properly, are destructive and not constructive, the agreement we have, and indeed the process we have run in connection with this proposal and in connection with a number of other proposals to rebuild confidence in the tax administration, is a good example of the fact that this presentation is not correct, at least not correct, when it comes to the tax area. Then we have plenty of fights about tax policy, and there must also be room for them. But we're agreed on that, and I'm glad as tax minister that we're going to have a tax administration where the systems underneath work. I'd like to sign for that. In the light of the experience gained with the EFI, it is necessary to simplify the rules in the field of recovery and to repeal a wide range of specific rules. As several rapporteurs have said, simplifications are crucial to the development of the IT system, which we, incidentally, do not ourselves develop in the Ministry of Taxation, but which they have bought, that is Netcompany; a product which was on the shelf and which is then addressed. It has also been learned from some of the things that went wrong with the IT development of the EFI, which was certainly not the correct way to do it. And it didn't work either. However, simplification is crucial to obtaining IT support. And the focus on simplifying the new IT system has thus been a driving force for regulatory simplifications. The legislative proposal that we are dealing with first here today translates into simplifications of the basic elements and structures of the new IT system. In the future, other legislative proposals aimed at supporting the further development of the new IT system and the forward-looking administration of the recovery area may need to be put forward. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the draft law is not alone either. The government and the parties to the agreement have also agreed on a number of regulatory simplifications in this area. This concerns, among other things: the imposition of a uniform interest rate on as many types of debt as possible during recovery. This means that in default of the SU loan, therefore, when an SU beneficiary who has received a loan fails to pay off it and has defaulted on the loan and penalty charges in the same way as the majority of other public debt during recovery. This has nothing to do with the bill as such, but it has something to do with the announcement. This is done in the interests of the development and support of the new IT system and also in the interests of making it as simple as possible. Therefore, the same interest rate must apply to as many debts as possible. If I have to respond briefly to a few things that were mentioned here during the debate, then I have reassured the Social Democratic Party that no, reassured is probably not the right word by saying that my view of legal certainty is primarily based on legal certainty for the individual and not on collective grounds of legal certainty, although I recognise the arguments behind it. In the face of the Danish People's Party, I will also sign for the good and constructive progress that has been made. In relation to Enhedslisten and Mr. I can reassure Rune Lund by saying that there is nothing in this draft law that makes it possible for me, as the tax minister, to suddenly write off claims for a large amount of billions. The depreciation exercise that has been talked about will be politically negotiated, and hopefully, if we are to have a well-functioning recovery, they will lead us to agree on resolving that depreciation problem. There we may end up with a legislative proposal, but it will, of course, have to be dealt with in this Chamber. The authorisation provided for in the draft law is about assessing whether the claims are enforceable, i.e. whether they are valid. In relation to the comments made by the Alternative on the National Association of Municipalities, I have also taken note of the consultation answer that comes from KL, and I have discussions with the National Association of Municipalities on how to ensure that their desire to take over part of the recovery task is met in such a way that it works as smoothly as possible. Of course, I am also taking part in the discussions that are going on about compensation for the municipalities. This is, after all, an issue which I believe will be addressed in the context of the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities. That means it's not over with me, it's over with the Ministry of Finance. But I am in a good and constructive discussion with the National Association of Municipalities. In those words, I should like to express my gratitude for a good reception and to inform Parliament that, if there are any questions, both in this Chamber today and during the committee procedure, I shall be looking forward to answering them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172430	Thank you, and I'll let the tax minister do that right away, for sir. Jesper Petersen will ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172437	Perhaps the most important thing is to make a comment, but I think that the Minister of Taxation, in considering legal certainty, is doing a little violence on what I actually said, because my point was precisely that you have to think of both kinds of legal certainty. What I suspect is a sort of ripening by the Minister of Taxation when he stepped in, where there was a very clear focus on one type of legal certainty, namely the individual, and here there is a bill that clearly also takes account of collective legal certainty, that is to say that we have to have the money that people owe, because otherwise everyone else will pay. I think that is actually just a positive maturity, as I would have noticed in my speech. I also agree with this about the constructive relationship in the negotiations that have taken place, about reaching an agreement on this, but we have not been able to reach each other when it comes to strengthening the scope of the SKAT, and I still regret that. That is why I would also like to say that if the Minister of Taxation is now so clearly told that it was a clear mistake to do what Kristian Jensen did in his time as tax minister with the EFI system and that it has cost society dearly and the citizens dearly, then I hope that one will be willing to give higher priority to the tax administration and get it restored and that the Finance Minister will be responsive if that is something that the tax minister brings to him. So the question should really be whether there has been any change in the attitude of the government to also want to finance improvements in the SKAT other than that which has been about what we have been able to agree on so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172608	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172610	Anyway, I can tell Mr. Simpson... Jesper Petersen, that among the treasure ministers who have been there have also been a number of Social Democrats and a single radical and a few SFs in the previous government, as well as those who were in the lifetime of the VK government, I see a recognition that there were some things that were not done right and that have led to a whole series of problems that we are facing today. I do not think there is anyone, no matter what party color it is, who has had an agenda that the tax administration should not function on the contrary. However, there has been a different assessment of how to solve the recovery task, how to ensure the necessary framework for the tax administration, how much efficiency could be achieved, how much savings could be made. The things that have gone wrong have led to broad reflections, and I would like to acknowledge that. This applies to my own party, and it is also my impression that this applies to the author's party. Whether this will lead to a great deal of money being spent on control tasks, Mr. Jesper Petersen is right that we have turned in the negotiations. It has not been possible to find money for it, but I have taken note of the desire of the Social Democratic Party and of a number of other parties, and I must also acknowledge as a tax minister that there are areas where there is a need to increase control pressure. So I hope, then, that it will be possible, by common help, to find money for it in some of the negotiations we will have if not earlier, then in the Financial Law negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172742	Then we say thank you to the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170228172801	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, March 1, 2017 at 12:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
