ParlaMint-DK_20171208100020	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 52 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a cap on the annual percentage rate of charge (AOP) for quick loans of 15%. over the discount account). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100047	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100106	Thank you. When you make broad political agreements, it is given and taken. This is something you learn quickly at Christiansborg. But all the more satisfactory is that today, following on from the pesticide strategy, an agreement reached between the government, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Radical and the Social Democratic Party, we can deal with L 201, which is an unambiguous improvement in our groundwater. So I also feel optimistic that, although individual parties are outside the overall agreement, yes, today there should be clear support throughout the Folketing to protect our groundwater, where it is most vulnerable, in the so-called BNBOs, the well-drilling protection areas, in other words close to our drinking water wells. With the bill, we are taking a first step in the direction to which the parties to the agreement have committed each other, namely that we will now and now have better protection of groundwater in the BNBOs. Specifically, we are banning spray-washing sites and the handling of pesticides within the BNBO by means of the law. This reduces the risk of point pollution in areas where accidents with pesticides have the most critical impact on our groundwater, namely close to where it is extracted. It is a perfectly sensible step if you want fewer drilling to be closed in the future. Clearly, the effective protection of BNBO is an important step towards a situation in which we no longer close drinking water wells due to pollution. I can therefore say that the Social Democrats enthusiastically support the proposal, and we look forward to moving forward with the protection of our drilling protection areas and our groundwater, when we discuss at the beginning of the new year in the contract circle how, on a professional basis, we can introduce a differentiated authorisation practice for pesticides used within the BNBOs, so that we can achieve even better protection for groundwater than is the case today. In this context, it will be interesting to see to what extent we can learn from Sweden and the Netherlands, where we already have a more restrictive practice in relation to which pesticides are allowed to use close to ground water drilling. I would also like to note with great satisfaction that it has been agreed with the Minister for the Environment that he is tabling an amendment to this bill, so that it is clear that there will be a very restrictive derogation practice in relation to the law, which, of course, strengthens the protection provided by the law. Social democracy can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100334	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100342	Thank you. I just want to say that the bill is called L 102, but otherwise it's okay. This is a bill amending the law on environmental protection and the law on water supply. It is targeted area protection in order to protect groundwater from pesticides. This bill is part of the Pesticide Strategy 2017-2021 agreement, which most parties are behind. The proposal concerns the strengthening of groundwater protection in the so-called BNBOs, i.e. the drilling-related protection areas. The proposal aims to protect groundwater against pollution of the point source and includes a ban on mixing and filling pesticides and to carry out external washing of pesticide syringes, including at washing sites in BNBOs. The ban will not apply indoors in glasshouses where filling and mixing are carried out in a closed system where there can be no sewer dissipation. In the case of already established washing places, an allowance is granted. The proposal also gives the Minister for the Environment and Food the power to appoint BNBOs in a decree. Denmark has some of the best drinking water in the world, and with this proposal it gets an extra tooth, so of course the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100512	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100524	Thank you. It is very good that there is rather broad political support to take good care of our groundwater and drinking water, and with this legislative proposal, which is a follow-up to the agreement we reached earlier, it is proposed to strengthen the targeted protection of groundwater, focusing on protection against the risk of contamination by pesticides in the vicinity of drinking water wells. The proposal includes a ban on the filling and mixing of pesticides and on the external washing of pesticide syringes within the drilling protection areas, including at washing sites. It is estimated that the bill will have positive effects on the environment, minimising the risk of point pollution in the event of waste and accident and undiscovered defects in washing sites. Denmark has some of the world's best drinking water, and in Denmark we can drink the water directly from the tap. That is why we must, of course, continue to take good care of it. The Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100625	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208100633	Thank you. Today, spray poisons are found in one in four drinking water wells in Denmark, and in some municipalities, for example. Aarhus Municipality has also found residues of banned spray poisons in the drinking water wells. Each year approx. 40 water wells in Denmark close due to spray poisons. So there is no discussion that we have a very serious problem. I have to say that I am somewhat critical of the fact that this bill is being called a reinforced proposal which goes solely on banning the filling and mixing of pesticides and the washing of pesticide syringes, tractors and other equipment at washing sites in the well-stocked protection areas. It may be a small step in the right direction, but even calling it a reinforced protection may just exaggerate a little. At any rate, this measure is not at all in line with the challenge we are facing. In a few municipalities, among others: Egedal and Aarhus, we have taken the lead and have already demanded that spray-free cultivation be introduced around the vulnerable water catchment areas, but in the vast majority of the vulnerable areas that are grown, there are currently no requirements in relation to spray poisons, despite the fact that we see a large number of boreholes closed every year due to spray poison. Instead of contenting ourselves with this proposal, we should follow the progressive municipalities and take much more responsibility, so that we make a real effort to ensure our drinking water. So this effort is not just about banning the washing of spray equipment at washing sites in the drilling protection areas, but about ensuring completely spray-free cultivation in the BNBOs. There is also a large number of consultation responses which indicate that the so-called reinforced protection of groundwater is more symbolic than a real improvement. We are not part of the pesticide agreement, and we are part of it. not because we do not believe that agreement contains a serious response to the drilling-related protection areas. And I also note, as I said before, that both DANVA and Danske Vanderværker and a number of municipalities criticize the draft law we have before us today for basically inadequate. I am also critical, and we must continue to do so in committee, of how this ban is to be enforced, because the washing places are to be maintained. It's just some specific activities that can't be done in the washrooms. As far as I understand the bill, it is not the municipalities that have to control it, but the board of directors. How it's gonna go down and whether they get some extra money to do this, I think it's unclear in the bill. It is also the water consumers who have to pay the farmers who then lay down their pesticide laundries. I wonder, like DANVA, why it is not over the pesticide tax that we are paying these costs. This is a small step in the right direction. There are some answers we would like to have in committee before we take a final position, and that is what I want to say here today on behalf of the Enhedslisten. And I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they share our reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101007	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101014	We have clean groundwater in Denmark and we can drink it safely, and we must, of course, be able to continue to do so. Most of the groundwater we use for drinking water, we get under land used for agricultural production. We can safely do so, and we must be able to continue to do so. We can, because the current regulation of pesticides in the European Union is very tough, and we have even chosen to go further than EU regulation here in Denmark, because groundwater is one of the most expensive things we have. That is why we may also have the world's best acceptance principles for pesticides, which have recently even been evaluated by international experts. We also have a state of the art test and alert system with so-called VAP fields, which investigates whether approved pesticides are a danger to our groundwater. In addition, we probably also have the world's densest network of ground water monitoring drillings, which will even be closer towards 2021. The vast majority of pesticide findings above the limit value, which are then caught in this very dense network of boreholes, can be related to the use of pesticides in the past, i.e. before all the above was put into effect. If, however, a very rare time is found by an authorised agent above the limit values, then it can most often be related to point source pollutions • point sources such as: washing places or landfills. The bill here also provides improved groundwater protection because we strengthen the targeted protection of our groundwater against point source pollution by, for example. accidents associated with filling, mixing and washing pesticide syringes within the so-called borehole protection areas, also known as BNBO. The bill translates part of a broad and very reasonable political agreement on pesticide strategy towards 2021 between the government and the Folketing's other parties, with the exception of Enhedslisten and the Alternative. In other words, the government and the parties behind the agreement are at the forefront of strengthening the protection of groundwater while at the same time maintaining food production as before. The proposal here also provides a legal basis for the Minister to designate in a decree these drilling-related protection areas. In this context, it is essential for the uniform application of rules around the country that the demarcation of drilling-related protection areas should be determined in accordance with clear and objective guidelines. In the future, there will then be a greater effort to verify the designation. Of course, I am counting on the attention to be paid to agriculture in particular. However, we should certainly give agriculture plenty of time to review the map material to be prepared so that the BNBO designation does not fail in the frustrations of individual pilots. I welcome the draft law here, and I very much welcome the political agreement from which it comes. The Liberal Alliance, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101352	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101404	As the radical rapporteur in this area, Mrs Ida Auken, cannot be present, I must say on behalf of her that we can also support the bill. It is hardly a secret that if it had been for the Radical Left and we had 90 seats in the Folketing, we would have preferred a total ban on drinking water drilling to be understood as not being able to spray pesticides or discharge large amounts of nitrogen. However, we have chosen to enter into negotiations in order at least to influence government policy, and this is a step in the right direction, and with the amendments that are coming, it is a further step in the direction that we are pleased that we succeeded in achieving. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101447	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101454	A major part of the protection of our drinking water and drinking water wells against pollution is the drilling protection areas. In the SF, we would have liked to see a general ban on the use of pesticides in drilling-related protection areas, but there could not be a political majority in favour of this, and we therefore see the proposal we are discussing today, together with other restrictions to be negotiated in January, as a step in the right direction until there is a political majority that will go further in the protection of groundwater against pollution in the drilling-related protection areas. Whether or not we want a general ban on pesticides in the BNBOs, we need the bans on this proposal, namely the ban on the establishment of washing sites and the management of pesticides within the BNBOs. Accidents or defects at washing sites can pose a significant risk of point source pollution. The bans also provide for exemptions, but it is crucial for us that those opportunities are administered restrictively. That is why we have also agreed with the Minister that there will be an amendment in which it is clearly stated. However, as I have said, we hope that there will be support for the proposal from all parties in the Folketing, because the proposal is, after all, a first step towards protecting the areas close to our drinking water wells.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101615	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101625	Thank you. I think that my colleagues in the Parliamentary Chamber have given a good and thorough examination of L 102, and I come here as the raisin in the sausage end, at least almost, so I probably can't add so much news about what is in this bill, but I can tell you that the Conservative People's Party supports it because it provides increased protection for our groundwater. It is something special Danish that we have water that we can pull directly out of the underground and drink, and we also have a responsibility to pass it on to future generations. I think it is a good agreement we have made, and I would particularly like to praise the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party for agreeing to this agreement, because I know that it has required some discussions and some debates. I also think it has to be said that you have made some real concessions in the text that lies, and you can see your prints around. I think that is an expression of the desire to help influence things, and I have great respect for that. So the Conservative People's Party is also voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101725	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101731	Thank you for that President and thank the rapporteurs for their comments. I do not want to go into the substance, because that has been made quite clear. I would also like to sign for a broad agreement which now ensures for the first time that we have more active substances added, so that we can better counteract resistance, but also that we will have a strong focus on the Danish preparedness and commitment to the EU in terms of moving that agenda internationally, because that is absolutely crucial, and finally, that we naturally have strong and safe groundwater protection. So with that I look forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101803	Thank you, Minister. No, there is just a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101809	Thank you. I just want to ask the Minister how this is to be enforced when it is not the municipalities that have to go into it, and when we basically keep some washing places in the BNBOs, but just say that here you can't wash pesticides. Well, it seems to me to be incredibly difficult to make sure that this is actually going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101827	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101828	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that both the national authorities of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the municipal authorities have an interest in this being enforced as it should, because we have no interest in our washing sites causing pollution. And that is why, of course, a very clear setup is being made for how it should be enforced.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101846	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101848	Will more money be added to the area compared to those who have to control this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101852	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101854	Thank you. Now, of course, the solution is not always to send more money, which is why this is of course balanced in relation to the efforts to be made in various areas. So there will be the economy that needs to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101906	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208101923	The debate is open. I do not see that the Social Democrat rapporteur is here. Then we move on to Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102002	The bill is about introducing easier access to the installation of a capacity ceiling in high schools, which is much sought. It is done to defend outskirts gymnasiums against starvation, i.e. when they have difficulty resisting competition from major building schools. This kind of larger building school acts as a magnet for young people, but they do not necessarily have to provide a better education. Since it is in everyone's interest that youth education institutions, including, of course, general colleges, are available throughout the country and not only in the cities, it is good to try to defend the smaller outskirts of gymnasiums, and the installation of a capacity ceiling is one of the ways to defend the smaller outskirts of gymnasiums. We very much welcome this and therefore the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102109	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102121	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with L 113, which should give us better opportunities to ensure that our young people can take a secondary education, no matter where in the country they live. In fact, in some places there are a number of challenges in relation to the fact that the large colleges also become magnets and may attract many from rural areas too unnecessarily. And this bill is therefore about ensuring that this does not happen by giving the Minister an increased opportunity to create these capacity ceilings. I think all of us members of parliament sometimes experience • especially close to the summer holidays when the young people have been told where to go in high school • that there is pressure coming on us when we receive inquiries from both parents and students even though their dissatisfaction with the high school they have been offered. With the bill here, we ensure that we do not water down the little high schools and we ensure that the minister has some opportunities and a tool to better manage these things. In the Left and in our government we want a Denmark in better balance, a Denmark where it is not only attractive to live and live in the larger cities, but also to live and be able to train throughout the country. And I think this bill is an important step in the right direction, because in this way we can continue to ensure that you can also have gymnasium offers evenly distributed across the country. And that is why, of course, the Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102305	Thank you. Is that sir? Jacob Mark? No! It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102325	Thank you very much, President. It is very confusing with all the rapporteurs who are not here, but they succeeded in the end anyway. With Bill L 113, we are starting to implement the big agreement on the future organisation of secondary schools, which was concluded between seven parties in a very good cooperation in June 2016. This is quite a technical legislative proposal, I must admit, and I must therefore also admit that I have had a little difficulty in understanding all the nuances and details of the legislative proposal. However, having consulted various of my fellow rapporteurs, I think I can explain the draft law from two points of view, and these are two matters which happen to have something to do with two cities in which I either live or have lived and in which I am very fond. One is Great Heddinge, where there is a tradition of going to Køge Gymnasium, and a few years ago it happened unfortunately that it could not be done because of some capacity limits. The young people who applied to Køge Gymnasium then had to attend other high schools, which are much more difficult to reach and where there are no family traditions for you to go. This was a very problematic issue, and we will then have an indirect solution here, by allowing the announcements to be revised. The second case is Ribe, where Denmark's oldest high school founded in 1145 is located, but where there is a fear that large high schools in neighbouring towns will empty this not so big, but traditional high school for students, and we will then also have the opportunity to do something about the bill here. After all, both make a great deal of sense in view of the fact that there must be high schools in the thinner populated areas of the country and that we must safeguard the high schools that exist. It is a pragmatic solution, it is an expression of the working people's government, and that is something we can of course support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102543	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102549	Thank you. Although this is a relatively small bill and of a rather technical nature, it has nevertheless been something that we have debated in the alternative because we have had doubts about how we should deal with it. This is because the purpose is noble enough; it is a good intention to better distribute the students, the pupils, to the secondary schools located in a region, in the cities and bypassing the cities. So we support the very intention. But at the same time it is a centralisation of power, and this is not a very liberal proposal, it can be said, by a liberal minister of education, because it actually gives the Minister the power to set this capacity ceiling. If, at last, you want a different distribution to be made, then why do you not assign responsibility to the regions, which are currently on these committees and are distributing the pupils, why are they not also allowed to make that distribution on the basis of a better distribution of pupils? That's a question you could ask yourself. We do not understand why it should be a ministerial task and that the freedom that lies in the regions, after all, should be drawn to the level of ministers. So we actually see it as a very non-liberal legislative proposal, which is why we are actually very critical of it. There is also the problem that it has financial consequences for the colleges which have a capacity ceiling and which do not today have the same ceiling. In other words, if the Minister goes out and says that next year we are putting a capacity ceiling on those high schools that usually have a large share of pupils, it will have quite specific financial consequences, and I do not think this has been taken into account in the legislative proposal, because how will we meet the challenges that each high school meets there, especially in these times when the government is also cutting funding for the high schools? So we see this bill as a patch on a wound that bleeds for some other reasons, and the reasons why it bleeds are, firstly, that you cut the allowance for high schools so that there is not much money to do well with. It can be a little bit difficult to make yourself attractive as high school in e.g. rural areas, if there is not much money to do well with. Secondly, it is also a patch on a wound which, in our optics, comes from a reform of high school, which has made it difficult for high schools to create special profile studies which might make it possible to attract some of the people who today choose the popular upper secondary schools inside the cities. If this limitation had not been applied to the number of courses of study, there would have been much more freedom for secondary schools, including in rural areas, to create quite different high schools, which had some other profiles which could attract some of the pupils who would otherwise choose the upper secondary schools in the cities. So in this way, this is a completely different challenge that we have to solve than to authorise the Minister to set a capacity ceiling. I know it is a much greater task than just a small legislative proposal, so we could also vote in favour of it and say that it is better than nothing, but we have chosen to vote against it for reasons of principle, because we also opposed the reform of high school for some of the reasons I have mentioned here, including the reduction in the number of study schemes. So we'd rather freedom to high schools than this centralisation of power, and we'd like to start giving the high schools some more money so that they can do their job properly again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102918	Thank you. I have been told that the SF covers the Radicals, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208102928	Thank you. In SF, we're positive about this bill on a capacity ceiling for the country's high schools. After all, the legislative proposal is in itself an expression of increased governance of the self-serving institutions, and it is an initiative that the SF welcomes, because we believe that there is a need for increased control of the jet itself. I think that we all agree that it is important for young people to be able to choose the courses they want, that they can choose some kind of route, that is to say that there is a different and very varied offer of training to cover young people. However, I also think that the jet itself has some consequences that we need to take political stock of. With this proposal, it will be possible to take into account the future expected capacity needs and, like that, to take account of how many seats there are and how the distribution is to take place, and I believe that this bill can help to make the competition that has arisen from the jet itself less unhealthy, because there is a greater degree of central governance. I think it is worth discussing whether to restrict the self-righteousness even more. You can do that in many ways. I think it seems right now that there is a rather unhealthy competition between the institutions, where it is very much about getting as many students through as possible and attracting as many students as possible to the very institution you have, otherwise you cannot get the economy running around. I really think we should use some of the experience we have gained from the licensing system in higher education where all parties are involved and say: can we set up a system that contributes less to mass production and more to quality? This will require more governance, and I think that this bill is also pointing to that. So we'll take that up at a later stage in the SF. Another thing that is really positive about this proposal is that it solves the Stevns-Faxe challenge, as I call it, and it is not because Stevns-Faxe is the only place in Denmark where you have the challenges. It is also available in West Jutland, and it is also available in North Zealand, and it is probably also available in several places. I come from Køge myself, and that's why I call it the Stevns-Faxe challenge. There we had some students there last year, like Mr. Henrik Dahl also mentioned, has grown up in Great Heddinge or in Faxe, where it is quite natural that, both in relation to the infrastructure, in relation to the guidance provided by the public schools, if you want to attend general upper secondary educations, and in relation to the way young people act, they are looking for Køge, everyone knows that if you are down there you are looking for Køge, but because of the distance criterion it has been possible for students living either in Solrød, Greve or Ishøj, who have a wealth of different educational opportunities, to get the lead in the queue to Køge, rather than the students from Stevns and Faxe. I think that is unreasonable, because they do not have nearly as many opportunities from down there. With this proposal there is a notice which allows the distribution committees to take local special considerations on the basis of concrete estimates, and this means that it is likely that the Stevns-Faxe challenge will be dealt with in concrete terms in those places in the country where they may have the challenge, and that is very good. I have also read the hearings and I think it is a good thing that it has been made clear that both regions, regional councils and institutions can object to the capacity ceiling that the Minister must now set. I think it is important to have the opportunity to be heard out locally, because of course, as local and regional elected, you have the best knowledge of what is needed in the local area. I would just like to say that I think this proposal needs to address the challenge of having some high schools around the country that experience having a lot of pupils with other ethnic origins, especially at the Western Gymnasiums or the well-known Langkaer Challenge. This happens, of course, because we have a system in which students clash together and because the distribution committees do not have the opportunities they need to be able to spread the pupils properly. I am sorry that this proposal does not take this into account. This has already been promised a year ago, so we need to look at it in the future and do something about it. But overall, this is a really positive bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103357	Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103404	Thank you. The draft law here deals with principles for the distribution of pupils by admission to upper secondary education. In 2016 and 2017, 95% were paid. of the pupils at national level fulfilled their first priority wish by distribution to the secondary schools. Experience with the current rules, however, shows that there are still challenges, including that the availability of the general baccalaureate and hf exams is being challenged in certain outskirts. We saw that, among other things. with the students from Stevns and Faxe municipalities earlier this year who experience the absurdity that they must travel very far because Køge Gymnasium is filled with students who live closer to them. With this bill, we're helping the students who get stuck because they live farther away from high school than others. We're not gonna solve all the problems of distribution to high schools, but we're gonna get a little bit out of the way. Because it is important that in certain cases, as in the case of students from Stevns, we provide for the possibility of dispensing with the distance criterion in order to meet the wishes of a small number of applicants. Specifically, it is proposed that, inter alia, the time limit for the cap should be deleted. In future, it will be possible, in specific cases, to set a capacity ceiling without having to wait for a recommendation from the Regional Council and an opinion from the institution concerned. In this way, we give the Minister of Education an opportunity to manage and ensure that there is geographically distributed capacity throughout the country, so that all young people, regardless of their place of residence, have access to a sufficient and varied educational provision throughout the country. The Conservative People's Party can support the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103603	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103612	Thank you. I must begin by regretting that I was late for the examination of the draft law, which is, after all, the expiry of the high school agreement that we are very pleased about. It is a bill that will allow the Minister of Education to set a capacity ceiling for upper secondary education, and we support the bill. With this tool that can be used to better regulate the self-serving institutions and ensure that there is a wide range of education throughout the country, we believe that we are taking a step in the right direction. Fortunately, the vast majority of pupils today get their first priority when they choose high school after primary school, and that is of course good. But there are also challenges associated with the way pupils are distributed today. First of all, we see an increasing fragmentation between the country and the city, often driven by unequal competition between typically large secondary schools in cities and the smaller secondary schools in rural areas. Many students are looking towards the large and attractive high schools close to the cafes, although they may live closer to a smaller high school. This is a development which in the long term threatens the supply of educational establishments outside the major university towns. Secondly, we see an increasing division between pupils with a foreign background and students with a Danish family background. This is particularly a challenge for the larger cities, where there are now high schools, where the students are almost exclusively distributed according to their family's ethnic origins. In the social democracy we are deeply concerned about both trends and we want to ensure a broad and good range of educational opportunities across the country. We want students to go to school with each other across cultural and ethnic divides. That is why we also need to take more political responsibility for this development in the field of upper secondary education, including the distribution of pupils. With the capacity ceiling, we will have a good and important tool. If it is used correctly, it can help to ensure that the major colleges do not just continue to expand and build and attract the most resourceful students, while the other colleges in the local area are slowly becoming smaller and smaller. However, the capacity ceiling does not solve all the challenges. We need more tools in the toolbox and to see things in a context, for example. with the investment framework we have recently adopted and the political intentions we have that more people should choose vocational training. Finally, it is absolutely crucial that the issue of ethnic distribution is taken more seriously than it is now doing by the government and that it is addressed by us here in the Folketing. Our view is somewhat that the government is sitting on its hands; that it has pickled this case for over a year, while the division between young people with Danish and young people with foreign backgrounds just grows and grows. That is why we also want new distribution principles to be introduced which can contribute to a better distribution of pupils, where no high schools as a starting point have more than 30%. students with foreign backgrounds. We are not saying this because pupils with a foreign background are in themselves a problem, but because we do not want a parallel education system in which students with Danish roots go to some schools while pupils with parents from abroad go to others. We're going to school together. Bill No. L 113, which we are discussing today, is by no means the solution to all the challenges of the ethnic distribution of pupils. However, the capacity ceiling may be part of the solution, particularly in relation to the geographical balance, and that is why the Social Democratic Party also supports the bill as it has been presented. It is a step in the right direction, but not the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103935	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208103941	Thank you. I regret my contribution to the delay in the item. The distribution of pupils and the capacity of upper secondary education is regulated today, through the whole of the self-construction, to a far too high degree by economic market mechanisms. The way in which the flow of funds is regulated has meant that relations between educational establishments are too much dominated by competition between themselves rather than cooperation. As the taximeter system works, it becomes absolutely essential for the individual educational institution to secure as high a share of the total number of pupils in upper secondary education as possible. If more pupils can be attracted, it allows for development and expansion, and vice versa, a decreasing number of pupils can lead to limitations and limitations. And the worst thing is that the limitations and limitations can have a self-enhancing effect if, for example, they are: undermines opportunities for the provision of studies and electives. The whole basic problem, with this economic market management of the colleges, is not specifically addressed by the present draft law, but I would say that it is aimed at reducing some of the negative effects of the whole taximeter management, and we think that is very positive. With the proposed strengthening of capacity management, it will be possible to stem a development in which colleges in large cities expand and simply turn up their pupil numbers to an extent which will have the secondary effect that smaller secondary schools typically in rural areas are undermined financially because they are depopulated for pupils. It is incredibly important to have stronger capacity management if we are to ensure that there is an adequate and varied provision of training for all young people throughout the country, as the government's proposal states. I think it is the case that if we do not restrict market management in this area, in some areas it will be extremely difficult to maintain local high schools. And in view of the fact that we think this is a problem today, it can be said that the problem will grow quite considerably in the years to come; it will, when the new grade requirements in the field of upper secondary education come into force and will probably disappear, it is at least the Ministry of Education's assessment 9 per cent. of the total number of pupils in upper secondary education, and further reinforced it will be when we get the sharp decline in the youth years, which is predicted to reduce the number of young people in 16-19 years by 25,000 when we reach 2030. So Enhedslisten supports the intention of the proposal not because we believe that it solves the basic problems of high-school capacity management, but because we think it is a step in the right direction. On the other hand, when we move from the intention to the concrete proposal, I would like to say that we are surprised that the government is only dealing with the capacity problem in general secondary schools and not in the other two-year secondary schools. If this is as important as the government's proposal suggests, and as we also agree that we ensure that there is capacity management at Stx, how can it be that it has no impact on vocational secondary education? We find this strangely inconsistent, and I would therefore call on the government to take the initiative as soon as possible to change the rules for student admission also on htx and hhx, so that they are subject to exactly the same rules for coordination, capacity and pupil distribution as those which are and are set up for general secondary schools. Another problem in the draft law is the proposal that the Minister of Education should be able to establish a capacity ceiling without prior consultation of the educational institutions concerned and of the regional councils. The starting point must, of course, be this: I also understand the government's proposal that the capacity ceilings should be set in good time so that there is time for proper and sensible local planning. I would also like to say that we are open to the view that, in specific cases, there may be an opportunity for the Minister to act very quickly, but I think that opening the way to the complete removal of the right of consultation both for educational institutions and for regional councils is unwise, and I think that it is going too far. I would therefore urge the Minister to amend that part of the proposal. We are therefore prepared to have very short consultation periods, but to remove completely the right of consultation for the institutions and to remove the right of consultation for the regional councils, which we believe must, I believe, play a central role together in relation to the capacity management. I think that is to run over the whole of the local right of influence. As I have said, we support the intention of the proposal and I hope that during the committee procedure we can find a sensible solution to the consultation issue and that we can get a commitment from the Minister that the government is prepared to extend the provisions on capacity ceilings to include vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208104512	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208104520	I would like to start by expressing my thanks to the parties supporting this bill to extend the scope for establishing capacity ceilings for general secondary schools. When we reached an agreement in the upper secondary school circle on strengthened upper secondary education on 3 June 2016, we agreed that further to the agreement, new principles should be laid down for the distribution of pupils by admission to general upper secondary education. This bill contributes to addressing one of the challenges we have experienced in the area of student distribution, namely that the availability of the general baccalaureate and hf-examination were challenged in certain outskirts. We see in certain places that young people prefer to go to higher schools in the larger cities rather than to the upper secondary school in their local area, and this may have the consequence that the secondary schools in the larger cities are growing and thereby hollowing out the student base in the outskirts, so that in the longer term it can be difficult to maintain general gymnasium supply in some outskirts. First of all, the draft law means that the time limit for determining capacity ceilings in force will be abolished and, in exceptional cases, it will now be possible to set a capacity ceiling without waiting for the recommendation of the Regional Council and the opinion of the institution concerned. In addition, the scope of the authorisation is extended to a capacity ceiling. This means that, following the proposal, a ceiling could also be set with a view to providing adequate and varied training for all young people throughout the country. Finally, it is clarified that a ceiling could be set both in relation to the total capacity of the next school year and in relation to the expected capacity needs of the following school year. The draft law strengthens the ability of my and subsequent education ministers to ensure that there is a high school capacity geographically distributed across the country. This will mean that all young people, wherever they live, have access to a sufficient and varied supply of training. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today on an issue which I know concerns us all. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208104730	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208104745	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208104810	Today we are debating a resolution from the Enhedslisten on a state grant pool to promote the construction of general youth housing. The proposal is that the state finances half of the municipal basic capital grants for general youth housing in 2018 and 2019 with a framework of 10,000 housing. A youth housing undertaking in 2018 and 2019 will have an estimated purchase price of approx. 1,1 million kr. This will lead to a total investment of 11 billion in the construction of 10,000 youth housing units. kr. At the same time, this will involve significant public expenditure on a total of approx. 4.3 billion kr. That is not an insignificant amount. At the same time, the proposal does not provide for the full financing of state expenditure on the proposed scheme, where even with the inclusion of the proposed source of funding there will be a shortage of some 0.5 billion. kr. Of course, it is problematic to impose expenditure on the government that is not covered. At the same time, when the proposers want the state to pay part of the municipal basic capital, it must be based on the assumption that the basic capital is today too high and that it is not cheap enough for the municipalities to build youth housing. I do not agree with that. The law's starting point is that a municipality has a basic municipal capital of 14 per cent. Until 2018, it has been agreed between the municipalities and the state that the basic municipal capital has been reduced to only 10%. Finally, I would like to point out that there are more than 250 000 students at national level and that only approx. 75,000 of these live in real study homes. It goes without saying that there is no simple solution, which consists merely of the accelerated establishment of several supported youth housing units. I would very much like to see the establishment of supported housing not seen as the only way to create solutions for students. Fortunately, many private investors have realised the demand for study accommodation. The challenge, however, is that the construction of a larger number of new study accommodations takes a long time, from the decision to the accommodation being ready to move in. There is no doubt that there is a need for more study homes and housing for young people in the larger Danish cities. The need will be increasing in the future, and I would like to agree with Enhedslisten that we must promote the construction of more housing for young people and students. I would also like to say that the government is ready to discuss politically what we can do in this area. In other words, I can sympathise with the aim of the Enhedslisten's proposal, but I do not agree with the method and the government must therefore reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105111	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105115	Thank you. I am glad, then, that the Minister is ready for a political debate and recognises that there is a need, and that need is significant. I think it is very positive that 77 000 additional places of study have been created over the last 12 years. During the same period, there have been only about 13,000 student accommodations. If you look at the Greater Copenhagen area, that is where it is seriously wrong. While you have managed to build a certain part in Aalborg, Aarhus and Odense, it lags in the Greater Copenhagen area, and it is not only Copenhagen, it is also other municipalities in the Copenhagen area. If you look at the trend, it is an increase in study places of 31,000, while at the same time 1,600 study homes have been built over the past 12 years. That is where the problem should be resolved. So I would really like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not see the great need for something to be found to encourage the extra construction of study homes in the Greater Copenhagen area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105219	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105221	Yes, indeed, and I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in that Copenhagen is a separate problem and a separate challenge. In Copenhagen there is a red majority. Enhedslisten has been part of the red majority for decades. The Enhedslisten holds the current government in power and is part of the current regime. In Copenhagen you have a rule that in new residential areas, the average size of each apartment must be 95 m2, and it is clear that if you build a youth residence of 25 or 30 m2 in a building, other apartments must be equivalent to 150 or 170 m2 in order for the average size to come down to 95 m2. That's a problem. We also have a challenge in Copenhagen in relation to the local plan for Nordhavn. Here the local plan says that 100 youth housing must be built on a particular site. One contractor has said he wants to build 280, but it forbids the local plan, and Enhedslisten has not taken the initiative to change the local plan so that there can be 280 study accommodations instead of 100.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105319	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105321	The Enhedslisten in Copenhagen has helped to ensure that the construction stop, which has been on general youth housing for many years, has been lifted and general youth housing has begun to be rebuilt. I'm not talking about this as just a problem for the City of Copenhagen. I see it as a major Copenhagen problem because there is also a strong growth in study places at Frederiksberg and in Lyngby-Taarbæk, and there are limits to what can be built in Copenhagen. That is why I think we should get our act together in the Greater Copenhagen area and find new solutions. That's what you do in other parts of the country. You try to make roofs above your head-guarantee and that kind of thing and work together several municipalities. So I don't share the Minister's approach to it, that is to say you have to hang the City of Copenhagen on this. It is a major Copenhagen problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105407	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105409	I agree that other municipalities in Greater Copenhagen can contribute to solving this problem. However, it would be good if the largest of the municipalities and where Enhedslisten has power went first and said: We do not need rules that new housing should average 95 m2 because it prevents the construction of suitable study accommodation; we do not need rules that only 100 study accommodation can be built on a plot in Nordhavn when there is a contractor who wants to build 280 on the same plot. I think that the Enhedslisten should sometimes take the lead and not just require others to leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105440	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and that is why it is now the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Kaare Dybvad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105452	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten suggests here that we make it cheaper to build general youth housing in 2018 and 2019 and do so by halving the municipal basic grant. The intention of this proposal is that we in the Social Democratic Party agree precisely that more youth housing is needed and that more general youth housing is actually needed. We ourselves have put forward a proposal to make it easier to build general housing in general, including general housing for young people. We have proposed that the basic capital subsidy could be made flexible so that it could be varied in relation to the price and size of housing, as has also been proposed by the government earlier this year. We also think that we should look at how it could be made cheaper to build youth housing in relation to today's requirements. Modular construction could be an option, and one could also look at what is required for bathrooms, toilets and kitchens, i.e. whether it is connected, in view of the fact that the young people are actually quite fond of those homes where there are very small kitchens and in some cases no kitchen at all, i.e. that there is the possibility as a complement to other forms of youth housing. So, overall, we believe that it would be possible to get a lot out of going in with KL and the National Association of Housing Companies and try to see how to build some cheaper youth housing at all. But all of this seems to us to be fundamental in the social democracy to be included in the housing agreement to be renegotiated next year. We really think that this is the right place to negotiate initiatives in the area of housing. I also think we have the opportunity to look at the general housing area under one: the large renovation deficit, which is due to a lack of funds in the Landsbygningsfonden, the housing social effort, the possibility of mixing housing forms. We do not think these issues are addressed in this proposal. That is why, unfortunately, we must oppose it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105710	There is just one comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105714	I find it a little creepy that the Social Democrats end up concluding that they are opposed to the proposal. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not recognise that we have this huge backlog in relation to youth housing. And in the Copenhagen area it is massive, but I have noted in the daily press during the week that there are also places on Zealand where it is pointed out that you could actually use some more youth housing, for example. in Kalundborg. I was a little surprised that they actually have that problem too. So I think there is a need for some means to be found where the municipalities have a freer framework for building more, and then leave it to the municipalities to decide where they want to build. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not see that there is an acute problem. We also have the possibility, if you are a little optimistic, that it will be possible to be included in the Finance Act, because there is not yet a financial law in the country. And the Danish People's Party has not had the floor yet, so there is, of course, an opportunity for it to come in here during the afternoon. Does the rapporteur not think that we should resolve the problem as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105820	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105821	In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that there is a gap in the general area, which we must do something about where we must ensure that we build more housing also in relation to general youth housing and, at the very least, youth housing. And, as the rapporteur knows, we also have mayors sitting in cities such as Aalborg and Odense, who offer guarantees to young people in relation to being able to have a youth residence. This has not been possible in Copenhagen for many different reasons, but in my optics among others. for the reason that in Copenhagen there is a majority in the town hall, which is against building many places where you could otherwise build more homes. So, in municipal terms, we're putting a lot of effort here. And it is true that Christiansborg's side also needs to do more, but the Social Democrats believe that we should tackle this when we renegotiate this agreement next year. As far as the Finance Act is concerned, I do not think we should have too much hope that these parts will be added at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105915	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105916	Well, one can of course say that the renegotiation of a housing contract may lead to some solutions. I should not reject that at all, and we are fully in favour of testing it. However, I also think that what the rapporteur has proposed here, i.e. whether you can imagine that you can cheapen some construction, is interesting. So it could also be a process in which, before the closed negotiations, we enter into an open dialogue with the players and look at how we can solve the problems and involve more people. I think that would actually be a good process, rather than just waiting to have some negotiations behind closed doors. Can the rapporteur see any possibilities in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105954	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208105956	I certainly can, and I have to be the first to go into that work. Now the questioner must shake his head if I am wrong, but I remember it as if Enhedslisten is part of the housing agreement that lies there. After all, it is not that closed. But let us finally look at the possibilities for involving more people in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110013	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Per Nørhave, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110022	Thank you. The Danish People's Party thinks it is very good that Enhedslisten puts a lack of student accommodation on the agenda. We welcome proposals that can provide proper conditions for our students. The Danish People's Party is incredibly happy that over the last few years we have had these approx. 70 000 new places of study, and in this connection we recognise the need for new study accommodation or youth housing. It is very good, not only for society, but also for young people, that there is a great interest in education. After all, education is crucial to the future of our young people. We're just going to have to deal with these c. 70,000 places of study should be aware that the young people who have study places or training places at the local masters of crafts are also included. That means they're close to home. I know that in my own municipality several different projects are under way to build general housing in 2018, where youth housing is being built at the same time, precisely because we have recognised the need for this type of housing in the municipality. The idea that the municipalities should receive financial compensation, or rather have a lower cost, because the building of these homes is of course nice for the municipality fund, no doubt about it, but in the Danish People's Party we are just sceptical about whether a single extra student residence will be built just because the municipality's expenses will be slightly smaller. It is still the largest part of the funding that has to come from elsewhere, and it is probably of great importance for how many or how few dwellings of this type are being built. At the same time, the resolution lags behind with regard to the financing of this pool. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that the immediate cost of this pool is estimated and at the same time it is written that the estimate is related to uncertainty that would amount to about 570 million. kr. plus current expenditure in the form of net annual expenditure of the order of 60-70 million. kr. This estimate is also subject to a number of uncertainties, as the proposal says. In order to finance the pool or some of it, it is proposed to abolish the corporate scheme in relation to the housing of related family members, and this will, according to the Ministry of Taxation, generate an income of between 125 and 250 million. kr. Even there's a very big jump. This means that in the worst case scenario the net cost will be over half a billion. kr. and, at best, in the region of 400 million. kr., for which funding must then be found. The Danish People's Party does not believe that subsidies of this magnitude will result in an initiative being taken to start building additional study accommodation around the municipalities, which is why the Danish People's Party cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110322	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110331	As far as funding is concerned, we have asked what the abolition of the parental purchasing system would cost less to the Treasury, and that is between 125 and 250 million. kr. a year. And then we have put forward a proposal here where we estimate the annual cost to be between 60 and 70 million. kr. This means that we have funding that is twice as large or four times as large in these round figures as the financing needs we have calculated. So we think that this proposal is overfunded, although we know that there is uncertainty about it. So it can be said that if the municipalities build some smaller dwellings than they normally do, then the cost will be less than what is assumed, and this is, in fact, a little a trend. However, I am glad that the rapporteur is in favour of drawing attention to a problem that has arisen and that solutions must be found to it. We see that there must be a connection between finding a study and having a suitable accommodation. Does the rapporteur agree with that approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110434	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110439	Well, of course, and that is what I started with, namely that of course we agree with that. Because it is crucial that students have a good place to stay and study so that they can concentrate on the studies, also to perhaps reduce study time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110451	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110454	Thank you. We then share that view, and then I think that we have a political task in looking at the map and looking at where it is that the task is carried out by local authorities. It seems that, for example, we are not going to be able to do anything about it. in Aalborg has managed to go to build quite a lot, while the number of study places is increasing, for example. in the Greater Copenhagen area, the task has not yet been completed. Does the rapporteur see that we have a role to play in ensuring that the problem is solved in all the places where we have a growth in study places, by also increasing student accommodation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110529	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110533	Thank you. Yes, of course. Well, we changed the planning act in 2016, when the proportion of general housing in the settlement was increased, so it could be 25%. of the settlement, and of course it is also youth residences and study homes. Whether it has worked yet and whether more have been built? This might suggest that it does not just happen in Copenhagen, but the law may also have to be properly implemented before we can see any results from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110555	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Britt Bager, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110603	The debate on youth housing has been going on for many years. It is a subject that fills a lot, especially in the major study cities such as Copenhagen and Aarhus. That is why we in the Left also support the government's cooperation with the KL on general housing. With Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution here, the government is required to fund half of the municipal basic capital grant for general youth housing in 2018 and 2019. We in the Left cannot support that. This is partly due to the fact that the basic capital is negotiated by the municipality agreement between the State and the KL, and we in the Left see many advantages in maintaining that form of agreement. In addition, the creation of the 10,000 extra-supported youth housing proposed by Enhedslisten will involve a significant public expenditure of a total of 4.3 billion. kr. according to calculations from the Ministry of Housing. At the same time, the additional costs for the State will be 660 million. kr. could not be covered by a dismantling of tax benefits through the use of the Parental Purchase Business Scheme, which the Enhedslisten otherwise proposes as a source of funding. That source of funding will only generate a revenue of 125-250 million. kr. Having said that, I am pleased that the municipalities are already responding to the signals of a lack of supported youth housing, and private builders are also setting up new housing for young students to a large extent. We in the Left agree that there is a problem about the major study cities like Aarhus and Copenhagen, but to solve it in the way that Enhedslisten proposes, we are not enthusiastic about. It is no secret that there is a great demand for general study accommodation, and I welcome all relevant inputs. However, the Left cannot support this proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110826	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110829	I am glad that the rapporteur from the Left can see that there really is a problem, and then, as politicians, we must work to ensure that it is resolved. The Left then does not like the funding that Enhedslisten is proposing here and says that according to calculations from the Ministry of Housing there is a under-financing here of 4.3 billion. kr. I'd like to know if it's 4.3 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for Bager Britt report.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110903	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110907	I have received a note that total funding will cost 4.3 billion. kr., and thus Enhedslisten's proposal is very, very underfunded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110916	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110919	It will be interesting to see that figure in the committee's proceedings. Because if it is distributed over 40 years, it is just over 100 million. kr. By abolishing the company scheme, it will generate revenue of between 125 million. kr. and 250 million kr. And then it doesn't look so bad; then it sort of hangs together. I am surprised at the calculation, but it is often the case when you make good suggestions: then the ministries are trying to find some hair in the soup that makes it impossible for it to hang together. But regardless of what Enhedslisten says, there is a problem that needs to be resolved. And I fully agree that we need to discuss it further and find political solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110953	Thank you, and that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208110957	I can say that whatever the amount, we in the Left are not in favour of abolishing the parental purchasing system in any way whatsoever. I don't care if it's worth 125 million. kr. or 250 million kr., we think it is an excellent arrangement. We think it would be better to look at some of the other options. Among other things: In the City of Copenhagen, you could start by abolishing the requirement that an average general dwelling should be 95 m 2 It spans the way to build some small housing for students with a low rent. At least it's a place where Enhedslisten can start by looking at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111033	Thank you to Mrs Britt Bager. At the moment, there is no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, so that is Mr. Roger Courage Matthiesen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111100	Thank you. We are in the process of B 14, which is a proposal for a parliamentary decision on a state grant pool to promote the construction of general youth housing 2018 and 2019. Berlingske Tidende has this week brought an article describing how up to one in three of the new students in Copenhagen has no roof over their heads in the future and is in an uncertain housing situation. And it is clear that when young people are at home with sweaty palms, palpitations, insecurity and melody of thought, and it is not even tied up in the studies and examinations, but just having a place, a safe base, in order to handle the studies that you are fortunate to have entered, that is something we must have contained. One of the good tools we have for this is to table motions for resolutions in the Folketing, and this proposal is, as I see it, just as much a proposal for debate by the proposers, which also says that they are open to funding and to speak out. That is why the alternative is positive as a starting point. There is an increasing lack of housing for students in Denmark, and it is quite clear that there is a connection between a good place to live and then a meaningful study life, where you have the opportunity to perform at the best level you can now. It is a municipal responsibility, and here there is a lever for the municipalities. I think we should continue to talk about funding in committee. But from the outset we are positive about the resolution and we look forward to discussing it further. That is actually what the alternative has to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111303	Thanks to the alternative. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Sir. Villum Christensen will come later, so that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111320	Thanks to Enhedslisten for, like the rest of us, making sure that young people can have a youth home where they have trouble finding it. The radical rapporteur could not be here today, so I have been asked to say that we in the Radicals have a few questions on this proposal before we decide, because we are a little sceptical, I would like to report out. And that's because of a number of relationships. It is not that we do not want more youth housing to be built, but the question is: what have several rapporteurs actually suggested to us whether this proposal will actually lead to it? I am thinking here of the fact that one of the places where we have great challenges is indeed in the metropolitan area, as the Enhedslisten rapporteur also said. I have been told a lot of money on the coffin floor of the City of Copenhagen, and the question is whether what prevents the construction of more youth housing is no longer either the construction ceiling, which applies, or the lack of space or planning laws or other factors than it is actually additional financial resources from the state. In addition, as has been said, funding is a little fragile. We support the Enhedslisten's proposal, and as far as I remember, Enhedslisten also had it back in time, but unfortunately it was rejected here in the Folketing, and we may not be able to spend that money until there is a majority that is able to provide it. So there we also have a small outstanding issue, although on the part of the Radicals we could actually support that funding proposal. We are going to ask a little whether this will actually solve any problems and if not, we will not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111502	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111505	Thank you for your positive comments. I think there is good reason to look at whether the funding problems that exist in the municipalities are different. It is true that there are some municipalities which, because of their economy, cannot build any more. However, this might help to open the eyes to other municipalities, which might be easier to build. I really think that the task is to find a solution in the Greater Copenhagen area, so that it is not only the three municipalities where the majority of the educational institutions are located, but that it may also be other municipalities which help to ensure that there is some kind of housing guarantee in the Greater Copenhagen area. I really think that the Copenhagen area should be inspired by what has been going on in Aarhus and Aalborg for many years, where you have different roofs over your head guarantees when the students start and where you have really built a lot. You haven't finished the job yet, but after all, you've come a long way. So a discussion in committee on what the barriers are in the different types of municipalities around the plant ceiling and that kind of thing, I think would actually be a good process to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111608	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111612	We want to be a part of that. In fact, I share the view that the capital municipalities should come up with a comprehensive plan in this area. So all the other parts of the country have been able to do so under the current rules, and that also leads me to ask: is this a joke about a lack of cooperation, or is it a question of the state having to put more money into it? I'm not sure that's the last of it. It is clear funds that are needed, and I am certainly not aware of the fact, but it is possible that Enhedslisten has information that I do not have, and that is also why I have a somewhat inquisitive approach that this is what is going on for the municipalities that are outside the City of Copenhagen, i.e. that they should be in financial trouble. Now I am elected in Northern Zealand. I do not have the impression that it is in this way a lack of liquidity that is the challenge there, but it is possible that there are other local communities where that is the challenge. In any case, I just think that we should think a little before we spend substantial funds, for which we do not have solid funding, in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111715	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111719	Well, it is like questioning whether more will be built if our proposal is adopted here. I believe that if the municipalities, which have a priority to build more general youth housing, had the prospect that they could build twice as much for the same price, they would do so. I am quite convinced, for example, that this is the case. could come up with in Aarhus. If you could afford to build more at the same price, you would start. However, I think it is fair that we should have this process and try to find out what these barriers are, but also to argue that this task is something on which new solutions need to be found in the Greater Copenhagen area, because the development that is going on is not acceptable with more and more study places, but no more study homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111757	Thank you. And the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111801	Well, as long as it takes place within a responsible financial framework and as long as we are sure that this can actually lead to something, even within the plant ceilings and macro-economic framework for which we are working, we would like to have that discussion, because we are in fact in agreement with the need to do something; we just want to be sure that it is the right thing before we say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111822	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208111837	Since the SF rapporteur in this area could not be here, I am giving the speech, but of course I am happy to accept questions. Today we are negotiating a proposal from Enhedslisten to build 10,000 general housing in 2018-19 via a state grant pool of 570 million. kr. This will of course benefit the many students who find it difficult to find study accommodation, and the municipalities will have half as much expense as they have to spend 5%. rather than the current 10%. I really think there is a duality in this proposal. On the one hand, it is a very sympathetic proposal to make it cheaper to fund housing, and on the other hand, there is also the positive effect of abolishing the tax benefits of parent purchase, that is to say, the so-called corporate scheme. It is something that I myself, as a tax rapporteur, have been very critical of, so we are actually funding state funds, that those who can already afford to buy apartments for their children even receive tax advantages. This is a development that we can see particularly in the large cities, which means that capital-intensive parents are involved in whether or not they want to push up housing prices. There's a huge social inequality in this, because of course you have to have the opportunity to buy parents. And it helps to push up housing prices, especially in the big cities. There's a huge social battle side to it. And then I simply think it is unfair that a few tricks should be able to make both money on the housing market and at the same time have it supported by some unfair tax advantages. So, whether this resolution had come or not, the SF itself has proposed and still believes that we should at least have the company scheme reviewed, but also want it completely abolished. So in itself we support that part. And using the proceeds of this proposal as a starting point, we can also support it. We would like to see some of the calculations in the committee's work and, as Mrs Britt Baker mentioned, perhaps there is some disagreement about the figures. However, the purpose of the motion for a resolution, and also the financial aspect, can be well supported by the SF with the knowledge we now have. But we look forward to discussing it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112153	Thank you. Although, of course, we agree that the major educational cities have challenges in this area, we cannot support the proposal for many of the reasons mentioned by several of the rapporteurs. I am not going to repeat the question of the rather fragile financing, but would like to raise a small warning in relation to the fact that in here, the Folketing goes out and says that now the municipalities need it and that. I think it was the radical rapporteur who raised the question: does this give any effect at all? Are the financial problems in the municipalities that have to decide? I haven't seen 10 or 20 mayors saying: we need to get this basic supplement down; then we're ready to build. I simply do not believe that there is any correlation between cause and effect with regard to what is in the cards in relation to the proposal as it is formulated here. There are quite a lot of other things that are going on, as we have heard in this debate. So this thing about going out and saying that we need to spend so much money and get involved in municipal self-government, which is actually a contractual relationship in relation to the summer municipal agreements, we don't think it's a way of doing it. And then it's violent to talk about 10,000 homes. The big hammer gets hit from in here, and it's really, really, really much money. I can say that my own committee in Slagelse, which is such a medium-sized training town, promised 48 residences built on a completely private basis only on Monday. So there are many other ways that this can be done. So with these comments, we agree that there is a challenge, but this is not the right method.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112354	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112400	It is true that it is possible to go for the private sector to build the study homes. I have previously received some figures from the Minister of Housing, which clearly indicates that if it is an apartment of 40 m2, there will be a difference of 1,000 DKK. in rent per month, if it is a general dwelling in relation to a privately owned dwelling. So we are out in something where the SU cannot cover the rent, if the accommodation is privately built, so it is at least in many places in the larger cities if it is new construction. It doesn't add up. That is why we are pointing out in this proposal that there must be a massive approach to general study accommodation. Now the rapporteur says that the municipalities do not have a need, but this is a pool, and if the municipalities do not think they need to build more youth housing, they do not, of course, seek the pool. It's as simple as that. However, it has only been observed that the refugee residences which were possible for the municipalities to build and where there was a framework of DKK 10,000. per So some 8,000 of them were built. So it has been tested in the past that if you reduce the basic capital subsidy, there is, in fact, an opportunity for the municipalities to apply and solve a local task. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that this was the case with the housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112516	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112519	It's possible that's how it was. But in assessing whether there is a need, I think it is a little important to hear what the mayors think about it. And I am quite sure that we would have made our demands when the municipal agreements were negotiated, rather than saying from here that this is exactly the method that is crucial. As I said in my speech, there are a great many factors that determine how this problem can be resolved, and we have heard a lot about how Copenhagen is setting itself apart. I won't repeat that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112551	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112554	The proposal states that Enhedslisten is not opposed to negotiating alternative funding for a youth home kick start. And if it is the case that this afternoon the rapporteur can get it into the financial agreement, which is so late that it is almost a Danish record, then we are quite open to that being the solution to it. We just think that the rapporteur should proceed with this during the afternoon if it is the case that there will be a financial agreement this year. So this debate is important because we have a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112632	I do not think it would be helpful for the current negotiations to slam another 0.5 billion. kr. Upstairs. Now I see that the Minister for Finance has arrived and he does not seem to disagree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112642	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208112659	Sometimes one can be in doubt when one has had the debate on a motion for a resolution, about what it was actually about. Therefore, I would just like to point out that it is a draft parliamentary resolution on a state grant pool to promote the construction of general youth housing in 2018 and 2019; a proposal that the Danish Parliament requires the government to finance half of the municipal basic capital grant for general youth housing in 2018 and 2019 with a framework of 10,000 housing. And I am glad that the Minister for Finance is here, so that it is possible to draw it into the financial law negotiations, which are as late as ever in the history of Denmark, and that offers an additional opportunity for the debate here today. In the last 12 years, some 70,000 new study places have been created, but only 13,500 study homes have been built. This development has led to a very great need for study accommodation. In 2016, Danish Students and Student College Councils have documented that the existing residences are less than 25 per cent. of the residences of the students. Students who have obtained accommodation are increasingly staying for as long as they can get to, i.e.: for three months after completion of their training. In 2016, Danish Construction estimated that there was an urgent need for 24,000 homes for the new students. However, this is not in line with the planned construction in the municipalities. Under one, the municipalities committed 1,778 youth housing in 2016 and planned to commit to building 2,862 youth housing in 2017. In June 2017, only 640 homes had been committed. That is why the Enhedslisten has tabled this motion for a resolution. We are facing a major problem which the municipalities do not seem to solve within the current framework. This lack of housing means that many students spend a lot of effort and time and money solving a poor housing situation rather than concentrating on the studies. It ultimately leads to unnecessary apostasy and waste of society's resources. There is therefore a need for action on the part of the Danish Parliament in order to boost youth housing. This is why Enhedslisten proposes this youth residence kickstart, which can lead to the construction of 10,000 general youth housing in 2019 and 2018. In accordance with the rules in force, 10% of the budget is financed. of the purchase price of general housing with basic municipal capital. Specifically, Enhedslisten proposes that the funding be halved so that the basic municipal capital is only 5 per cent. for two years instead of the current 10%, and this must be done by creating a state subsidy pool. This means that the municipalities will have a much greater incentive to promote youth housing in the next two years. The subsidy model we have proposed here is identical to the refugee housing agreement concluded between KL and the government in 2016, and this agreement has so far resulted in the construction of 8,000 small housing units, which are to a certain extent used for refugees, in the municipalities. There is a certain uncertainty about the economy in this, and it is based, among other things, on this. In this respect, the Minister of Taxation has outlined that abolishing the parental purchasing system would generate revenue for the Treasury of between 125 million. kr. and 250 million kr. It is, in fact, a lot of money every year, which is currently a form of state subsidies to the parents who choose to buy a home for their students children, and I cannot understand why you can use the corporate scheme right there. So: Why make it a business that a parent wants to help his child with a home? It has nothing to do with what should apply to that kind of thing. I understand that there are parents who want to help their children, but that the state should be, what to say, co-financing, I think is quite unreasonable. That system should therefore be abolished. It will then provide a revenue which could be used to increase construction. If we have the right figures, then a committee procedure will have to be clarified. We have estimated that by building these 10,000 homes, the annual cost will be 60-70 million. kr.; it depends to a large extent on how large housing municipalities build, and we cannot know that in advance. At the same time, we have made it clear that we are completely open to looking at whether there could be another funding, but basically the main purpose of the proposal is to find a solution to this youth housing problem. Not only can you point the finger at the City of Copenhagen and say they have to solve everything, because if you look at the statistics and look where there is an increasing number of study places, you will see quite correctly that over the last 12 years there has been a large increase right in Copenhagen, but there has also been a large increase in Frederiksberg, and that has also been out in Lyngby-Taarbæk. It is, of course, very good for students to apply, but there is also a task to secure accommodation for students and to find a solution in the Greater Copenhagen areas. I think it might be interesting to look a little more closely at whether this very poor housing situation in the Copenhagen area means that there is a greater dropout in the studies in the Copenhagen area than there is in Aalborg, Aarhus and Odense, as well as to establish whether this major housing problem in the Greater Copenhagen area has the negative impact. It could also be interesting to get a kronor and ear on what it really costs students to stop mid-terms in their studies. I also think there is a job to do the dialogue with the newly elected city councils, so you take it up there and see if you can find new solutions. Some people have pricked us and said that Enhedslisten has a special responsibility in Copenhagen. Yes, we have, and I would like to continue to engage in a dialogue with our mayor, who covers this area, to see if new solutions can be found. We'd love to do that. But I also think we have a task to look at if there could not be some municipalities in the Greater Copenhagen area that should also take that process. It doesn't have to be bad to live in a studio in Ballerup and study at Frederiksberg or in Copenhagen when there is access to public transport in the Greater Copenhagen area. I think that the distances and access to public transport in the Greater Copenhagen area mean that the solution is not just something to be created at Copenhagen City Hall, but something to be taken seriously in the Greater Copenhagen area. Based on the figures we have, we have to say that there are other cities in Denmark that take this seriously, they have built up massively, and I think that Aalborg is the place where you have been best at picking up the glove. We also see that Aarhus has done a lot, but the task has not been solved. There is still a substantial need for youth housing in Aarhus. It is important that we take this debate locally and give priority to allocating funds to it, but in this Parliament we could, in fact, help to create a good solution if, for a few years, we halved the costs for the municipalities in connection with the construction of study homes. I would like to thank you for the debate. After all, this is going on in committee and there will be some questions about the economy that will be affected. This will also be in order to clarify what barriers there are, in the individual municipalities, depending on the actual economy. And we should not forget that this is not just about the largest cities. I have noted that there are also towns on Zealand, which are far away from Copenhagen, which have spoken that they also need youth housing. If you then make pools in the form of what Enhedslisten has proposed here, you are talking about something that provides a better framework, some better opportunities for the municipalities, which they can apply to if they think it is the right framework. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208113530	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208113557	The debate is open and I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208113610	It is the case that expenditure and finance policy are regularly organised by a majority of the Folketing. They do so in the context of the annual Finance Act, and they do so in the context of the political agreements we conclude during the year. In fact, I think that is a sound principle. It is a principle that one constantly looks at what status in the Danish economy is, how employment is going, whether there is a shortage of labour, signs of bottlenecks, or whether there is spare capacity in the economy, whether there is a possibility of supporting employment by putting a little more coal on public finances. That's how we've been doing it for so many years. We have the atmosphere in the economy, and then we have set up fiscal policy to suit it. This is what caused the then VK government, when Denmark was hit by the crisis in 2008 and 2009, to increase public consumption, put coal on and hold hands under employment by making sure to spend some more money. On the other hand, in times when things have gone well, a little has been taken the other way, a reduction in the debt has been made, a possible surplus has been made and a payment made to the debts that may be so that Denmark was well equipped. We have acted, we have made political decisions, we have acted. I think it should also be forward-looking. I think it is important that economic policy can be reconciled with the challenges we face, both in the short and in the long term. That is why I will insist that this is important for the future. Secondly, I would like to correct a fundamental misunderstanding which the proposers, the Social Democrats, and perhaps most of the left, continue to subscribe to. In fact, it is not the case that more costs per person are incurred. automatics equals more welfare. It is not true that the resolution says that consumption growth corresponding to demographic features will reflect the current level of welfare. The demographic trait represents a level of expenditure, not a level of welfare. Welfare is measured by much more than just what amounts you spend in crowns and ears. Welfare is about meeting a public sector that is geared to the needs of the citizen, where competent employees, employees with the freedom to act themselves, stand ready to help. I would venture to claim that the efforts of the over 800,000 people working in the public sector in Denmark reflect much more and much more than the wage costs involved in public consumption. So don't put the same thing between spending and welfare, because it is quite simply misleading. In addition, there is no reason to assume that the demographic trait should reflect an ideal situation in which one level of expenditure per year. Citizen is the right thing to do and will be forever and ever. I stress that the compilation of the demographic trait is a purely mechanical calculation based on computational assumptions and projections. The demographic features are primarily used as a technical element in the calculation of the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy and are therefore not aimed at calculations for the precise expenditures of each year. The calculation of the demographic feature does not take into account whether we organise public sector work more effectively, smarter and better organised the public sector, nor do the calculations take into account the fact that new technology can change the way we use the funds in the public sector. I therefore do not share the pessimistic view that social democracy must have as a basis for the resolution, namely that the public sector cannot, in no time at all, be better organized than it is at present. The compilation of demographic features can therefore be used primarily as a guide to what needs to be available if the public sector is not able to adapt more effectively what it needs to be if the pressure of expenditure is to follow exactly the same thing as population development over a longer period of time. However, I do not think it can be used as a substitute for a political assessment of what we should do in each year, how we should prioritise taxpayers' money in order to create an effective public administration that follows time and at the same time provides high-quality service to the Danes. That is why I have to say that I see it as a clear lack of ambition on the part of the Socialists, in other words that they will allow their spending policy to be dictated by a demographic growth rate that does not ensure that we get the most welfare for the money. We should not forget that Denmark of all OECD countries in 2016 had the second highest level of public consumption as a share of GDP only surpassed by Sweden and that the level of spending in 2016 is also high in a historical perspective. We spend almost 530 billion. kr. annual or equivalent to 25%. of GDP on general government consumption. It is the Danes' money and they must be used with care. I believe that it must be the responsibility of every government to make the most of the public service crowns. We believe, for example. • to ensure that public sector tasks can be dealt with more effectively and smarter. This is done by using digital solutions in the public sector. This ensures that citizens experience a higher quality in their daily lives, a higher quality in what they actually receive for the tax dollars they pay. At the same time, resources that can be transferred to other areas are released. And then, of course, we must constantly consider whether we operate and organise the public sector wisely and effectively enough, using new technology where it makes sense, organising the task solution smarter. Of course, we must also constantly take stock of the need to add additional resources to the areas of the public sector that we want to prioritise more. This is done by the annual financial agreements and economic agreements with municipalities and regions. In fact, I want to give priority to the areas that we believe are important to get the most out of tax dollars, but I also want to give priority to looking at whether the places we use today are places where we use them wisely enough. I have noticed here in the recent municipal election campaign that the candidate of the Left for the Copenhagen Citizen's Representation Caroline Stage was very active in mentioning a number of things that she thought were not relevant public consumption. These were things that the City of Copenhagen today spends tax dollars on, which they could have chosen to spend on teaching, on welfare, on security-building measures, for better integration, but instead the City of Copenhagen chose to use them for, and I quote from Caroline Stages' list: relaxing free bicycles by the municipality, a chalk festival, municipal free rental of tools, a municipal seed exchange centre, a count your egg campaign, partnership trees, city bikes for 48,000 DKK. The piece, free communal condoms, yes, there are many things you can use the money for a luminous bench of 1 million. Yes, yes, I know you don't get many elementary schools for a luminous bench of one million, but vice versa just with the small selection of the list that I mentioned here, there are a lot of things where I think that money could be used differently. You could actually use that money smarter. I would like to move on to something else, because I would like to give priority to public welfare. I am not opposed to our having a strong welfare society. In fact, I am a major consumer of the welfare society. I send my children to the municipal public school, I have three boys, so I have cutting cards for the emergency room, my father is at the age of his repair period, and therefore I am glad that we have a good health care that takes care of him. I want us to have a good welfare society in Denmark, but I would like, among other things, to give priority to this by looking at whether we are using the public funds we have, really, today. We are prepared by the government to give priority to money. We do, among other things. by implementing the actions of the Finance Act when we are responsible for the government. We have given priority to health; we have created a cancer plan IV which raises the cancer area by a total of 2.2 billion. kr. towards 2020; we have set aside a dignity billion for elderly people in the 2016 Finance Act; and we have added a total of 2 billion to the elderly. kr. more towards 2020 than this. That is why we are taking a number of initiatives. The government and the Danish People's Party are currently having a constructive discussion on a number of outstanding issues. It is the defence settlement; it is an ambitious tax reform that lowers the tax for people with low incomes; it is the question of a new way of thinking about our foreign policy in relation to those who should only be here quite temporarily; and it is the question of making a Finance Act for 2018. We in the government are concerned about developing our welfare society. There must be room in the economy until 2025, and there must be room for good day care institutions, good schools, security for the Danes and dignified conditions for the elderly. But we do, at the same time, prioritize that the Danes can keep a little more of their hard-earned money, and both are possible.Both are possible.Both are possible.Better welfare and lower tax, but this requires ambition and courage to prioritise on behalf of Denmark, and that is basically what is the difference between the authors of the resolution and the government, namely whether you want to develop Denmark within a secure framework. On this basis, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208114605	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are some who are interested in deepening those views. The first is sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208114619	Thank you, President. The Minister began his speech by saying that expenditure policy is planned on an ongoing basis by a majority of the Folketing. The Minister's point of view is quite clear and why the Social Democrats have tabled this motion for a resolution, since we have found that a majority of the parties in the Folketing want there to be public growth that meets the demographic trend. It is clear, of course, that there is a majority of Parliament's parties expressing it, so we naturally also want to see if it is the case that those parties intend to live up to the views they have. After all, it is not because the current government is actually exerting a very strong influence right now, so it is also very appropriate that we should have the opportunity to discuss this issue when it is that there is still no clarification on either financial law, tax reform or all sorts of other elements. And that leads me to a question, because in order to understand where the government's plans for public consumption really lie, we also need to know some of the ideas that seem to be very clear on the table, if we understand it correctly, about tax reform. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister for Finance can finally reveal the funding of 51⁄4 billion that has been planned in relation to his economic policy as savings, among other things. in the field of transfer. Can we get a little bit smarter about that? How much of this does the Minister of Finance expect to go through, and how much does it want to take from the tax plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208114800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208114804	Well, there was a question at the end. I had no doubt that this was the start of a rapporteur's speech. However, the fact is that we are currently making a number of agreements. Moreover, these are agreements which follow on from the many agreements we have made this autumn. This is a major tripartite agreement, and I am actually pleased that this government has managed to revive the tripartite agreements as a means of supporting employment and continuing training here. We have made a great deal of agreement about car taxation, an agreement that the Social Democrats started with being sceptical about, but subsequently joined and supported around, and last but not least, we have made a very large business and entrepreneurial agreement based on a majority in the Folketing consisting of the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. So there have already been many agreements, and I am also sure that agreements will be in place in the near future. How we then find funding, yes, it is, in fact, an issue that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has asked several times, and I shall give the same answer as in the past, because there could be some who have not heard our previous discussion. I just want to say that it's very similar. We have pointed out that we are going to set a ceiling on child benefit, i.e. the number of so-called child cheques you get per. family, as we think that the big business advantage, that must be a large family, must also be reflected in state support. We would like to introduce more profit principles, because we think it is a good principle that one should provide before one can enjoy being in Denmark and helping to contribute to Danish society before one can fully enjoy the rights that Danish taxpayers have today. And last but not least, we have a desire to introduce user charges on Danish education. We believe that it is reasonable that the people who come here to work or to be brought together in the family and have a desire to learn Danish should also pay more for some of the costs of a Danish course here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208114958	Now it may be wrong that goes wrong, but neither the questioner nor the answer is particularly good. But we're gonna try again. Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115009	Thank you, President. I take advantage of the same timekeeping that the government uses when it says it works quickly with the Finance Act. If it is now the case that we have just an open mind about it, I really think it would have been very appropriate for the Minister to have lifted a little more of the veil on how much of the 51⁄4 billion. kr., one is counting on savings that could be made. I understand that we cannot learn more about that. But can the Minister of Finance reveal when he expects there to be a final financial agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115043	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115047	There will be enough time for us to adopt a financial law before the end of the year. It is the case that we have examined the deadlines for this. If it is possible to reach an agreement so that amendments can be produced which the Committee on Finance can have on Monday, it may be possible, with the goodwill of the Committee on Finance, to hold a vote on this side of Christmas Eve. Otherwise, there are hundreds of thousands of Danes who go to work between Christmas and New Year. If there were to be 179 more who did it one day, then I do not think there would be any working Danes who would feel particularly sorry for us. What is important is that we get a good financial law that meets the challenge of strengthening core welfare; a financial law that meets the challenge of strengthening security and is responsible for the economic situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115130	The next question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115142	We are faced with the fact that there is a majority of the parliamentary parties who actually recognise that there are more elderly people coming, more children coming, and this means that if there is a growth of 0.7%, it means that it is the status quo in relation to the costs of more children and more elderly people. Now I understand from the Minister for Finance that these are just technicalities and that that is not the way to look at it at all, because no, no, it may well be lower than that, because there are infinite amounts of opportunities for efficiency, which I hear as almost the only answer the Minister for Finance has given. I would like to ask whether this means that the Minister of Finance disagrees with the many Left Mayors who have said that if there is no growth of 0.7 per cent, which, I believe, means zero growth compared to the costs they can see coming, then we cannot keep the level of welfare that must be expected in the municipalities for children, young people and the elderly. And the Finance Minister also completely disagrees with police officers, teachers, educators, nurses, all the public welfare workers who know that they are already under pressure from tight budgets, that is, if there is not 0.7 per cent. in growth, then it will mean savings in their field.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115245	Well, I actually think that everyone recognises that there will be more elderly people and more children, as that is a fact. Statistically speaking, it is a fact that there will be more elderly people, and I have not heard anyone deny it. However, Mrs Christine Antorini was, if I remember correctly, Minister throughout the reign of Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and then it is interesting to see whether you lived up to your own words, i.e. whether, while you were in government, you also delivered a growth in public expenditure corresponding to the demographic characteristics. And what are the facts? The fact is that from 2011 to 2015, there was the average annual growth of public consumption in the government of which Mrs Christine Antorini was a part, at 0.1%, and the average demographic move was 0.5%. So we did not live up to the principles we are here advocating, and that is the problem of social democracy. You have a policy when you're in government and someone else when you're in opposition. That is why it is a little difficult to find out what kind of policy we really have to deal with, because social democracy does not live up to the policy they stand here and tell us about in the Chamber once they sit as a government. Compared to the mayors of the Left, we have actually, as a government, delivered more money to them when, with the 2018 economic agreement, we lifted the room for manoeuvre that the municipalities had by 800 million. kr., so that we gave them more money, by the way, unlike when Mr. Bjarne Corydon was finance minister, i.e. when the municipalities got less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115414	I know that the Minister for Finance is well-informed and also that there was an economic crisis that made it a completely different economic situation that was under Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government. Fortunately, we are now in a situation where growth is underway. There is economic room for manoeuvre. That is why the political debate is: what is the scope for economic manoeuvre? What we are seeing now is that the government, with its government partners, wants to promote that room for manoeuvre to be used for tax relief. That is where the political choice is. Does the Minister of Finance recognise that this is where the discussion is, that is, if you just want to have the status quo in relation to the cost to the elderly and children, then this is a discussion that we can take today? There is an economic space, but the government wants something else. It wants tax relief instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115459	Well, if there is an economic crisis, you don't have to live up to demographic growth. Try to reread your own motion for a resolution. There you make it a condition that every year, regardless of crisis or rising times, you have to cover the demographic trait. In other words, it would not be possible to do what Mrs Christine Antorini did as a member of the government. Then you cannot vary it and say that now there is a crisis, so we do it differently. So, either it is unthinkable what you have written in your motion for a resolution, or it is just hypocrisy. I shall leave that to others to judge. In relation to what we want to do, we want to see that in the room for manoeuvre there is room for both good welfare and tax relief. And we take a smaller part of the room for manoeuvre and give it priority to tax relief. This means that there is a large reserve left for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115547	The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115612	Thank you. With public spending planned by the government, we have the prospect of dramatic cuts in welfare. There will simply be less welfare per person. Citizen. It may be fewer nurses, it may be fewer educators, and it may be fewer SOSU assistants to take care of the elderly in nursing homes. But we can't learn where the government wants to cut back. Is it not reasonable that we should be able to get a clear answer here at the eleventh hour, before the Finance Act may not be adopted, on: What are some major welfare groups that the Danes can look forward to or fear that they will get fewer of in the future if the government is given power that it has heeded?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115640	It is so that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is new to the Danish Parliament. That is not something I should like to keep him up to, because we have all been at some point, but I am just saying it to emphasise that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen was not part of the Folketing when Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Mrs Mette Frederiksen were ministers, and when they had a public consumption that grew much less than demography. At that time, we asked the then government: does this mean a dramatic decline in welfare? And the government then said: No, no, because we just reprioritize, we spend the money wiser. You cannot feel that as a single citizen, and then it is that hypocrisy comes back: when others say that they can deliver good welfare on a growth • the way we put up in the Finance Act and then you say: No, they can't. On the question of where we are going to cut back, I say: we do not want to cut back. I don't want to cut back on welfare. I want to add more money to the public schools. I have tabled a financial bill which adds more money to the hospital system, I have tabled a financial bill which reserves more money for the elderly for a dignified old age, and I want to do so, and we can also implement this within the framework of an economy that is growing, also as a percentage of GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115801	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115802	As regards being new to the Folketing, the arguments have at least been raised from the bottom of the shelf. One can well excuse the Minister for Finance for being quite under pressure from some failed negotiations with his support party, a supporting party which, according to today's newspaper, is not very enthusiastic about the Minister for Finance. So we leave it alone. If you cut all this with figures and efficiency, and what else the Minister of Finance sees as fatamorganas, then you can just look at the Minister of Finance's answer that public growth, which the Minister of Finance and the government are proposing, is equal to savings in the public sector. I think the government owes it to the Danes to tell the Danes how they are going to feel those savings, and the microphone is now open, so the finance minister has the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115843	I didn't know that sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen was so vulnerable and sensitive about his seniority in the Folketing. I'm sorry. It is of course the case that, like the then government, it was pointed out that it was possible to create a good growth with a public consumption which only increased by 0.1%. On average a year, as a government, we also believe that it is possible to create good welfare with public spending, which, as the government's basis adds, increases by 0.3 per cent. In fact, it is 0.3 per cent per year, plus what we add to the Danes' safety, to the police, to the defence, to the preparedness budgets. So that is possible for us and I would like to emphasise where it is that we have done more. We have lifted the cancer treatment, we have added more money to health care, we have given more money to the elderly and we have set aside 0.5 billion. kr. over 4 years to raise the quality of the primary schools that have been the worst at giving our children a good start to life. I want to continue to raise quality and raise welfare, and we do so within the framework of a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115945	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208115948	Thank you. With regard to responsible economic policy: the Minister for Finance and I were in a lot of television debates during the last parliamentary elections, where we were just talking about what is the economic policy of the Left, and I remember so clearly how Mr. Kristian Jensen said again and again: there is money for exactly the same number of public employees with the policy of the Left as there are today. I have now sat and looked up our media archive and seen what was said, not only by the Minister of Finance, but also by the current Prime Minister, and now I quote from the answer to a question about what the economic policy of the Left will mean: it will not lead to fewer public employees, you will be able to afford exactly as many employees tomorrow as you had yesterday, the promise was made by the current Prime Minister and then opposition leader, in other words exactly the same number of employees tomorrow as you had yesterday. So what has happened for the first two years of the government's life?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120052	It has happened that there are fewer public employees. But it's not because you've saved. Actually, we've spent more money than we set up. It is because it has been chosen around the municipalities to buy services to a greater extent. It is the case that the level of services purchased in the public sector has increased since the change of government, and this means, for example, that there is a need for a better balance of payments system. are some municipalities that choose to say: we would like to have the food delivery carried out by a private company instead of having the drivers themselves to do so. Does the fact that it is taken out by a private employee rather than by a municipal employee make food worse for the elderly? I don't think so, and I actually don't think so either. Magnus Heunicke, deep down, believes in it. Therefore, the number, that is, how many people are employed or how much you buy as goods services, is not a determining factor in how good the welfare is. After all, this is a strange static way of looking at it and saying that it is precisely whether you are a private or public employee that determines whether you are providing good service. I think, for example. As a result, private practitioners provide as good a service as doctors employed in a regional hospital. They provide a good service. One is a private employee and the other is a public employee. I don't think it's their type of employment, but their service we have to measure them on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120203	In other words, while in the election campaign we heard the Left laws of the Danes that there was money for just as many people in the public sector tomorrow as they had yesterday, we can see that 2 years into the parliamentary term there are 10,000 fewer people in the public sector. And when you talk to mayors from all parties and throughout Denmark, they say that there have been cuts and that there is now less money per person. older. Yes, you can laugh at that as a finance minister, but I don't think they do that in our nursing homes, in our older sector, where we can see that they have to run stronger and that there is less time for more elderly people. That's why we're so worried about this. Since the last time the Left promised something, two years later we can now see that it did not last at all. It was a bluff.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120253	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Magnus Heunicke emphasizes and repeats what we said. We promised that the same number would be available, and so is there. The question is how the municipalities spent the money, and that's why I pulled the smile tape. Because if the mayors complain that there is too little money for welfare, then I am surprised that the same mayors have reduced their welfare framework in order to build some more swimming halls and town halls and other public buildings. After all, they have reduced the framework that we as a government have allocated to them. They have spent less money on services and more money on bricks. I don't want to get involved in that. I have thus allowed them to choose decentralisedly, but I wonder if they come and say that they cannot provide the welfare service that must be provided when they do not use the welfare service framework we have given them, but on the contrary reduce the welfare of a billion dollars in order to build houses and invest in bricks. It is their choice, but then I assume that they themselves are the target of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120351	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120354	I agree with some of the more fundamental considerations which the Minister of Finance began with, but that does not, I think, exempt the Minister of Finance from taking a more fundamental view as to whether it is realistic to imagine that we can have demographic developments in the coming years, with which we will have the Minister's agreement, I can understand that without going into the question of whether we can also keep up with public expenditure. This is because, in addition to demographic developments, we also have a technology development in which there will be the possibility of additional healthcare and services that our citizens expect to receive, and that is why I think it is quite realistic that we should reach 0.7 per cent. in public consumption. It then requires some reforms, and it also requires efficiency in the public sector. I fully agree with the Minister for Finance in the European Union, but should it not be recognised that it is not so simple that we can make things more efficient? That is what the government thinks it can do; we do not think it is; we believe that reforms are needed. If you have a 0.3% growth rate. in the public sector and a demographic development that gives 0.7 per cent, you save at least 0.4 per cent, as far as I can assess. So that is one question: should we not recognise that the demographic challenge must lead to something other than just mechanical projection? The second is that there is, in the entire government's projections, a continuation of the green harvester in education. Isn't there some limit to how many years you can save 2%? Every year on all degree programmes and all research in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120525	We have a system in which we have the opportunity to ask further questions, so perhaps you can wait with question two. Then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120533	Thank you. I'll try to stay within my speaking time. After all, we have said that there must be room for growth in public expenditure. We recognise that there is a pressure on expenditure, that there is a demographic feature, and we believe that this can be dealt with by both increasing public expenditure and streamlining, rationalisation and modernisation. We then believe that it should be elected from year to year, depending on the economic situation. Governments have done so before us. That's the government, sir. Martin Lidegaard was a part of, yes also done. Policy has been adapted to the economic situation. It is true that one of the things we care about is making a re-prioritization contribution, a re-prioritization contribution, which takes a little from ordinary budgets, but invests it again in something new. This is among other things. Therefore, we can invest in a new fugitive. This is among other things. Therefore, we can invest in a quality pool for vocational schools, as agreed in the tripartite negotiations. The 2-percent savings we now have are, after all, the continuation of other productivity savings which can actually be traced back to sometime in the 1980s. And if it were the case that no money was brought back, there would be virtually no budgets on which there was anything. However, we have record public spending because the money has been reinvested, including in the field of education and research.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120653	It is clearly our view and let us just conclude the discussion that is more than optimistic, yes, that it is unrealistic to imagine that we can both keep up with demographic developments and offer the Danes all the new opportunities that technology offers us in terms of a 0.3% public growth proposed by the government. But I will stick to the President's recommendation and go to the question that really concerns me most. Since this government has taken office, it has actually cut by 17 000 posts in education outside the major cities. These savings in education affect with surgical precision the educational institutions, the youth schools, the vocational schools which already find it difficult to get enough pupils and which are typically located in rural areas and outside the large cities. Is there not some time when the government is considering whether the automatic green harvesting method is 2%? every year, when it reaches 10%. or 15 or 20 per cent. In all, it has meant that the number of teachers and teaching lessons has been cut so deep that perhaps we should consider finding another model, for example. reform, to provide budgets for renewal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120810	The then S-led government, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard was part of, operating with a demographic trait of 0.5%. and public consumption growth of 0.1%. That makes a difference of 0.4 per cent. If sir... Martin Lidegaard is right that the demographic move is 0.7 per cent. and the government is setting a growth rate of 0.3 per cent, so that's a difference of 0.4 per cent. I find it difficult to see the big difference between what was delivered by the government, Mr. Martin Lidegaard was a part of, and what I am setting up to deliver. In relation to education, we are looking at when it is time to change direction. We did, for example. in the hospital area, where there are a number of years of productivity requirements of 2%, but this year we have made an agreement to abolish the productivity requirement from 2019 onwards, i.e. keep it calm in 2018 and abolish it forward-looking and put in another management system. So when relevant, when necessary, we are open to change the steering tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120907	The next question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208120911	Thank you. So, before I ask my question, I would just like to ask the Minister of Finance quite calmly if we cannot get away from the discussion that compares a period with the most severe crisis since World War II throughout the world, where Denmark was particularly hard hit, with the present, when the economy is roaring out there. It's just a call. As long as the economy as a whole grows by more than the public sector grows by, the public sector, as a share of the economy, becomes smaller. You can have an ideological view of this, which means that you think it is a good thing. And I think a lot of liberal bourgeois people do too. But you can also choose to look at it in the way that the reason why we want to get richer is that we want more money to take care of our sick, our elderly and our children, i.e. to improve our common welfare. That's how you can choose to see it. The Minister for Finance is quite right in saying that there are many places where we can still make things more efficient and better for our citizens too. I think the area of employment is an obvious place. But then there are a lot of other places where it just doesn't seem very obvious. That is why I would ask the Minister of Finance to be a little more specific and to tell us where he thinks better services can be cut. Because I do not see that it is in the hospitals where midwives and doctors are currently resigning in protest. I do not see that it is in today's institutions or in the elderly where the SOSUs must run stronger and stronger. I can't see it's the police. So where is it? Can the Minister be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121050	Just for the sake of history books, I would like to say that the economic crisis in Denmark was the hardest from 2008 to 2011. At that time, we increased public spending. When we sat in government during that period, we increased public spending to keep our hands on growth. From 2011 to 2015, at least several times I heard the then government say that now the conditions for growth had been created, and now we were on our way out of the crisis again. And during that period, therefore, there was a significantly low level of public consumption. I'm just saying, and it's not accusing to the then government that it's wise to have the freedom to adapt economic policy to what it actually looks like in the economy of Denmark. And so it is not wise to set a rule over annual ratings, in relation to what we are doing here. I have also noticed that there are some places where doctors quit. I have noticed that this is mainly happening in the Capital Region, which has no control over how they make proper hospital development, whereas other regions, for example. Region of Central Jutland, does not have the same problem, and certainly not the Region of Southern Denmark. I really want to add more money. I do not want to cut, I want to add more money to the elderly, to health, to primary school, to education. We are lifting the research budget this year with even more millions of kroner so that we can do more research. I think we should continue to do so, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121208	Thank you. Well, we're not gonna have a real discussion if we're gonna keep stomping around in the other one. I think we should focus on what we are saying: can we really get better service by having such a low level in relation to the demographic move? In an answer given by Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, but who is only 1 year old, was defined the demographic trait and we all agree on this as a social development, assuming that the amount per. We all have to be healthier and live longer, which requires an average growth of 0.6%. In the economic models, you put in all sorts of other things and you say, this is the premise; that's what we can figure out when we make these 10-year plans or whatever. And there we just still haven't got an answer from the Minister of Finance on why they 0.6%. In this case, the Ministry of Finance's reply does not apply here. Why isn't this the case here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121321	Just for the record, I would like to say that I still think it is appropriate to look at the past in order to learn from the future. In relation to why it is relevant to look at whether you can do things more effectively, it is because it has actually proven that it is possible to do things more effectively. Now I had that list from the City of Copenhagen that showed what could be saved on public expenditure there. But let us just take something more general, namely health care. Health care has succeeded in reducing costs per year through technological development and new methods. patient, while raising the quality of the individual citizen. This has been done in a cancer operation, which in the past cost about DKr 120,000. per Surgery, which now costs DKK 70,000, and where the citizen is shorter time in hospital. I don't think we're done with this development. I believe that we must support this development and promote it, and that is why, in reply to Mr. Martin Lidegaard said that we are ready to look at a new governance model that continues to promote innovation, improvements and efficiency in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121419	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121423	After all, we have seen that over a number of years a lot of home help hours have been cut out in the municipalities. We have seen how home help is today for many thousands of elderly people, compared to what they received about 10 years ago. Some of this is, of course, due to the rehabilitating efforts that are being made in the municipalities, and something is due to healthy ageing. But when I hear the Minister for Finance, it is as if the Minister of Finance completely ignores or rejects the fact that there should also be definite cuts and reductions in the much smaller number of home help hours that, for example, are needed. is around the municipalities. Is this a complete rejection by the Finance Minister of the fact that there are also definite cuts and deteriorations here? Is that how we're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121506	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121511	I cannot give a full and comprehensive guarantee for all 98 municipalities. I think there is a very different picture from municipality to municipality of how it has gone. Therefore, one of my tasks as Minister of Finance has also been to look at how we can support the municipalities that have had the most difficulty in using their service framework and which have had problems with perhaps theoretically having the opportunity, but not liquidity-related capacity to provide a good service to their citizens. That is why we are looking at making an adjustment to the compensation reform to support the municipalities that have the most difficulty. 'Cause there's a difference between the municipalities there's I'm glad about it, by the way, as Mr. Rune Lund started by saying that we recognise the enormous effort that has been made in rehabilitation in many municipalities, where it has been done so that the individual elderly have been able to cope with fewer home help hours. This must not change the fact that if you are unable to manage, the municipality must be able to stand there with a good offer. This is among other things. That is why we made it our priority that there should be 800 million. kr. more than planned for the municipalities in 2018, so that they could better afford to provide a good service, also in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121620	However, the discussion is relevant when we talk about how much public consumption should increase. For 0.3 per cent. is very little when we see, for example. as FOA has calculated that since 2008 almost 6 million hours of home help have been cut away in the municipalities and that 30,000 fewer elderly people are receiving home help today. As far as I am concerned, it is indisputable that this also covers downsizing and deterioration, and when the government then comes up with a proposal for growth in the public sector, which should only be 0.3 per cent, which does not even cover the demographic trend of 0.7 per cent, then I do not think there is any recognition that there has been some deterioration and that there are some cuts that we need to correct, so that we maintain, at least in the future, the minimum level of service currently available.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121711	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121713	First of all, we always get better at looking at whether we are spending the money of the public sector properly. A very specific example: we have been looking at DSB, which has actually made quite a good profit for some years now, and which runs in a way that makes it possible to downgrade the payment to DSB in the coming years and, in return, to reclassify the money to something else, among other things. to the reserve of 0.5 billion. kr. to health and the elderly, which the government introduced into the Finance Act, where we ensure that there are some things here that can help to pay something else. We then used this in the specific situation, that is to say the savings on DSB, to support our companies, but they could have gone to something else. And we keep looking at: What can we do to spend our money smarter? Then I would also like to arrest, even though there have been 30,000 more elderly people, that the goal is that they are infirm. I hope we agree that it must not be an objective for the elderly to be infirm. If it is the case that the elderly are not weak, if they live healthier, live longer, live better, then the fact that there are more elderly people in Denmark should not be reflected in the fact that they should have the same service as if they were inferior, i.e. weak.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121823	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121824	I have to say that there are many good reasons why we should soon have a financial law. And one of them is that I actually think the Minister for Finance needs a good long vacation. Now I have heard that the Minister for Finance has reduced a colleague for lack of seniority. Another colleague who asked a quite relevant question was so scornfully laughed at a bit. In other words, even the Prime Minister is on his most irritable days a study in self-control compared to what the Minister of Finance is showing today. Now that the Minister of Finance is very concerned about the fact that what the Social Democrats say before the elections is also the same as after the elections, the Minister for Finance could not answer how it might be that Mr. Lars Løkke in 2013, when a Finance Act was passed at the end of November, said it was far too late that it could not be implemented without lawlessness and that things were sailing? That's what he said when he was in opposition. Now that you're in government, it's okay to go deep into December. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121924	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208121925	I'm quite sure that sir... Dan Jørgensen is a fine censor in self-control, and I really don't want to interfere with that anymore. I don't think I need Christmas vacation. I feel like I'm doing a good job and I've got a lot of work to do in front of me. It is the case that I regret, more than anyone else, that we have not finished the financial regulations. There has been a very, very ambitious reform programme. It consists of, among other things: a tripartite agreement and, as I mentioned earlier, I am very pleased that this government has managed to revive the tripartite agreements as a tool in Danish politics. We have made a car tax which I really like and which gives the Danes cheaper cars. We have made the whole business and entrepreneurial package, where we will also have more of the small businesses supported better. And then we are left with a tax reform in which the government wants to reduce the tax for ordinary Danes who go to work and have normal wages and make sure that they get something more out of being in employment. And last but not least, we need to get a financial bill in place. I would have liked that financial law to have been in place earlier. Should it fall into place so that we get to work between Christmas and New Year here in the Danish Parliament, I really think that most Danes have full respect for the fact that we can also work between Christmas and New Year, just as hundreds of thousands of other Danes can.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122035	I think there are many of us who intend to work between Christmas and New Year in any case. The question is whether you have to go into the Chamber to rush something through or not. I did not really expect the Minister of Finance to answer my question, nor did he. But perhaps he could answer this simple question: why is it that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said in 2013 that it can only become lawless and that it cannot be achieved when a financial agreement is adopted at the end of November? But now that you might get to you in mid-December, it's all of a sudden not sloppy. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122111	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122112	I have asked in Parliament's administration the secretariat of the Finance Committee at what time we have to submit the amendments in order to be able to have a good and easy reading of the amendments until the third reading. And there I have been told that if we can table the amendments in such a way that the Financial Committee can have them on Monday, then it will be possible to hold a vote before Christmas. And if we deliver them later than Monday, there will be a vote between Christmas and New Year. And I assume that the answers I get from the Danish Parliament's administration about how much time it takes to do a good and sober treatment are comprehensive for the Danish Parliament's assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122152	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122156	Thank you. The Minister for Finance has said a few times that it is wise to adapt economic policy to the situation in which we find ourselves. And there it is precisely that we have to ask: what is the situation we are facing? We are in a situation where there will be more older people than the Minister of Finance will pay for. I mean, you gotta do less out there. And then we have the Social Democrat who asks: should we not turn things upside down and say that we take welfare first before we start discussing tax cuts? So can the Minister of Finance, without all sorts of talmagic, tell the Danes honestly and honestly that he thinks that what is most needed is tax relief because he thinks there is plenty of care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122242	We are proposing in the Finance Act to step up our efforts towards the elderly. We're setting up to spend more money on the elderly. We are proposing to ensure that there is more freedom of choice for the elderly. We are setting out to ensure that there is more money for health. And yes, then we also propose to reduce tax revenue in the future a little bit. However, in relation to the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy based on some of the reforms that were primarily made by the VK government or by the government since the change of government, there is room for lowering the tax. There is money to combat the interplay problem, which is that a great many employees feel that when they save up for their pension, they actually get less out of it than if they had just put the money into a regular bank account. This is a problem because we need a system that supports pension savings. And we also need a system that supports more labour supply. Therefore, what we want to reduce the tax on work is to motivate more people to move professionally and geographically after the work there is. When we listen to the wise men and when we listen to economists from banks and the National Bank and other things, we can hear that they say that there is a challenge with us running out of labour quite quickly if we do not increase the workforce. One of the things you do is that you do it. by lowering the tax at work, and that is why we are setting up to spend a small part of the room for manoeuvre on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122358	Well, that was actually a clear answer. The Minister of Finance thinks it's more important, and then it's okay that the elderly have to make it by less per cent. older. That is a fair political priority. We just disagree with it. Now the Minister for Finance has a chance because you have to tell the truth here in Parliament and something like that to correct what has been said sometimes, namely that we did not finance the demographic move when we last sat in government. I would just like to say that the Finance Minister is counting on 2011 because otherwise the figures cannot go up against his own answers. And it wasn't a finance bill that we were responsible for. So it is just to allow the Minister of Finance here to correct his own mistake, so that we do not have to keep the Minister of Finance up to the point that he has spoken untruely in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122447	I am absolutely true and have made a complete statement from the outset about what the premise is. It is the case that the then government, with additional appropriations, with amended financial measures or other measures, could have increased public spending if it wanted to. You could do that. You could have done that if you wanted to. You didn't want that. Therefore, we have a public consumption that has developed from 2011 onwards to 2015, with an average annual growth of 0.1%. I've said that all the way through. The fact is that from the start we have prioritised more money for health, we have prioritised more money for the elderly, and we will also prioritise more money for the elderly in the Finance Act that comes here. And no matter how many false claims the Social Democratic Party makes, it doesn't change the fact that you can actually break it up when you see the Finance Act. You can see that more money is given to the elderly, to health and to safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122542	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122545	Thank you. Now perhaps the Prime Minister is sitting somewhere else negotiating a Finance Act which is usually over in the Ministry of Finance. Now we have just had municipal elections here on 21 November, and it went well for the Social Democratic Party, and it is very good to get some early Christmas presents and it went less well for the Left. I'm sure you've looked at what it could be like. I'm just thinking about this tax relief requirement: where does it really come from? I may have missed it, but I usually follow politics well. Is that a demand from the newly elected mayors who, after all, have been given to the Left, or perhaps especially from those who were not re-elected? How important do members of the Left think it is to listen to the debate that there are tax reliefs? I hear that they are talking about more welfare. They want more money for the municipalities. That is contrary to what we are debating. Where does the tax relief requirement actually come from? Is it coming from the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122648	I think the questioner should talk to his party colleague from Køge, Marie Stærke, about it. After all, she felt that the issue of welfare was so important that it was part of what she became mayor on the basis of and what she formed her majority on the basis of. And then she thought it was important to write into the agreement to become mayor that she promised to put the treasure down. Perhaps you should talk to the 14 • as far as I remember social democratic mayors who, during the last municipal elections, have lowered the tax, about why they did so. I think I know the answer. This is because lower taxes help to increase labour supply and help to make sure that more people want to work it can be instead of being on the edge of the labour market or in the form of working more while they are in the labour market. It was the clear philosophy behind it when Helle Thorning-Schmidt led a government that put the tax down to work. It was to increase the supply of work. And the clear philosophy behind our desire to give priority to a smaller part of the remaining room for manoeuvre is to ensure that we can reduce the tax so that we increase the supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122756	Perhaps we should increase support for hearing aids, because that is not what I asked. I asked where that demand came from: whether it came from the re-elected mayors of the Left and perhaps those who were not re-elected, generally from the Left, who in a good way take part in the popular rule out in the municipalities. Is it a big public demand that tax cuts should be made in order to save public spending? Then it may well be that there is a difference between some municipalities and that some have a better economy than others; we know very well that this is the case. But we are talking about general requirements. I do not hear that there are any Leftmen talking about someone being sent home or that the tax should be reduced. You want proper welfare so you can secure schools and everything else. And with regard to the issue of labour supply: if it is the case that people who are unemployed have the right skills, then they will also be employed out there. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122851	Then I got it a little bit better, for sir. Bjarne Laustsen has misunderstood the whole premise for the discussion. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen thought I'd cut back on public expenditure. In fact, I have a government base that says I have to increase I have a Finance Act that is going to increase I have a Finance Act that is up to spending more money on continuing education, more money on the elderly, more money on health, more money on primary schools and fucking what was in the old Finance Bill for this year. Actually, I'm gonna put up with us spending more money. We are doing this in a number of areas. We are making it targeted the things that are priority for us. Our priority is to be able to give our elderly a good and dignified old age; it is to be able to secure security. We must have sufficient officers to be able to carry out the tasks of creating security, security and enforcement that we need in Denmark. We need good hospitals and a good health service that is close and coherent and where there is a connection between what happens in the hospitals in the region and what happens in the municipality when you get home. In fact, I am giving priority to this, and that is why I am in favour of the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208122957	Thank you. And the last one in my line here is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123003	Thank you. I do not quite know whether I think this is a good debate, or it is a bad debate, because I think we should discuss what the resolution is all about, namely whether we should increase it by 0.7% or not. In the beginning of his speech, I think, like the Minister for Finance, that public welfare is of course important. After all, the whole political discussion here is: how large should the public sector be? From my point of view, the public sector is helping to support the private sector. After all, it is absolutely essential that we have a strong and good public sector. That is where I think things are going the wrong way at the moment. In fact, I would also like to follow up on the question of the re-priority contribution by the Radicals, that is, the fact that the salami method is constantly being used. After all, it does not really allow the municipalities and the institutions to decide for themselves how to give priority to their future use of the funds they receive in the way that they constantly cut it. I think, of course, that we are hearing very clearly at the moment the municipalities say that there are problems in making the economy stick together. I fully agree that there must of course be efficiency improvements, that we must of course use digitalisation, but there is still a marked need for more money in the municipalities, institutions and regions. I would really like to see the Minister of Finance perhaps enter into the real political discussion here instead of just saying what it was like in the past. Well, it's the government's role to decide what we want Denmark to look like in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123142	It is also my intention to do so. And once I have answered, the answer has been dependent on the question that has been asked. In relation to the municipalities and the re-prioritisation contribution, I can say that we have abolished the municipal re-prioritisation contribution. We have abolished the municipal authority because in this way we have created a room for manoeuvre to give priority to some areas; we have created a room for manoeuvre to choose where it is that we must place particular emphasis on something. After all, it is not the case that the re-priority contribution is a saving contribution that goes down and increases our bottom line. A re-prioritization contribution will be transferred to other priority parts. That is what has done that we have actually been able to afford to give priority to the elderly. That is what makes it possible for us to afford to give priority to research. That is what makes it possible for us to afford to bring more officers to the police at a time when our police force has been very squeezed. I am not saying that you must have the same steering mechanism forever. That was also the answer to Martin Lidegaard. At some point, you have to consider whether it is the right one. However, I believe that it is also possible to hold on to an efficiency discussion in the future, which is based on a 2% re-prioritisation contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123256	Yes, of course, it is technically true what the Minister of Finance says about the re-priority contribution, but that still means that we are going in and controlling centrally how the money is to be spent. There is the fact that I am much more in favour of the fact that we are really putting the money into the municipalities. I therefore believe that a greater amount of money is needed in order to allow municipalities and regions to take account of demography. But I have a brief second question: can there not be too high a price in relation to the current financial law negotiations? After all, I find it very, very worrying about the way in which refugees and family reunification rules are being put at risk, and here and now such an already heavily burdened group is paying the price in the context of the financial law negotiations. Is it with the Minister's agreement that it goes that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123344	I think the last question was a little off the agenda in general. But let me just stress that I believe that we should treat refugees who have come to Denmark and family members who are in Denmark well and properly. I think it's best if they're self-supporting. I think it is good that they are able to earn their own money instead of having to receive money from the public. However, I also feel that it is important to emphasise to people who are up here for temporary protection that this is an immigration policy, in relation to whom we will allow immigrants in Denmark, and we have a refugee policy in relation to who needs protection. The two things should not merge; they are two different directions. I am confident that we will have a good financial law agreement and a good agreement also on tax reform and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123432	There is a great deal of interest in asking the Minister for Finance, and that is perfectly understandable. We are now out of time for major debates to stand on the platform. I have one left on the list, and I am sure the Minister for Finance is accommodating, so Mr. Mattias Tesfaye gets the floor anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123449	Thank you. I understand that there has been such a debate about whether the public sector is able to cover the extra tasks that are when there are more elderly people and there has been a discussion about the demographic trait and how it should now be understood and interpreted and something like that, but the short of the long term is that we need a public sector which is capable of delivering at least the same level of service as it has done in the past. We cannot do that with the policy that the government has put forward and the financial law that has been put forward. I feel it quite specifically in vocational schools, where I can see that the reduction that runs year after year means fewer teachers for education, and that means reduced education. Then we can stand here and have some technical discussion whether it can be made more effective in some way, but the short of the long term is that there are only fewer and fewer teachers per year. student, and that quality gets harder and harder to maintain. Can the Minister of Finance not confirm that this is a reasonably low-practical and logical consequence of the economic policy pursued by the government, with such low growth in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123554	If we tackle vocational schools specifically, it is the case that for the current year vocational schools have received more funding in quality pool than they were reduced in re-prioritisation contributions. Then it is true that there are some decreases due to taximeters, i.e. that you get a payment per. student. If there are fewer pupils then you get less money, but then I also assume that if there are fewer pupils, it will almost upset that there is a need for fewer teachers to be there. Of course, if in a class there was marginally a single student or less, one cannot say that then there must be a certain proportion of the teacher's time that goes away. But overall it should be the case that the taximeters depend on how many students there are and the taximeters cover the variable costs that are in the area. In fact, we have added more in the quality pool than what was included in the re-priority contribution specifically at the vocational schools, and we are proposing to do the same for 2018 with a tripartite agreement we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123659	I am pleased with what the Minister intends to do, namely that there should not be a reduction in costs per year. student. I just have to say that in the first Finance Act the government made, there was a re-priority contribution of 2%. So we canceled that by 150 million. kr. In 2017, 2% were then added. further on, so it was so 4%, and we still compensated for that only by 150 million. kr. Now a tripartite agreement has been drawn up, which we will also make up again for the 150 million. kr., so the 2-percent savings in vocational schools continue year after year. It's practically just a year backwards or a year behind than it is in high school. So if the Minister intends not to cut back on vocational schools, then we have to go back to the level that was in 2015, of course, regulated from the figures in 2015. So that would mean that we would have to get up and find 460 million. kr. This year, and then I just want to know if the government was prepared to stop the cuts in vocational schools and ensure that in practice the re-prioritisation contribution will have no impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123802	We have a common challenge specifically for vocational schools. We have made a joint new vocational school reform which is in the process of coming into force and being rolled out now in those years and being fully implemented. The first apprentices to start the new training are not finished yet. That is why there is a common interest in the Social Democratic Party and the government in following through the vocational school reform. I think we should look at what challenges there are in vocational schools. I think it is worth examining what is doing that, despite the reform, we have not been able to get more young people to choose it. What is it that does about economics and other things that we do not persuade enough young people to choose vocational schools, do not persuade enough parents to recommend their young people to go through that way? I think so, and I would actually like to prioritize some time on that during 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123852	So we would like to thank the Minister for Finance. Then, of course, we have a round for the benefit of rapporteurs who might be able to say more on this exciting subject. We've got the whole line. The first is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208123911	In the Danish People's Party we would like to start this discussion of B 28 by thanking the proposers. Thank you to the Social Democratic proposers for raising this very, very important debate and focusing on an extremely important issue. Because this is not only an important matter for the Social Democrats as the authors of the motion for a resolution; it is indeed something that we in the Danish People's Party are working very hard to ensure - precisely that there is security of welfare, as the title of the resolution says, which we are dealing with here. In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about welfare. We're preoccupied with, among other things. a high level of health care. We are constantly helping to do everything we can to ensure that, among other things, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are in a position to do what we can. better cancer treatment, and we are also very pleased that we have now succeeded in abolishing this productivity requirement, which has been applied to our health care. Because it is incredibly important that we as Danes, when it is that we get sick or get hurt, are met by some health workers who have both the skills, but also the time to make a huge effort to get us back to health. We are also concerned with the elderly, the care of the elderly, and we know at the moment that there is a huge need for more hands in the care of the elderly. Last week, figures came from KL that three out of four municipalities lack hands in the care of the elderly and that they simply find it difficult to recruit hands for the care of the elderly. So this is a very, very big and important problem, which we have also addressed both in a question debate, but also in consultation with the relevant ministers. When I think of welfare, I also think of such things as police, because it is also important that we can feel safe when we walk around the streets and alleys and when we are in our own home. It is also important in the eyes of the Danish People's Party that we make an effort simply to get some more policemen trained. It is important for the security that we experience. We know that we have problems with gang crime, burglar crime and bicker crime, etc., and there is a lot to do. We in the Danish People's Party have the very same desire as the proposers to prioritise welfare and ensure security of welfare. That is why we are very, very much in favour of the motion for a resolution that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124209	One question just came from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124214	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the willingness shown by the Danish People's Party to the proposal. We have not yet taken a decision on whether to put this proposal to the vote or perhaps to consider making a report on it. We must, of course, discuss this further during the committee procedure, but the fact that the Danish People's Party is making such a positive statement here is very good, as it shows so clearly that the majority outside the current government, which wants to strengthen welfare, is present. So thank you for that. I have just one question which I think may be pressing for all of us, because a number of negotiations are currently under way, and I also understand that the rapporteur is here today because many of the rapporteur's party colleagues have been admitted elsewhere. However, is it correct to understand that the Danish People's Party maintains the view that the financial law with which it is currently working must be dealt with separately and not together with, for example, a proposal for a tax plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124328	We think it is quite important that we get the country a financial law as soon as possible. That is why we have put forward a proposal, and we have also told it in the media via my party chairman, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that we would like to see the negotiations separated so that we could work calmly with the government's concerns, i.e. a tax agreement, and what concerns us in the Danish People's Party, namely ensuring more repatriations, at another time. Then you could land that Finance Act now and here, because, as I hear from the big table, where my financiers are sitting, it is that a Finance Act could actually be agreed within a few hours if the government were also willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124420	That, of course, leads me to the question which of course also needs to be addressed: if, as the rapporteur says, such a financial agreement lands within a few hours, will it be a financial agreement that will be able to meet what we want in the resolution, that is to say that we are living up to the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124448	We in the Danish People's Party have a very clear desire to provide more funds for welfare. I'm not sitting at the big table and I'm dived into all the papers, so a very clear answer to Mr. I cannot give Benny Engelbrecht's question, but we have the very same intentions as the Social Democracy. That is also why we say that we think it is a very good proposal that has been put forward by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124515	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124518	I do not think there is any reason not to put this proposal to the vote. Benny Engelbrecht, for the proposal, is about more than the financial bill that is running right now. After all, it is a question of ensuring that every year, towards 2025, public consumption follows at least the demographic pressure, corresponding to real growth in the public sector of 0.7%. In other words, if DF votes in favour of this proposal, we have, of course, put a bottom under welfare for the next many years, which will at least correspond to demographic pressure, and that will be a really great achievement. Because we've had this discussion for many years. We also had it in the Enhedslisten in relation to the Social Democratic led government when it was Thorning who was Prime Minister, where we had a problem with the absence of a political majority which would support a demand that the cost of welfare should at least follow developments in the number of elderly and demographic pressures. So if we can get this adopted now, it will have a meaning not only in 2018 but for many years to come in terms of ensuring proper welfare in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124635	Mr. Rune Lund is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124646	When all these financial law negotiations may at some point have been completed right over here in the Ministry of Finance, could it be imagined that the Danish People's Party will decide on this, not on the basis of a debate that is going on right here today, Friday, but by starting from how our welfare should be organized towards 2025? Because if we can get a statement from the Danish People's Party from the platform today that it is a position you have, then such a proposal can easily be adopted here, regardless of what negotiations may take place today. For then there is a majority: DF, S, Enhedslisten. There alone there is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124727	We are very happy to participate in negotiations and talk and dialogue on how to ensure future welfare. Because this is incredibly crucial both in terms of health care, in relation to our primary schools, the police, etc. So we are very happy to participate in that. But as Mr. Rune Lund has probably also known that we are currently engaged in some financial legislation negotiations which have not yet been completed. We hope to be able to reach an agreement soon, which will also ensure more welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124758	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124803	With full understanding that you are in the middle of some difficult financial law negotiations right now, we are here at the core of what we are several parties who believe, and as the Danish People's Party also says, that if we are to ensure a level of welfare that is just at the level of what we have now and when I say 'just', it is because I really believe that both the rapporteur and I agree that there are some places where we could do better, both in relation to the elderly, in relation to the health service and in relation to the day institutions, it is not just some kind of technical figure. Well, this is simply about setting a level for it and saying that this is what we want at least in our welfare societies. That is why we are asking the rapporteur whether the principle of the Danish People's Party can live with the creation of a financial law and perhaps also future financial laws that set the level lower than what we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208124912	When we go to financial law negotiations, we do so with some of the things that really concern us in the Danish People's Party. This is among other things. More to health and welfare, that is, to the elderly, and the police, not to forget, which is also an important part. After all, we do not enter into negotiations with a desire for less money to be spent on welfare. We are going to negotiations with the wish that, especially in these economically favourable times, as we are at present, we will receive far more money for welfare than there is today, and that is our clear starting point. We also have the expectation, when we go to negotiations, that the government will be sensitive to what we have to say and the things that are important to us. And we are negotiating a solution that will allow us to get more welfare for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125014	Of course. After all, you always want to let your mandates work in the best possible way. But once again we have to say that we often hear that one of the main reasons for the Danish People's Party to exist is to be a welfare party, and so we just have to ask whether one can live by being far below the level that just has to ensure the status quo, that is to say the level of welfare that people know out there, or whether one would say: we're going to have a majority of the parties in the Parliamentary Assembly • would actually like to shake hands that this must be bottomed. There must be the level of welfare we know now, and then we can always discuss whether more needs to be done. That is, of course, a way of saying that our mandates and, above all, DF's mandates are being put to work, that is, by handshaking it. That is what the Folketing is for: it is to try to find a majority on the policy on which one can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125116	I am also very pleased to be able to be a member of a party which actually prioritises welfare, and I am also pleased to note that in recent years there has been an increase in public spending. There has been growth in relation to what we invest in welfare, and it is also very, very important for me and for the Danish People's Party. After all, we are doing everything we can when we go to negotiations to ensure that the policy that we have put forward must also continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125149	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125200	Thank you. The Socialist motion for a resolution obliges the government to ensure that every year, towards 2025, public consumption follows at least the demographic trend corresponding to a real growth in public consumption of 0.7%. a year. There is probably no doubt that this is what the proposal is about in relation to the debate that has already taken place. But for the record, let me say what the position of the Left is. We in the Left want to strengthen core welfare, and we have done so since we joined the government in 2015, because we have actually made quite a lot of effort to strengthen the core areas of the public sector, and we have also increased the agreed service framework with the municipalities, and with the financial agreement concluded this year, which will apply next year, there is a service framework of 800 million. kr. greater, which the municipalities can give priority to the areas that the municipalities want. An older billion has been set aside, which has ensured an increase in the quality of day-to-day services, and a large number of initiatives have been taken, because we in the Left want a modern, well-functioning and efficient public sector. People need to know that when you need help from the public sector, high-standard and high-quality services are provided and that you should not be afraid if you run into disease, not to be able to get proper treatment in our hospitals, and citizens should know that you can get to it quickly. That is one of the reasons why we also reinstated the 30-day extended treatment guarantee, which the Socialist Government had weakened, because we in the Left want citizens to be treated quickly and effectively and not on a waiting list. It is money that we have prioritised, because we want a high quality of public service. It may well be that today's socialist history is regarded as something that goes from 1871, I think it is, and then to 2011 and then from 2015 onwards. At least that is the impression you get when you listen to the debate. For what were the consequences in the four years when there was a social democratic government? Yes, there was a decrease in the agreed service costs for the municipalities, but in return more was given in development aid and higher cash aid to foreigners, and we in the Left felt that this was a poor priority, which meant that there was a total of less money for core welfare than there could otherwise have been. As I said, we in the Left are giving priority to nuclear welfare. The health sector has been lifted by just under 4 billion. kr. Since the last parliamentary elections, which have been set aside for cancer plan IV, action plan for elderly medical patients, and we have also abolished the so-called productivity requirement in hospitals, and for the sake of history writing, I believe that it was actually introduced under the Social Democratic Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and, incidentally, also applied in the four years when we had a social democratic government, namely from 2011 to 2015. It is no surprise that we in the Left cannot support the Social Democrat proposal. We are already working, as I have said, to ensure a solid public sector where there is money for welfare, we are setting out to prioritise more money for a welfare reserve to be targeted at the health and elderly area, with the financial law currently being negotiated, and, as I have said, additional money has been allocated to municipalities and regions, so that there is a basis for raising welfare costs. But to make it as schematic as the Social Democratic Party has proposed, we think it is a bad idea. So it is not a desk exercise with decimals in public growth that is crucial, but it is the service that citizens receive. It is, of course, as the debate has shown that more funds for public spending do not necessarily mean better welfare, because we cannot equate the two things, and it is therefore essential that we are concerned about what kind of service citizens receive when they spend the public sector more than how much money we spend on it. This leads to higher public spending if a public institution is poorly managed and has high sick leave and temporary work hours are to be purchased. This leads to higher public spending, but does it provide a better public service that the elderly in a nursing home should not be met by the daily staff, but should be handled by temporary workers? No, it doesn't, but it gives higher public spending, and it may not be the smartest way to calculate it. It may also not be very clever to calculate it by looking only at these decimals and figures, if, for example, by means of new technology you can solve a welfare task with one employee instead of two, where, for example, through a lifting unit you can be an employee to take an older citizen to the bath instead of being two. This actually results in lower public spending, but it could actually mean that the employee had a better working environment, and it could mean that the elderly had a greater dignity by having only one employee to help him in the bath. Therefore, and for many other reasons, which time does not allow me to go into, I can say that we in the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125722	Thank you. There's one question. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125725	Thank you, President. After all, the Minister for Finance began his speech by stating that it is the case that expenditure policy is planned on an ongoing basis by a majority of the Folketing. I assume that the rapporteur agrees with the view that it confirms the rapporteur with a nod. Then I will just hear how the Left views the situation that the Danish People's Party has indicated in this Chamber that they think this proposal is sympathetic. Now we have not heard all the rapporteurs yet, but there is probably a relative probability that there will be a majority of parties in the Folketing who actually think this is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125818	I believe that what the Danish People's Party has said today has actually been saying for a number of years, and we have good experience of being able to land good, solid political agreements, financial agreements with the Danish People's Party, and of course I expect that to happen quite soon. But, of course, I get a little confused in this discussion. Could it be that the Socialist Financial Rapporteur could inform me what the growth is in the financial law of the Social Democrat Party? What is public consumption growth there? It would be rewarding if we could get that information today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125855	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125857	Yes, it is at least 0.7 per cent, as the rapporteur already knows. I also think it is worth remembering that, when we were in government, the Social Democrats were working on average to meet the demographic trend, even a little on the good side, contrary to what the Minister of Finance has said in the past. I must admit that I do not recognise what the rapporteur of the Left says. In the past, the Danish People's Party has actually rejected this specific proposal. That is certainly not what I hear the Danish People's Party is doing in the Parliamentary Chamber today, and I note that, and I must note it with great satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208125941	It's a little strange that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht can say that there is a growth of 0.7 per cent. in public spending in the context of social democracy. It's clearly clear of numbers. So it's gonna be exciting to see how you can see it. Of course, I'm also excited to see it, as sir. Mattias Tesfaye said that, in the view of the Social Democratic Party, for matters to be linked in vocational schools, a minimum of 450 million would have to be added. kr. to the vocational school area. This is not a figure I can recognise from the financial law of the Social Democrat Party, but we will, of course, have ample opportunity to discuss it. I firmly believe that a majority is required to make a financial law. We have done this with the Danish People's Party for the last 2 years. We are debating this at the moment, and the economic policy for 2018 will then be organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208130030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208130043	Thank you for the floor. With this resolution, the Social Democratic Party, as described in the comments, wants to change the basic process so that every year, towards 2025, a growth in public consumption is included in line with demographic pressure. By 2025 this will mean that public consumption will be increased by 25 billion. kr., and it is then in 2017 prices, compared to the level this year. And then it is written in the notes: "This will reflect the level of expenditure required to maintain the current level of welfare." I should like to begin by saying that we are very much in favour of such a proposal from the Socialist Group. It is no secret that we have had our discussions over the years, including with the Social Democratic Party, and also when the Social Democracy was in government and it was Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt who was Prime Minister. For many years we have said that we must at least have a development in our welfare, which means that there will be no deterioration in welfare, for example. more elderly people, that is to say, we must have at least a development of expenditure which follows the demographic level. Over the years we have had a great deal of difficulty in getting the Social Democratic Party to participate in this, but now we have such a proposal here today, and I really consider this to be very pleasing and something that is very little corydonsk, if I may go as far as to say so. I regard it as a political victory and I think it is a very good step that has been taken here. When you get something, you always want something more. And if we just have to, what to say, cover the demographic move into the 0.7%, well, then we do not diminish the level compared to what the level is today, but we also have a development of prosperity in society as such. That is to say, if we were to be based on the expanded demographic trend, in other words where the level of welfare is not only deteriorating, but is also improving in line with the general development of prosperity in society, then it is not 0.7 per cent that we are talking about. Then it's in the vicinity of 1.1%. I also have a technical question which I would like the rapporteur for the proposers to address in his rapporteur's speech. Indeed, it says that there is a desire for growth in public consumption in line with demographic pressure. And public consumption is defined in a fairly specific way. After all, it consists of the services provided by the public to the public, for example. medical care, education and police. And public consumption is divided into individual and collective consumption when we define it. Individual consumption is what is being used by the individual citizen in society, for example. medical care and education. And then we have the collective consumption that is made available to society as a whole, and that includes, for example. police, courts and defense. That is to say, if they are 0.7 per cent. is calculated on the basis of all that we normally define as public consumption, then the defence will also be included here. And I would say that a more natural starting point would have been to say 0.7 per cent. in relation to the individual part in relation to public consumption. But it's just to understand. Because let's say 0.1%. of the 0.7%. We have 0.6% of the appropriations for defence, and then we have a situation where sufficient funds have not been allocated to cover the demographic move. That clarification would be nice to have. There is another question I would like to ask, and that is why I think this proposal should be put to the vote in this Chamber, even if the DF says that it agrees in substance. Because this is not a proposal which has something to do with exactly the negotiations that are going on in the red building, as you can see 50 m further along the way at the Ministry of Finance. They are sitting somewhere else. This has something to do with how the development of our welfare should be towards 2025. So I think it is quite clear that if we adopt this, it will be a major political step forward in relation to how the discussion on welfare in the municipalities has been going over the last ten years. So I think we should finally adopt this. So I hope this is a clear signal that, at a change of government and with a possible future social democratic government, there will be public spending on welfare, which will at least ensure that the demographic move is covered. That is how I understand it, and the Social Democrat rapporteur must confirm it when it is time to come up here. Against this background, the Enhedslisten is, of course, very much in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208130554	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone wishing to make brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208130619	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in this debate today on demographic trends. Sometimes you think, if there are citizens who should sit and listen, whether it makes any sense to them at all. Now I can say a little bit about what it is. It is a concept that is used in the Ministry of Finance, and it covers, among other things, that there is some public service expenditure, and if, as such, it is assumed that the expenditure must keep up with demographic developments, that is to say, with population development, they must be of a certain size. However, it is such a very technical concept, on which the Ministry of Finance itself writes [in its answer to Question No. 321 (Alm. It should be stressed that the calculation of the demographic trait is of a mechanical nature and must be interpreted cautiously in general. The demographic trait is primarily used as an element in a long-term sustainability calculation and is therefore not aimed at making calculations of, for example, the precise expenditure aspect in individual years in the short term. For example, the calculation does not take into account that the cost of an additional user may differ from the average cost per user. user..... This presupposes that if there is an additional user of public service and the additional user is an elderly person in a nursing home, the extra elderly person is just as expensive as the first elderly person, that is, that there are no economies of scale in the public production of services at all. And I must also say that when the Ministry of Finance itself says that this concept must be interpreted with caution, it is certainly not what the Social Democrats are doing in this resolution, it is anything but a cautious interpretation of the concept. That is why I think that this motion for a resolution reflects such an extremely technocratic approach to economic policy and to welfare policy. The premiss is, like, to increase simply public spending, welfare automatically improves. Of course, this is not the case. If you steer according to the demographic trait, it only means that welfare becomes more expensive to produce, not that we get more or better welfare. It can be seen that, over the last many, many decades, the Danes have become richer and have gained a higher standard of living and can buy more goods for their wages, can go on more vacations, can buy more food, more clothes, etc., and the fact that we have lifted our standard of living considerably is due to the fact that productivity in society has increased, that we have become better at exploiting the resources we have at our disposal. That is what creates prosperity in the long run. Therefore, it is also the case that if Danes are to have more welfare in the long run, it is absolutely essential that welfare becomes cheaper to produce, not more expensive. If you are genuinely concerned that the Danes should have more welfare, you also have to be concerned about how to increase productivity in public production, and generally also about how to increase productivity in the economy. This is the prerequisite for increased prosperity, and this is the prerequisite for better welfare in the future. That is why I think it is irresponsible to look blindly at the demographic trait, which is what the Social Democrats are doing here today. I fully recognise that the easiest thing in the world for a politician is to pretend to citizens that as long as we spend more money, everything is good. But it just doesn't change the fact that this is populism of the worst drawer, and frankly, what we are discussing here is whether we increase public spending or public spending by 7 per thousand per year. That is what we are discussing here. We have a discussion that everything is just going to be good and that the prerequisite for getting more welfare is that we just increase public spending by 7 per thousand per year. If you think about it a little, you'll see that it's not serious. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131156	There is, for the time being, a short note inscribed. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131202	I just need to be absolutely sure that I have understood Mr. Simpson. Joachim B. Olsen correctly when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that wanting a public consumption of 0.7 per cent. For that matter, it is an expression of populism of the worst drawer. And so it can only be confirmed here in the Chamber that when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says so, is it not only aimed at the proposers, but also, for example, at the Danish People's Party's Support Party, which has the same view?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131255	Was that the question to the rapporteur? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131259	No, it is perfectly legitimate to want public consumption growth of 0.1, 0.5 or 0.1. It is entirely legitimate political desires to have, but what is untrue is to try to pretend to the electorate that it is only the demographic trait that is important in terms of getting more and better welfare in the future, because that is not true. What is absolutely essential is that the public sector, like the private sector, should become more productive, in other words that we should be more efficient in terms of exploiting resources. What makes it possible for us to get more prosperity in the future is that we are getting better at producing it, namely that we are making better use of resources so that we have higher productivity. It's not just saying that if we just use 7 more per thousand in the future, then everything's good. It's not serious. If the Social Democratic Party wanted a serious discussion on how to get more welfare in the future, then that was about, not how much we put into the public sector, but about what we get out of it, we put in how to increase productivity and efficiency in the public sector. This is what is crucial, first and foremost, for citizens to be able to gain more prosperity in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131424	Thank you. The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131429	Then I just have to get it right. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen emphasized the concept of economies of scale. For example, when there are more of a particular population that needs welfare, economies of scale can be achieved. By 2025 it is assumed that there will be 150,000 more citizens over 70 years of age. Many of them will of course be in a super good physical state, but everything else equal means that there will be more people who need public help. Is the answer to the 150,000 citizens that they should not be worried about that at all, because economies of scale are achieving that? I do not quite think that is what I have heard either the Government's Minister for the Elderly say or, incidentally, in the publications produced by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131528	Well, I think that this issue only highlights the populism that exists in this debate. Fortunately, it is the case that we politicians have the opportunity, for example. prioritising. We can give priority to spending in different parts of the public sector. That is why we could give priority to spending more on the elderly in the future, while at the same time increasing productivity through new technologies to help the elderly and so on. That is what ends up being the answer if we are to have more welfare in the future. And then I actually think that what we all want about the elderly is the kind of thing that we all want. We want our parents and grandparents to have a good care in the future. However, to claim that savings cannot also be made in the older sector, I find it strange. For the government, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht himself was part of, set up a Productivity Commission which found that precisely in the area of older people there was potential to increase productivity by up to 10%. So if we really have a sincere desire in here to ensure better welfare in the future, it is first and foremost a question of us getting better at using the resources and not a bit of a bad discussion that if we just add 7 per thousand every year, then everything is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208131707	Thank you. We are here today discussing a resolution by the Social Democratic Party to ensure security of welfare. After all, there has to be real growth in public consumption of approx. 0,7 per cent annually from 2018 to 2025. I think it is very good that the Social Democrats have tabled this resolution because it allows us to discuss what we want the public sector to look forward to. I do not think it is a populist proposal, as the former Liberal Alliance rapporteur has spoken of it as up here from the platform. And the reason why I do not think so is that it is infinitely important to discuss what it is for a public sector we would like to see forward-looking. We have only discussed demographic developments, and I fully agree with that, and it is all parties that we have much more elderly people, but one of the things that has not been debated at all is that the elderly we have today live longer. Thus, the governing parties may be right to say that, because they are getting fresher and live longer, we do not need to spend more money on them, and technological developments, etc. also means that we will have more money available in the public sector. I think that is simply not correct. I think that some of what you want to do as an elderly person and we can look at the older generation that is on the way now is that you want to live longer in your own home. The way in which we ensure that people can stay longer in their own homes is that there is a support with staff coming out and helping and having time to be with the older person and it costs money. It costs money to have people employed in the public sector. And the reports we are receiving today from the public sector are that the public sector employees, among other things. in the area of the elderly, is extremely pressured. That is why I believe that we will shoot ourselves in the foot if we cut down more and more on the public sector and public welfare, as the government parties are proposing. That is also why the alternative can support this proposal. I don't care if it's 0.7%. or 0.8%. Or 0.6%, in fact, is not really what matters to us. What is crucial is that we constantly assess whether we have enough money available in the public sector to provide the welfare and care that we all want. There I think, when you look at the Danish population and at these questionnaire surveys, that not many people do not agree that we should have a strong public welfare. After all, we also know that strong public welfare supports the private sector, and that is also what ensures that we have a good business environment that can run their businesses because they know that there is strong public welfare in the form of schools, health care, care for the elderly, etc., that a good and stable workforce can be provided. In the debate we have also addressed the re-priority contribution and the green harvesting method. We in the Alternative would very much like to ensure that the money is delivered to the municipalities, the regions and the institutions so that they can give priority to themselves. The trend that has been that it is we in here that have to give priority to what the municipalities should spend the money on is a really bad idea, because it has to happen in the municipalities. That is also where we have the people we need to support, who know what is going on and what needs to be given priority by municipalities and regions themselves. I think I will stop here and say, as I said in the middle of my speech, that we support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132114	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132122	Thank you very much. It has been a lively and exciting debate today. Let me start with the good news, if I may say so: in the Radical Left we are also in favour of public growth of at least 0.7%. This can be seen both from our draft budget and from our 25-year economic plan, and it is simply due to the demographic features already mentioned by several rapporteurs and to the fact that we find it quite unsustainable with the green harvesters in progress, especially in the field of education. As I mentioned briefly to the Minister for Finance, we have come to the conclusion that education is currently being reduced by 17 000 posts in the education sector, not to mention outside the large cities. This is just one example of how it helps nothing when the government, with one hand, wants to relocate state jobs in the order of 4,000 and with the other hand cuts down so hard on educational institutions outside the big cities that you help to drain life in rural and provincial areas. In general, education and research in our optics are a completely crazy place to save at a time when we are looking into ever faster technological development and increasingly harder competition with abroad. We still have many Danes who need training, and we need to keep training better. There is no need for less education, there is no need for more. And it is not a question of either vocational schools or academic education, it is a question of both, and it is a question of research. We are deeply opposed to the savings made by the government on the future of our young people and everyone. That is why we are in fact in favour of the basic tone and basic message of the motion for a resolution. Then comes the more bad news, if I may say so, the reservations we have. The Minister for Finance referred to some more fundamental considerations about such a freeze four years ahead without the possibility of regulating in relation to the economic reality that we are facing. And I agree with that, technically and in principle. I now read more of the motion for a resolution by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament in such a way that, if the economic situation looks as we think it is today, if it looks as reasonable as it does then we will find it justifiable with a public growth rate of 0.7 per cent. We agree with that, but it might well be that we should formulate it a little differently so that we do not break with the good tradition we have in order to adapt our fiscal policy according to the economic situation we are looking into. There could, in principle, be a new financial crisis, or what do I know? That is one reservation. The second reservation we have is that we do not really see that there is only a need for public growth. Other investments and reforms are also needed. So it is important for me to emphasise that it is not just public growth that we are going to vote on. We think we need more. Let me give you an example: today it is very, very difficult for the elderly, who are worn out, to get an early retirement pension. There is a great difference between how early retirement is practised in different municipalities. We want to make it easier for worn-out elderly people to get out of the labour market, but it also requires that the elderly and those of us who can work longer actually do so. These are the sort of things that this is about. So of course these are 0.7 per cent. a very simple way of talking about the economic paradigm of the future. So there we have a reservation. Finally, and this is probably the most important thing for us, I do not want to hide it from you, we want to make sure that we are safe, and that may be something like that in the wake of what Mr. Rune Lund was talking about what it really is, these 0.7%. cover. Does it cover individual public consumption, or does it cover wider than that? And for us it is absolutely essential that it should at least cover the fact that we have stopped the green harvester of education, that is to say that the 0.7%, which may be a majority in favour here, also means that the savings on vocational training, other youth education and so on. can be avoided. So that is one of the things that we would very much like to discuss with the Social Democrats and other positive parties, and that is why I think that our recommendation to the proposers would be that we might try to write a report or at least clarify some of these things before the proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132611	There was just one more brief comment. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132618	I'm just gonna listen to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard: What makes the greatest improvement in welfare? Is it that you increase public consumption by 7 per thousand, i.e. that you use approx. 530 billion kr. in public consumption per year, if you increase the budget by 7 per million per year, or if you increase the productivity of the total public consumption here by 530 billion. kr. 2%. a year, i.e. you use it 2%. Better? What is the greatest improvement in the welfare of our citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132659	Well, that certainly depends on how to find the 2%. I do not see the 2% going on in vocational schools and youth education at the moment as an increase in efficiency, in the sense that more productivity is achieved. I understand that there is less education, because there are limits to that, I have to say frankly. When we talk about a high school or a vocational school, you can save 2 or 4 per cent. on buildings and technicality, but by far the major cost of teaching hours, so at some point you cut the teaching. It is not for me to see productivity, it is not an increase in welfare. So it is not that simple, I would say to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. But why not, could I ask back, do both? Why not both bet on keeping up with and increasing the quality of education, care for the elderly, etc. and, of course, at the same time, make it more efficient where you can? I agree with the questioner on this point. Of course, there is potential for efficiency. We would also like to share in the harvest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132759	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132802	I'm kind of glad that Mr. Martin Lidegaard says it's not that simple, because I think this discussion is marked by simplifying it crazy. It is said that we are now talking about the demographic move and about the fact that we have to increase spending by 7 per thousand per year. I should have asked in another way. If you can produce 2%. more for the same money, does it not provide better welfare compared to just increasing budgets by 7 more per thousand more without increasing efficiency? Well, it's just simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132842	Well, it does, theoretically speaking, in any math book. Well, you could say that yourself. But the interesting question here is whether you can streamline by 2%. in all public institutions, in all educational institutions and in all secondary educations for 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10 years. I agree that we should not simplify this debate because, of course, something can be made more effective with new technologies. But it is then to simplify the debate to say that you can always do so wherever in the public sector you talk about. So there we also have to be a little more qualitative in relation to where we think it makes sense and where we do not think it makes sense. Overall, it is known that we are becoming many more older and that we will need much more education. That is why the Radical Left believes that, overall, we need both efficiency and more resources for the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132934	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is rapporteur Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208132950	Thank you and thank the Socialists for having tabled this motion for a resolution. We find this very welcome from the SF. If, at the beginning of the debate, there had been some citizens out there following it, they would probably have gone off now because of all the many times we have discussed demographic features and so on, so I might as well continue in the a little nerdish section, as I think it is important that we talk about the same thing. There has been a lot of focus from the finance minister on the past and on what public spending was under the former VK government and under the Thorning government and then now again, and actually we should sit together, perhaps somewhere else than in the Parliament hall, and then really go into depth with these things, because it's more complicated than that. Danmarks Statistik and others who calculate what we use in the public sector say it is important to calculate it on both inputs and outputs, and it can be said that if output of the funds we use for public consumption increases faster than input, it means that productivity in the public sector increases. In fact, it has been doing so for a number of years now. This also means that the public sector is also productive; so we are better at solving the tasks of the same money. When I say that, it is actually too little to put a stake through what I hear in some places, namely that the public sector is completely hopeless, bureaucratic, cannot improve, because that is not true. The Minister for Finance said that the health service had had a sharp increase in productivity over the last many years, and that is absolutely right. It is there, and it is also great, but at some point it was too much of the good, and that is what we hear from a large number of health workers, from doctors, from midwives, from healthcare professionals, from nurses, namely that at some point they have to run too fast per year. output, pr. Surgery, pr. person who is hospitalised. Behind all these words are real people, and that is also what I heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is where you tighten the screw too much, and in this way efficiency can also become a very quantitative concept in that you just have to measure how many operations you can run through. Citizens also have the right to feel that there is, for example, a feeling that they are able to do so. is hospitalized in health care, is time that there are doctors who have time to review their medical records, that there are no mistakes and that they feel they are getting proper treatment, but it is immediately harder to measure. I think we should listen to all the public employees in the public sector who say that now the screw is tightened too much, now there are simply too many children per year. Pedagogics, now there are too many patients per year. Nurse, pr. Doctor, now the SOSUs are alone with too many elderly people. Time and again we hear stories about older people who can't go to the bathroom when they have to, not being cared for properly. That is not fair, and I therefore believe that instead of focusing solely on how much money we spend on the public sector, we should look at the quality of the public sector. After all, the Minister for Finance is right to say that a great deal of money is being spent on health care, and more and more money is being spent on it. The problem is, in particular, in health care, that it is an inexhaustible area. We will always be able to spend more money on health care as long as we do not break up with the very high pharmaceutical prices, and we can also say that the money is absorbed by the new technologies, the new machines, etc., and that is why we need to focus on what quality is. Today it has been reduced, and when I say reduced, I do not mean it in a negative way, but reduced to a figure, and that figure is what all experts say, including the Ministry of Finance itself, is what it takes to have the same service in the future as it is today. I do not think it is good enough today, as the SF does not think it is, and that is why we should look not only at the demographic features, but also at the services, welfare services that citizens expect when we also get richer as a country. It was sir. Rune Lund also mentioned. The general increase in welfare in society also means that if there are new methods of treatment for a disease, the citizens expect that to be something we deliver. Basically, I find it strange that we do not recognise that the reason why we want to be richer, to have more wealth, is to be able to take better care of each other, to take better care of citizens, to ensure better service, to ensure that there are not so many children per year. Pedagogics. I suppose that is the aim of getting richer, because otherwise it doesn't matter. Therefore, I do not see that it is a problem to use that wealth to ensure proper welfare in the future. In conclusion, I still have not received a satisfactory response from the Minister for Finance to where all this money can be saved in the public sector. From the SF we think it is very good to get a bottom below and say that then the political battle can be taken with how much more welfare we should have, but the bottom must be that we should keep the status quo as a minimum. I think that is a rather humble wish and that is why the SF supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208133613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208133629	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the good, constructive debate and perhaps some will also say long debate. I understand that there are, of course, many things to be done at Christiansborg at this time, and that is why I must also try to summarize the questions and comments that were also coming along. First of all, however, I would like to make it clear that the Social Democrats have tabled this resolution, which reflects our main priority, in other words to ensure the security of welfare in the years to come once and for all. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that only by investing in our welfare, in education, in jobs and in the safety of the Danes can we strengthen and build on our unique social model. With this motion for a resolution, the Social Democrats want to ensure security of welfare, so that every year towards the year 2025, at least growth in public consumption is included in line with demographic trends. And maybe just for the record, I'm gonna have to put some maybe a little low-practical words on that with the demographic pressure. For as among others: The SF's rapporteur mentioned, there may well be some for whom it is such a little distant term. But I think that is at least the way that I often see people understand the demographic trait that you have to explain it by the fact that there are more Danes. In other words, the population is growing, and this in itself is helping to increase the demand for welfare. In addition, the composition of the population is changing so that there are relatively more people who are up in the years. In round figures there will be 150,000 citizens over 70 years of age in 2025 than there are today. In other words, there will be a different demand for the welfare tasks offered by the public sector. So the pressure on the public sector is increasing as we live longer and we get older. And it is good that the Danish people have the prospect of living longer. That is something that needs to be stressed. But that also requires that we allocate money to ensure that the welfare system is able to keep up with population development. And according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, it will cost 25 billion. kr. in the year 2025 to maintain the current level of welfare, when in this way we have a changed population composition and become more older and, incidentally, more citizens in general. The consequence of not doing so is in the long term a worse level of welfare for the Danes. Unfortunately, from the government's policy presented, we can see that it is the government's long-term policy objective to reduce public consumption growth. It means a lower level of welfare. The Government's objective of a growth in public consumption of 0.3%. will mean that by the year 2025 we have invested 121⁄2 billion. kr. less than what it takes to maintain the current level of welfare. And we have a vertical disagreement with that priority. We must not save on our common close welfare in order to find money for top tax relief. And no matter how you turn it, the money can only be used once. We want to ensure security of welfare before we make up whether there is money for tax relief. And if there is, they must be given at the bottom. We have noted that there is a broad political desire to secure a bottom under welfare. This resolution therefore gives the parties that share the view of the Social Democratic Party the opportunity to put action behind the words by imposing on the government a course different from the one in which the level of welfare over the years to come is eroded and, instead, to ensure that the money needed to ensure security of our welfare is set aside. And that is why, of course, I also hope that the Danish People's Party, when it has expressed itself so positively on this proposal today, will also help put action behind the words. How this can be done in practice, I am sure we will have ample opportunity to discuss it in the next committee, also on the basis of the statements made, for example, by the Radical Left. Of course, however, the majority behind this motion for a resolution can ensure that the government does not spend the money that will help to ensure that our schools, our elderly care and day care institutions are provided with tax relief. As I said, we believe that they should instead be given priority to the core welfare. And I understand that there is also a majority of parties in the Folketing who agree with that principle. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the resolution only sets a lower limit to ensure that public consumption follows the demographic trend. Therefore, our proposal does not rule out the possibility of more funds being allocated to public consumption. In relation to a number of the comments made by the rapporteurs, I would just like to turn them around and round them. First of all, the question from the Enhedslisten. The same question was also raised by the rapporteur of the Radicals, namely the question of individual versus collective consumption and, therefore, in particular the question of the position of defence in relation to public consumption. Here I would like to make it clear that when we talk about securing the bottom of welfare, defence is an external part of it. That is to say, when we have indicated to the government that we are willing to help strengthen our defence, it is not funds that we recognise in relation to the demographic trait. These are separate investments. It must also be said that everything else is equal, there is a broad majority in the Folketing which has also indicated that it is ready to support a significant strengthening of defence. In relation to the Liberal Alliance, I feel it is necessary to say that it is a gross misunderstanding when it is claimed that social democracy promises that everything should be gold and green forests, as long as we safeguard the demographic trait. That is by no means what we mean. Of course, we also need to reform society. We must also, in particular, give more confidence to individual employees, but ensuring the demographic trait is to hold hands under welfare where we find that the current government is doing the opposite. I would also like to thank the alternative for the supporting words and remarks. Same thing for SF. To the SF, however, I have to say that I can respond to a great deal from the floor of the Parliament, but I cannot give the answers the rapporteur wanted from the Minister for Finance. The Minister for Finance himself must explain this, and I hope, of course, that the Minister will do so in connection with the committee's examination of this proposal. Thank you, too, for the positive expressions of the Radicals in relation to the principles and, above all, of course, in relation to the question of education. There I think it is important to make it clear that this resolution is, of course, about ensuring what we all care about: proper care for our elderly people, our children in day care institutions and our education programmes, which the government has saved massively. The first priority in this respect must therefore be to ensure that there is money to cover demographic developments, so that the government does not use the room for manoeuvre to distribute tax cuts. We do not support the savings made by the government. And, of course, a prerequisite for dealing with this in the future will be to ensure that the necessary resources are also available to the public sector. In relation to what is happening year by year with developments in society, as the Radical rapporteur also mentioned, I have to say that if it had been the case that the current government had had a starting point that had been 0.7 considered as an average, I would probably not be as concerned as we Social Democrats are, because the starting point of the current government is 0.3. That is why we have to say that it is probably necessary to use a few other methods. I understand the point of departure which the radical rapporteur also makes, i.e. the fact that it is possible to imagine that something is going on year by year and that there are some developments that are changing and such things, but in relation to that one must say that it assumes that one has a government which, as such, is fulfilling one's responsibilities. And there I just have to correct the Finance Minister, who was postulated, that in the time of the SR government there was no average sales in public consumption corresponding to the demographic trait. It was there in the time of the SR government. From 2012 to 2015, there was an average public growth of 0.6 and the demographic trend over the same period was 0.5%. average. I can see from the President that my speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134702	It's the first 10 minutes well and certainly. But there are four inscribed for short remarks, so there is the possibility of more discussion and debate. The first to brief remarks is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134715	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask a few questions about the issue of individual and collective public spending, for of the approx. A thousand billion. kr., we spend on public expenditure each year, the public consumption stands for almost half of the rest is made up of investments and transfer income. And out of that proportion, individual public consumption accounts for 33 per cent. of the total, and the collective for 14 per cent, at least according to the most recent figures I have. After all, the share of public consumption will be upset if the same level is maintained, for example. 0.7 per cent, and then increases the share of collective consumption, for example. Defense. If you increase it a lot, it will eat into individual public spending, that is, what most people will call core welfare. This may in fact mean that, at the bottom we would like to put under public spending, the proportion of core welfare will be reduced if more money is spent both on police and defence, and so on, which is quite legitimate, but not what we are discussing today, as I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134843	Yes, and that is why I have indicated precisely in this question that when we talk about defence, which of course, we have to assume that it will probably have to be considerably strengthened, we do not see it as part of what we want to put within the 0.7%, that is, the demographic move. It can be a little more difficult with some of the other elements. If, for example, you're gonna have to... In the case of the SSP cooperation, where is it in relation to the collective versus the individual? It may be a little more difficult to define clearly, and that is why I believe that the best thing to be able to respond calmly to SF's concerns here is to say that when it comes to defence, it is not included in the 0.7% as we imagine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134948	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208134951	I am very pleased that the rapporteur is saying this and that is why it would perhaps be an idea for us to sit together in committee and perhaps put a little more words into it. For public consumption is, of course, a fixed size, both individual and collective, and when the rapporteur says so clearly that what he is talking about is core welfare, that is, individual public consumption, then perhaps you could put some words on it and say that, of course, there must also be money for defence, police and courts and all that, but what we very many of us want to put under is what is at stake in core welfare, in other words where the demographic trait really matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135036	I would very much like to put a lot more words on all the words that may be necessary at all, especially if it is the case that a majority outside the government requires the government to ensure that welfare is guaranteed up to 2025 if otherwise the current government should survive so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135053	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135058	I would like to thank the Social Democrats for the debate and the motion for a resolution, and thank them also for the fact that we in the committee can continue the discussion on how to kick it here in concrete terms. However, I would like to see the rapporteur, who will hardly be surprised if he does so. Benny Engelbrecht could be a little bit more precise than that with the savings on education. For now we are agreed that money must be set aside to boost public consumption. I also understand that we disagree with the savings made by the government on the training courses... these two percent. with the green harvester every year. Then it is staggering to conclude that the Social Democratic Party agrees with the Radical Left that we are going to drop the green harvester on education in the future. Couldn't we just get it cemented once and for all? Because then we have it in place, and I think there are a lot of educational institutions in Denmark that will be very happy about that, and it will also mean a lot to our desire to actively support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135207	In any case, it is clear that if we implement the economic policy of the present government, it is really difficult to imagine that this can be done without there being a lot of green harvesting, among other things. in the education sector, and that is the challenge. So a prerequisite for getting there is, you might say, the springboard. The challenge is, of course, that even if this motion for a resolution is adopted, it will still be the government in office at any time which negotiates a financial law with the majority that it can now obtain even if it has been required to secure the 0.7%. And it would be fine if both of our parties were to be involved in financial laws. There just hasn't been any experience that we've been. If it is the case that we are in a situation where there is a different color government, that is a different situation, but this resolution was probably not necessary either. Is it unreasonable to have this green harvester in the education sector? Yes, it is. Does the Social Democratic Party support the practice of green harvesting? No, we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135320	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135325	I think we're getting closer. In other words, I fully agree that the Socialist financial rapporteur cannot guarantee that we will have the green harvester stopped in this financial law and, in principle, cannot guarantee that, if there is a change of government, we will be able to negotiate it. But what I'm after is the social democracy's own attitude. Now we heard that they are against the green harvester. I am told that this is the same thing: I just want to make sure that I heard correctly that one wants to abolish the green harvester on education in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135400	In other words, we do not like using the green harvester in this way and taking money out of the education sector. But I do not want to say that one cannot imagine that one can have efficiency in the education sector, where, for example, the funds can be returned to it. If so, how to set it up, we will have to see. But we do not like the method adopted by the present government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135430	The next brief remark is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135437	Thank you for clarifying what is meant by public consumption in the proposal. I think, like Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that we must sit down together and then find out what exactly is the content of this proposal. Because it is just extremely important that public consumption is characterised by both the individual and the collective, that we agree on what we are talking about. So in this way, the proposal is perhaps a little unclear when we talk about the demographic features, but it is certainly a very good clarification, which the rapporteur has brought up from the platform, in relation to the fact that the military is not part of it. My question will be whether public spending minus defence, minus the military, as it stands here. Is it to be understood that this is now the position of the Social Democracy towards 2025, and is it therefore also something that the Social Democracy will work actively to become part of a future government basis if we get a new majority here in the Folketing after a forthcoming parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135542	As I indicated in my rapporteur's speech, this is our basic point of view. That is also what we have included in our political 2025 plan. It is clear that this is our basis in terms of work, whether we are in opposition as we are now, or whether we are fortunate enough to take over government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135604	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135610	I just want to thank you for that statement. It will certainly make some things much easier if we get a new majority. After all, it is no secret that many of the conflicts we had with the Thorning Government went precisely on the economic side and on the cuts and deteriorations which we also saw the next government behind it. If this is a new base which will be placed under our welfare societies in the context of the discussions that will take place and also the discussions that will be held with a new majority, then we will have some other discussions. But I think it is important that we can have that clarification. Because it has been a little difficult to persuade the Social Democrats to make promises in the economic field. Now we have a promise here and then it would be very nice if we could define it even more precisely than it is in the motion for a resolution. So we look forward to the work of the committee in relation to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135702	I just think that, for the sake of good order, I should remember to say that it is true that in the time of the SR government there was a year when there was a negative public consumption, namely in 2013, when it was at -0.6. But in 2012, for example, it was. of +1,1, in 2014 it was +1,1, and in 2015 it was +0,9. Therefore, when you look at the total time in the course of the SR government, you arrive at an average of +0.6, while in the same period the demographic trend was 0.5. This also means that even in a situation where we then say that the demographic trait must be met, it is not the same as thinking that we can make the country's roads flow in gold and honey. Well, it's still an expression of being able to live up to what we can today. You just have to remember that so you don't set your expectations too high.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135808	Then the next one is a brief comment, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135814	Thank you. After all, it is a couple of interesting educational discussions that have been here today, both with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and now I am excited about what is going to happen on the part of the Social Democratic Party. In this little pamphlet with the financial bill, it says that you will not have an efficiency in the field of vocational education. This is what the government has made an agreement with the social partners to take back, but not in the general field of education. Now the Social Democrats' finance rapporteur says that he thinks what the government has proposed is bad, and then I am excited to see whether there will be a concrete proposal from the Social Democratic Party or whether these were just empty promises. The same applies to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who thought 450 million is needed. kr. I'm also excited to see if it's coming. But we'll find out later. Now the rapporteur examined the public consumption figures so well under Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government, but that is contrary to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group, because it says that this growth must take place at least every year. The rapporteur himself explained that it was negative in 2013. Can we confirm that the Social Democrats, when they were in government, did not live up to the resolution that has now been tabled by the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208135936	It is simply amazing that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen has already forgotten what happened when we had the first reading of the Finance Act. Perhaps I can understand that, because it is simply sailing for the present government and for the Left. It seems that an agreement on the Finance Act is not close, and one could have invited the Social Democratic Party to negotiations if one wanted to. We've been to saying and writing one meeting. The coffee was warm, and it was nice, but that's also what there is to say about it. And that is not because we have ever said that we would not be involved in negotiating finance laws. We haven't been allowed to join, and that's the way it is. If sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen had read the pamphlet, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen now chooses to call it, thoroughly, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen has known that what it says is what we would have gone to the present government and negotiated, because we know very well that the current government is an anti-educational government and that this is what we thought was realistic to get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140041	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140043	But it's gonna be speechless. Look, I asked you two questions. I asked if you want to live up to what you were saying. I got a clear answer that you wouldn't. You say one thing, but you don't want to put action behind the words. I asked whether the resolution now before us by the Social Democrats would have been complied with when the last one was in government, and I suppose the rapporteur can confirm that this would not have been the case. Because, as the rapporteur said, there was negative growth in public consumption in 2013, and that would be in direct conflict with that resolution. It would only be liberating to have the honesty of the Social Democratic Party that now you come up with a proposal that would not have been complied with if it had come up when you last had government power.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140134	I understand that sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is speechless, not least in view of the fact that there has not actually been a financial agreement yet. So I understand you're usually shaken. Having said that, I have actually answered the question of average consumption once already, but I would like to repeat it: if it were the case that the current government did not have a starting point of 0.3 per cent. Torsten Schack Pedersen had a starting point of 0.7 per cent, so we didn't have a problem. If the starting point of the current government was to live up to the demographic trait, we would not be forced to impose it on it to do so. In other words, when the previous government, on average, lived up to the demographic trait, it is, of course, an expression that it is also what we want the present government to do. And since it will not, we must try to force it to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140230	Another remark made briefly. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140236	Some say the best defense is an attack. I promise you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht practises. That was a violent upset over a simple question. Because is it not true that when the Social Democratic Party was last in government, the Social Democrats did not live up to what they expect everyone else to live up to in the resolution that has been tabled by the Social Democrats now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140305	Was that the question? Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140307	I would like to repeat that this time without the excitement which I think is due to the influence which Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen always has on me, which makes my blood pressure rise a little bit. It is precisely the case that if only the current government had had a starting point, which was that people wanted to live up to the demographic features, we would not have the need to have this discussion at all. But as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen knows very well that the current government has a starting point of 0.3, and that is why the approach will be that we have to push the current government. We are happy to do so, and that is why, as I said, I am glad that there is a majority of parties here in the Danish Parliament that have indicated that they agree with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140400	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140403	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht is not answering the question. This government does not have an ambition to live up to demographic traits. This government has an ambition to increase public spending by 0.3. It is a political priority that we have. The Social Democrats' motion for a resolution says that a government must be this government and possibly a social-democratic government must have an expenditure pressure equivalent to a demographic move of 0.65%, as I think it is. But the question is that when the Social Democrats themselves were in government, they did not live up to what they were asking us to live up to, because then the demographic move was 0.5 and public consumption was an average of 0.1. We must then understand that the Social Democrats destroyed welfare when they were last in government because they did not live up to the demographic trait.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140510	There's no point in Mr. Joachim B. Olsen repeats figures that are wrong. During the period 2012-2015 the demographic trend was 0.5% and government consumption was on average 0.6%. There's no point in Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is shaking his head because that's how it was. You can jump and dance, but it's no use that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen sits and shakes his head because when mr. Joachim B. Olsen uses that figure, including a figure from 2011, where Social Democracy was not responsible for the Finance Act and where there was a very negative development in public spending. That is correct, but it does not alter the basic fact that if only the current government had had a starting point to always live up to the demographic trait, we would not have had to have this discussion at all, and there I am glad that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in his question just a moment ago has confirmed that you have not, because your starting point is 0.3.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140613	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171208140630	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 12 December 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
