ParlaMint-DK_20171212130027	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Finn Sørensen (EL), Bent Bøgsted (DF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Request no. 15 (What is the Minister's position on the six proposals for amendments to the legislation on early retirement and flexible work which were submitted to the Danish Parliament on 8 November 2017 by 59 trade unions and other interested organisations?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). It's gonna have to be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130105	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130126	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 10 by Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. Has everyone voted? We have to assume so. If there is not one running, I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and the next two proposals for adoption (proposal for adoption no. V 8 by Jep Jakobsen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 9 by Karin Gaardsted (S), Stine Brix (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) have therefore been abolished. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130305	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130318	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130348	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130403	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130433	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130453	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130518	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Flyvholm has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130551	Thank you. The new F-35 fighters are simply the largest single purchase in the history of the Danish state. At least 57 billion. kr. is at stake here, and it's really, really a lot of money. It's probably clear to most of you that we in the Enhedslisten absolutely don't want us to have these fighter planes. But even those of you who want them should think very carefully, because once these contracts are signed, it is the next generation that is forced to live with the consequences. This will last more than 30 years in the future. And there have been so many signs that this is a bottom-up project. The Danish National Audit Office has criticised the government's own calculations for being too optimistic. The U.S. Reichsaudit comes every year with a crazy list of problems that are with this F-35 project. And we actually have no way to make sure this doesn't get out of hand if we don't kick cold water in the blood now. It is also most regrettable that this contract with the American arms industry will bind us to a foreign policy where we have to get into several failed wars of attack and have to follow types like Donald Trump. Nor is it something I want for Danish foreign policy in the future. Recently, it has come to light in the last few weeks that there will be huge problems with noise for the residents of Skrydstrup, who will be next door to these fighter planes. These residents have been mistreated and have not been involved in the process. It has also been shown that we have received directly wrong answers from the Minister for Defence about these noise problems, and therefore information and important reports on the extent of the problem have not come up until now, when it is too late. That is simply not right. It is deeply irresponsible to ask the Committee on Finance to allocate money to a combat aircraft project with an economic basis so uncertain that billions could be exceeded in the budget. It is therefore also wrong to nod to a combat aircraft project before there is any clarity as to what is going to happen to the aircraft base where the aircraft should be and how things are going to go with these many people who will be affected by the noise. That's why we from the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF have asked you to at least postpone the signature of this combat aircraft purchase until some of these problems are solved, or divide the contract into smaller portions. That would be the fair thing to do. I really hope that you who are sitting in here will also remember that most of the Danish people are against this combat aircraft purchase, and I hope that each and every one of you is very aware that the decision you are making now has consequences, that you have been warned that this can go really, really wrong, and that you have to measure up to this decision for the next 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130902	Then I just have to remind you that you don't use direct indictments to the MPs just for another time. Thank you. There are no further comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen as the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212130919	There may not be a majority in favour of our motion for a resolution, which is why I think I should say to those colleagues who are voting against it that when you go to the Committee on Finance and vote in favour of this act, you are running a very, very high risk. This project is highly risky, especially in terms of economy, but also in terms of how stable it is. There are some who compare it to the IC4 project. Such comparisons should be taken care of, so I would not say that at first sight, it can actually get worse than that, but you have to be careful with such comparisons, I understand that. But there are big, big problems in it. There are only the various figures that have been advanced, which, after all, vary enormously in relation to what lifetime costs are. There was an internal report from the Ministry of Defence which came to the public here last week saying that there is 95 per cent. the probability that lifetime costs are between 60 and 87 billion. kr. That is something to be seen when the government says it will be 57 billion. kr. I believe that the chance for it to be only 57 billion. kr., is infinitely small, compared to the total cost being far, far greater than that. This means that there are some extremely large margins of uncertainty on this project. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that we are, after all, being heavily tied to the United States in relation to the operation of these aircraft. If we're gonna complain about the deliveries, it's gonna have to go through the United States. We can't complain directly to the manufacturer. If we're gonna have spare parts, it's gonna have to go through the American office that's running this project. And that means that, throughout the operational phase, we will be very dependent on what the Americans are doing. Whether this means that we are directly dependent on American foreign policy, I would not argue, but we are at least entering into a relationship of dependence with the United States, which I do not think is wise in relation to Danish foreign policy. Then, as has been said, there is much more noise pollution than has actually been said. It's causing a lot of trouble down around Skrydstrup. The neighbors of Skrydstrup are very worried about what's going to happen to the houses they live in. Can they keep them, can they live down there? Again, this noise problem shows something about how the defense has informed us about these things. We received a reply from the defence committee that the F 35 aircraft are noisy more than the F 16 aircraft, but less than the other two competitors. When you go to the government on the blade, it turns out it's not planes on planes. They noise less because fewer are bought If you look at the individual aircraft, the F 35 is actually the noisiest. It's just such an example of how I think the Department of Defense hasn't been completely trotting on this case. I am also convinced that examples of this can be found in the economic calculations. In other words, this is deadly. Then it is that we are some who say to ourselves: we only have to buy 10 planes in the first place; we do not have to buy all 27 planes at once, because that is not how it is built. We have to buy 10 aircraft in the first place, and then we later make some new tranches with new aircraft purchases. Why do we have to grant money to all 27 aircraft now, when at first we only need money for 10 aircraft? Is it not most natural that money should be allocated to 10 aircraft instead of 27 aircraft? The real problem in this is that with this act you give the defense a bag of money of 16.6 billion. kr. to buy some aircraft, without there being much parliamentary control over how things are going afterwards. In other words, the Financial Committee will be put out of business when this document is adopted. Well, you get some briefings, yeah, we know what it's like. But why not do as in Norway, where new appropriations are needed every time new contracts are signed? That would be the most natural thing, I think, and the most responsible, so that the Finance Committee and the Danish Parliament can have more regular control over how this project is going. Now you risk buying the cat in the bag; you risk giving the defense a bag of money. We can then hope that everything is going well and that it will be some aircraft that the defence will be pleased with and which will not cause the financial problems we can hope for. But frankly, have we not been out in very large social investments where we have had that hope? I'm looking at former traffic ministers. Have we not had many examples that we have had the hope and where it turns out that it has not done so, in other words that there is some experience that this type of project will be much more expensive than was imagined? We are a few who are a little worried that the same thing is happening here, and that is why we are asking that the Folketing not only leave this whole money bag to the defence at once, but that we split it up so that we have more control over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212131535	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212131625	I had to take the floor here because so much was said wrong that it would take a little longer to explain it than I could just make a brief comment. I think it is quite reasonable that we should be critical of the information that is being provided in connection with the F-35 purchase. We're at Conservatives, too. We want proper information to be provided and decisions to be taken with open eyes so that we know what the consequences will be of the flight we are facing. However, the criticism must also be fair. It should not be about the fact that, like the left, you are simply opposed to fighter planes and are doing everything you can to postpone the decision and possibly try to delay it so much that it will eventually be prevented. The fighter planes are necessary. Our F-16s can't do this anymore. It is not a question of merely flying less well, it is a question of simply having no more flying hours left. It is the case with aircraft that if you bend some metal a certain number of times, it breaks at the end, and you can calculate how many flying hours you can have, and we are reaching the limit where there is simply a danger that the planes break, the hulls break, and therefore the planes simply cannot fly anymore. Therefore, it is important that we make this decision about the purchase of F-35 aircraft, so that Denmark will not be left without an air force, without combat aircraft, which is absolutely crucial for Danish defence. That is why it is important that we do not delay this resolution any more than is necessary. Many wrong things are said in the criticism of the purchase of the fighter aircraft. Among other things: Very often we hear this comparison with the IC4 trains. There is no real comparison with the IC4 trains. The IC4 train was a specific Danish train, which was made specifically for Denmark, and this caused a lot of problems because it had to be made, specialised, for us. The F-35s are a major public investment, but that stops the comparison too. It is an aircraft that is produced in about 3,000 copies. So it's a shelf. It's a plane we're making with the United States. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen made it sound like it was a big problem. It is a huge advantage that the plane is being made with the United States. It ensures that the costs are kept down, it ensures that we are in good hands. We have some people who are negotiating for us so that we do not have a weak negotiating position vis-à-vis Lockheed Martin, but we have the entire American defence budget to negotiate with. It's a huge advantage. Then it is true that the planes are going to noise more. One must be willing to accept that these planes are making noise, and that really gives us some problems down at Skrydstrup, which we need to solve. But basically, we need these planes. Of course, no one knows what the price will be in the end. But at least I feel that the figures that have been presented now seem correct. It is fair estimates that allow us to vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212131931	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212131937	I now believe that the comparison with IC4 can be so successful and that there is a very high probability that there will be major technical problems with this project and very high probability that the aircraft will be much more expensive. By the way, I have to say that the spare parts for F-35 are made at exactly the same factory in Italy that made IC4. So perhaps I think that there is reason to show a little more due diligence than the rapporteur shows here. But what I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur feel comfortable with the calculations that are now in the hands of the government, among other things. on how many flying hours can get out of the planes, how much the pilots can work? Does the rapporteur think this is going to hold true?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132022	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132023	After all, it is not the Italians who are producing this plane, it is Lockheed Martin, the American manufacturer who has been making fighter planes for generations, who have also made the F-16s, and who we can have great confidence in can find out how to make fighter planes. So I think it's a joke, this comparing it to IC4. There is the parallel that they both consist of an abbreviation with three characters, but in addition I do not see the great similarities between the two projects. I feel convinced that the costs will last. Whether or not flight lessons last, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132059	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132102	I would really like that to be clarified. If the rapporteur cannot be sure that the flight hours will last and that it will be on the basis of the pilots, is it a viable basis to adopt this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132115	I am not convinced that we will have the number of hours of flight as stated in the decision-making framework, but that does not change the fact that we need the aircraft. What I can be in doubt about is whether we get as many flying hours as it has been estimated by the government. If we do not, then we should buy more aircraft, not fewer, and that is certainly no reason not to buy the 27 aircraft that we will be voting through in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132140	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132143	The rapporteur says it is necessary to have fighter aircraft in the Danish defence. I would say that in most of the cases where they have been in real use, they have done more harm than they have done good. Of course, it is not the aircraft's fault; it is the fault of the senseless politicians who have decided that they should go for dubious and problematic actions around the world. The rapporteur does not reply to Mr McMillan-Scott's question. Holger K. Nielsen on his very, very central question: Why on earth should the defense have all the money now? Why should we not, as wise and cautious politicians, say that we sometimes deal with it, as is done in Norway? There's no problem with that? Why on earth is there a difference between Denmark and Norway in this question? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132228	What is behind Enhedslisten's position here is that one wants later to prevent the money being given that the Defence needs to buy fighter planes. I am in favour of the immediate allocation of this amount, so that the defence has security about its economy, and so that we know that there is money to buy the fighter planes in the future, and so that we do not suddenly, in negotiations on some financial law, stand and have to give priority to fighting planes and older people's care or primary school or something, when we know that the Enhedslisten will of course downgrade the fighter planes. I think this is necessary. I think these are about. 2 billion kr. a year, as it costs to get the F-35s distributed over a 30-year lifetime, is worth the money. I think it's worth the money to make sure we have a strong Danish air force.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132312	Sir. Christian Juhl asks for the floor, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132314	I didn't get an answer to Mr. Holger K. Nielsens's question. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has not said that he would use all the means to fight these planes. He just wanted to make sure that we can take that step by step like Norway. When you can in Norway, you can also in Denmark. But thank you very much for the arguments that it is to prevent increases in social expenditure, it was then a clear message. But why can't we do the same in Norway if there are some cautious people like this? Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in the hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132346	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132347	I think I replied very precisely to that, namely that I think it is best that the money should be disposed of immediately, so that the defence has security for its economy and so that we do not have to sit in conjunction with each financial law in the future and discuss whether or not we should continue the combat aircraft programme. I understand that one might wish to do so if one is opposed to the combat aircraft programme, but as a supporter of the combat aircraft programme, I would prefer to see us create the financial framework that will enable us to be sure that the programme can continue for the next 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132412	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132416	Thank you. I just want to correct a misunderstanding. We are not opposed to the replacement of the old F-16s, because we are in agreement with them, but we just think it is too much money to spend on it and we want to have more control over how the money is spent. In reality, however, I find the speech by the rapporteur of the Conservatives to be interesting, in view of the thunders and bangs with which he went out of the defence settlement when these fighter planes were bought. At that time there were no limits to the problems of the combat aircraft agreement, and the Conservatives were some of the greatest critics of it at that time. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, what has happened since the Conservative People's Party is today praising this combat aircraft agreement, whereas when it was concluded, it was very opposed? Does it have anything to do with the Conservative People's Party's position in Danish politics or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132509	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132511	Yes, it has. It has something to do with the Conservative People's Party coming into government, and when we entered government, we also got an agreement that we should spend more money on defence. That is what we are debating at the moment and, on the basis of the reports that have come from all defence-friendly parties, we have reasonable faith that we will have a boost to the defence economy. The reason why we couldn't be in the battle airplane agreement was that the battle aircraft purchase put a very large bill on the defense table, approx. 56 billion kr., over a period of 30 years, and that's a lot of money at the end of the month, and it's also a lot of money for the defense if you don't add more money. That is why we did not think it was responsible to implement the motion for a resolution without adding more money to the defence. That is what is now happening, and we also believe that it is responsible to carry out the purchase of the fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132559	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Rasmus Jarlov There's another round). Yeah. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132610	Thank you for admitting that this is solely due to the fact that one has come into government. After all, that's interesting. As far as I remember the Conservative People's Party, it also had something to do with pilots' working hours. In order to make this equation work together, everything that could be twisted in defence has simply been wrung to great anger for defence organizations, because one could see that one had to run faster, one had to run longer, one had to work more, one got much worse conditions. And if there is something the Conservatives are concerned with, it is being good friends with defence organisations. We think that is a good thing, and so are we, but in this case I just have to say that the Conservatives have run away from what they said at the time about working hours, about the way pilots have to work, pay, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132702	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132703	That's not true. We stand entirely by the criticism that we made 11⁄2 years ago when the agreement was concluded, also the part that concerns the working hours of the pilots. That is also why I said to Mrs Flyvholm earlier that I am not sure that we will get the number of flying hours out of these just 27 planes that the government thinks we will get. But again, even though we maintain the criticism that we may get a number of flight hours as it is pretended, that is not an argument against buying the 27 aircraft. That is an argument for us to buy more aircraft, but it would also be an argument for us to have to allocate more money if we were to do so. There is nothing about buying more aircraft if no money is set aside for it, because then it will only bring savings in the rest of the defence. So we think it is good to buy 27 aircraft, but we would have liked to see even more money set aside so that we could buy more aircraft, but this is certainly a good decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132756	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132757	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov to be actually so honest to say on the platform that the rapporteur does not necessarily believe that the number of flying hours lasts. And what I should just like to remind you of is that this motion for a resolution is, after all, a motion for a resolution to withdraw the act of the Committee on Finance. That, among other things. It was precisely on the platform that the whole basis for the calculation made and presented to the Committee on Finance was uncertain, including, among other things, that it was not possible to find a solution to the problem. the number of hours spent by the rapporteur himself. And that is what I find very, very problematic here, that is to say that we are in the process of adopting the purchase of fighter aircraft based on a very uncertain calculation. Does the rapporteur not agree that there is a lack of a proper, well worked-out basis for really deciding what we are going to have to pay for these fighters?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132851	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132853	No, I don't agree with that. In relation to the economy, which is what has to be considered in the Committee on Finance, I have not encountered any objections which lead me to believe that there are incorrect estimates on the basis of which the decision is based. Flight hours are one thing; that is how much capacity we get. However, in relation to the economy, which is what this is all about in relation to the Financial Committee, there is of course uncertainty, but I think that the calculations that are now being made seem fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132920	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132922	I guess I'll have more of a comment then. Then I would like to remind the rapporteur of the extremely high level of criticism from the Reichsaudit in relation to the lack of proper, well-worked material that we can take a position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132933	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132934	So that is not the criticism that the National Audit Office has made. If you read it carefully, you can see that the Reichsaudit confirms that there is in fact a very, very thorough work behind this, incredibly thorough even, a very thorough work. But there are some uncertainties about e.g.: flying hours, but that is not the same as saying that it is not thoroughly worked out. It really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132955	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212132959	Thank you. The reason I am taking the floor is because I was surprised that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov actually praised the F-16 plane. Is it I who remember wrong, or was it the case, that when the F-16 plane was introduced, there were quite serious problems, and many pilots lost their lives, first and foremost in Germany, many more than have died in wars with anyone because the planes just wooed down? Then another thing: I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, about Mr. Rasmus Jarlov considers that it is all right that correct information was not given on questions from the Defence Committee, among others. from Mrs Eva Flyvholm before the decision was taken? Is it not a scandal that this decision has been taken while incorrect information was on the table? It should, of course, be something for the Bureau to go into. After all, it is absolutely scandalous that we should give the wrong information before making a decision of so many billions of dollars, and only after the decision has been taken will the correct information be put on the table. Is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov does not agree that this is a scandal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133105	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133106	As I recall, the Enhedslisten also has a member of the Bureau. There you can take it up if you think it is a matter for the Bureau. This is not something I have the opportunity to do myself. But, of course, I do not think it is right that incorrect information has been given to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. The Secretary of Defense doesn't think so, and he's been out to regret it. I don't know what else to say about it. However, there can be no two opinions that, of course, it should be the case that Members of Parliament are given the right information, including in the first attempt. It is true that there were some challenges with the F-16s. Some of them fell down. I think that's how high-tech projects will be. There are some childhood diseases, and there will be F-35. This will also be seen in the coming year, and then the opponents of the aircraft purchase will have a big party. Whenever problems arise, they can go out and say: What did we say? Look, there's a lot of trouble. But I have to say, we live with that. We live by the fact that in high-tech projects there are children's diseases. I think we're gonna beat them, too. I would also like to apologize to the Danish Parliament for taking so much time. I didn't anticipate this shower of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133214	You don't have to apologize for that. That's what we're for. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133219	May I express my agreement with the President in his last remark. I just want to say that there is something wrong with the procedure here. A parliamentarian does his job and asks some very relevant questions. The MP gets so crowded with what should we call it? Then you make a decision on the basis of the untruths, and then the Secretary of Defense quite rightly goes out and regrets. Is that the way the Folketing wants to work? Is that how we're gonna work? First, you lie to the Folketing and make decisions, and then you regret. That alone is a reason for taking back that act from the Finance Committee and reviewing the whole process again, including, for example: to find out if other wrong answers have been given. And then it may be when you come to the conclusion that it is not there that you can conclude something. But this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Rasmus Jarlov can't I just answer?). Yes, the rapporteur is free to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133323	Well, there aren't two views on whether members of parliament should have correct information. They have to. I don't know what else to say about that. This is, of course, extremely important, and I hope that the whole parliament will stick to that. I also know that this is, of course, the intention of the government. Why this hasn't been given, I don't know. If we stopped the decision now, it would be for us. The consequences for the Danish air force, for the defence, for the defence of Denmark and for our contribution to NATO would be very serious, because that would mean that we would be without fighters for a number of years. There's something bigger at stake than just what we think is nice here in the Folketing. This is an important decision for the Air Force.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133413	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then we have a privateist. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133423	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov for going to the platform. You might have expected the parties behind this at least to send a rapporteur to explain why you are going to vote against this and vote in favour of it in the Committee on Finance. This discussion isn't really about whether you're for or against the purchase of fighter planes. It is about managing the Danes' money with respect and properness. This is something that lasts 30 years in the future and that will have an impact on future generations; it is the largest single purchase and, in relation to the information we have received, it can fluctuate by 30 billion. kr. It is simply not fair that you do not want to take it back and look at it again. The process has been a scandal, and now, as we do, the Folketing has delegated the task of turning the thumb up or down to the Finance Committee. The rapporteurs for the governing parties, Radicals, Social Democrats and DF will have to come up and look the Danes in the eye and explain why they want to have to spend their money in this way. This isn't about for or against fighter planes. It is a matter of respect for the fact that the processes have to be in order and that we do not have to go back again and again in the future to the Committee on Finance and ask for more money. This is something we are discussing right now in connection with, among other things. IT projects and buildings but on a much smaller economic scale. This is a gigantic amount. The parties behind this agreement would like to put the preacher financially responsible for themselves. This is going to be the biggest single economic irresponsible decision that is being made, because it is being made on such a bad basis and on false information. You will at least have to stand on the platform and say why you say yes to this, instead of withdrawing the agreement and doing a proper job and then saying yes to the fighter planes for which a majority decides.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133627	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133629	I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not also be very reasonable and great if the Minister for Defence would come up and explain the criticism that has come from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133642	I fully agree with that. That would be perfectly reasonable. But the minister is busy with other things. This is the biggest single purchase. It has been decided that it could cost 87 billion. kr. If you say that you look after the Danes' money and manage it properly, regardless of the political differences that we can have, you must at least come up and respond to the criticisms that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then no one else wants to speak. That is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133722	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133759	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133816	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133831	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133850	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133907	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133926	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of ALT)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212133946	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134006	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134024	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134050	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134151	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134208	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. 4 and 5, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF), on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134248	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134305	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 80 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134347	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134413	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134452	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134509	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134701	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Once you've finished talking, I'd like to continue from up here, but I'll wait until there's a little more quiet. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134826	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134842	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-25, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now there must be more quiet in the Chamber, because there are not so many left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134905	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134924	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212134939	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135008	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135035	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135105	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135124	Thank you. I would like to ask that we send the legislative proposal back to committee because I would like to have a supplementary report reprinted. This is done on the basis of a content in a letter sent by the Minister of Justice yesterday which I think is worth including in it. So I'm asking you to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135149	Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135153	Thank you. The reason why I am speaking here at second reading is that we were largely positive at first reading, but we have arrived at a vote against the proposal. We could vote in favour of the proposal if we wanted to follow the EU's recommendation that the Member States maintain rules or introduce rules that depart from the directive, as the Consumer Council Think has also pointed out in their consultation response. I think it is a pity that the Minister is not taking advantage of these options, as they would have just helped to increase consumer protection for Danish consumers. Total harmonisation makes the Package Travel Directive a minimum directive that runs the risk of lowering the standards for consumers in the EU Member States with higher consumer safety than the new directive prescribes. At the same time, it will be impossible to raise standards, as the directive is a total harmonisation and is therefore almost impossible to change. The new directive prevents us from introducing new national rules. It may therefore be that the legal certainty of Danish consumers does not deteriorate, but we cannot introduce new national rules if we discover gaps in the legislation. Then it needs to be changed at an EU level. So it's gonna be a no for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135317	Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135319	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. Then it has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135338	Anybody want to make a statement? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135354	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the proposal should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135409	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135439	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135450	The bill here stems from a case from Copenhagen, where some young people committed a quite unreasonable and very, very gross assault on innocents during Christmas 2014. I think it's a case most of us remember. In particular, I think we can remember the victims, especially the woman Nanna, who was exposed to the absolutely unforgivable. While the case was being investigated, one of the suspected perpetrators was in custody in his own home after both Copenhagen City Court and the Court agreed to the model, which was initially to be regarded as an attempt. The other suspected perpetrators were judged not to fit that model, as it requires strong parental resources and, above all, that it is the first time that crime has been committed. And then we are getting to know what this bill is all about, namely that the courts today can decide that detention should take place in so-called surrogate. Surrogate detention can take place in a secure youth institution, and as an attempt it has occurred in four cases that surrogate detention of young people has taken place in their own homes. In the City of Copenhagen they have applied to use the model in 11 cases, but it is only approved in 4 because it is the case that there has to be a judge over. And that is what the Minister wants illegal, not that there should be a judge, but that you can at all surrogate in your own home. The Minister justifies his proposal by stating that it is offensive that, shortly after the crime has been committed, injured persons may face a surrogate prison, or a defendant as it is, on the streets of the local area. I have to stop here because it is not exactly the case that you can meet the surrogate incarcerated on the street. On the contrary, young people are either in a youth institution or in these very few cases at home, i.e. in prison at home. In the social democracy, we are concerned that young people who have committed crime should get out of the criminal course as soon as possible. Youths in custody in a traditional detention facility point to all research that it does not have a positive effect on the young person becoming less criminal, actually on the contrary. The friends that young people get and the lack of access to resources that can pull young people out of crime do not ultimately have a positive effect on getting young people out of crime. Then we're at the Justice Argument. We must never forget this, but we must bear in mind that this proposal is not about whether the young person is convicted or not, and so it is not about whether the young person is going to serve a real sentence or not, but about what happens before the case is brought to trial, that is, before the case is brought to trial. In the Social Democratic Party we are not going to support the proposal here, because we believe that the courts are good enough to assess whether it is fair and whether it makes sense that young first-time criminals are in custody in their own homes, especially considering that it is rejected in far more cases than this model is approved. What we want instead to encourage is to look at the times of the proceedings. One of the problems here is that it takes a long time for the offence to be committed, including serious offences, and until it comes before a court of law. If we reduce the processing time, we will not be faced with the problem which is actually the cause of the proposal that we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135838	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212135844	Thank you. The aim of the proposal here is to abolish the possibility of surrogate prisons in their own homes in cases of serious perilous crime. I would like to start by saying that this is a very, very good proposal. After all, the individual case referred to by the previous rapporteur in his speech, which I shall avoid mentioning too much again, shows a completely inconsistent system when it comes to this type of case, a system which takes much more account of the person or persons who have been in custody and very little consideration for the victims who are left and who have been subjected to a serious, serious offence. That is why, of course, we need to act, and that is why we need to change the rules. I am pleased that the government has put forward a legislative proposal on this. There are a number of weaknesses if the current system is maintained, for example. with regard to the fact that the victim may meet the perpetrator, or the possibility that the victim may be contacted by the person or persons in custody in this way, and obviously we cannot be served with that at all. So we are pleased that it is changed and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140004	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140018	Thank you. If you are suspected of a crime, there is a possibility that you may be in custody. It requires either a reasonable suspicion or a particularly strong suspicion. It appears from Section 762 of the Code of Procedure. I shall not go into the details of the rules. What we are talking about here is what is called surrogate prison, in other words, it follows from section 765 that the court must seek other options if less opportunities can be used. For example, he may deposit his passport instead of being in custody; he may make sure that he or she does not make sure it is used in practice, but the law provides that he or she is able to avoid being in custody. It may also be that you have to be placed in an institution or at home. That is then the exception that the Minister of Justice and the government will take out of the provision. This can of course be a matter of concern, because we must always remember that we have to spend the least possible money on people who, of course, per year. definition is legally innocent as here, yet suspected, either justified or particularly supported suspect for a crime. If the Left supports the motion here, then that is due, among other things, to. the fact that the Minister's proposal relates exclusively to serious personal criminal offences. In other words, we are restricting it to situations where, for example, serious violence has taken place. It may also be a series of other crimes that fall into the hands of perilous crime, but it cannot be fair for anyone who has been malted on the street on Saturdays to be able to meet his perpetrator on Mondays because he has been imprisoned in surrogate in his own home. For it is therefore the case that you are imprisoned in surrogate in your own home, yes, as a starting point, conditions are laid down as to how to attend to your schooling and, moreover, you can walk on the street in a wide range of situations, as laid down in terms of conditions. And there it is, therefore, that we find it quite unreasonable that this provision should be applicable in the case of serious personal criminality. This is quite a small number of cases a year, but of course it does not change the need for legal certainty to be in order. We think that a fine limitation has been found here when the wording of the amendment is now grossly perilous crime. So the Left can largely support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140326	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140333	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am really sorry that this bill has been tabled. As the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has said, a concrete assessment of the suitability of the individual is being made of the courts. And we know from research that this is a very good idea because the young person is not taken out of school and so on. And some of what I find so difficult to understand in relation to both the rapporteur from the Left and the Minister for Justice is when they say that this is to take account of the victim. I don't think anyone in here would want to take the victim into account. But where is the concern for the next victim that is being abused because the young person is continuing his or her career and because we are not taking preventive measures to ensure that the young person does not go out and make new crimes? Where is the consideration when we know that these specific situations in which a judge is present and says that here it will have an effect that the young person will be surrogate in custody in his own home so that he or she can continue his schooling? It will have a preventive effect so that they do not go out and commit new crime. Where's the consideration for the next victim in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140450	Thank you. What is being asked is, of course, the question of whether or not we are basically getting better or worse by being in prison. And there I have to say that I really recognise that no one has improved by having been in prison. However, when we are imprisoned, it is for a number of other reasons. It is for special preventive and general preventive reasons, but it is also for the sake of the victim. So this is and remains a balance in these situations, and I can well follow the questioner's observation that it is no longer possible to be in custody in one's own home, but to sit in a closed, secure institution. But it is essentially a balancing of the relationship with the victim who has been malted Saturday evening with a bicycle chain. I don't want him to meet the suspect on the street on Mondays. It is as simple as that and then the questioner can be pleased that we are talking about very, very few cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140558	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur failed to answer my question. Because what I was asking about were the next victims that we can foresee with great certainty, because we know that when it comes to very young people there are so-called children here, there is nothing to suggest that they stop the crime of being held in a secure ward. On the other hand, there is something that suggests that they stop their course of crime when they can be held in their own homes. So I would like the rapporteurs to take a position on the subsequent victim and victim, and so on, which this bill calls for us not to put an end to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140651	As the rapporteur suggests, things are not going that wrong either. But I understand that what the rapporteur is asking for or referring to is that one does not become a better and less criminal person by ending up in an institution compared to sitting at home. And I think that is quite correct, so let me just agree with the rapporteur. But I can only repeat that this is a balance. It is therefore basically unhappy situations that we are talking about, and the Left therefore believes that when it comes to serious personal crime, the balance weighs in favour of the victim, if I may use that expression. So we are abolishing the possibility of being in custody in the home.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140730	There is one more brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140734	It is mentioned that in very few cases surrogate detention has been used in their own homes. Did Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140754	Then I almost have to ask the questioner to define the word 'insight', but if the questioner thinks that I have read the individual arrest orders, then the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140805	Then I can use the word 'knowledge', but I must confess that I have no knowledge of them either. But I think it might be really interesting to examine it and it is then more a comment than a question so we know what kind of circumstances may be used. This could, of course, slightly nuance the proposal and, as such, the opposition to the proposal. So I don't have any questions anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140823	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and we proceed to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212140838	Thank you. This proposal, as others have said, is, of course, about the elimination of the possibility of surrogate detention in your own home when the charge concerns serious personal crime. And, of course, we must combat crime, we must prevent crime and we must take the side of the victims and, as I have stood and argued on behalf of the Enhedslisten many times down here in this Chamber and on this platform, the best way to take the side of the victims is to conduct a legal policy which works and which means that there is a preventive effect of the measures we adopt; and to ensure that with the things we do in here, we create fewer victims in the future. It strengthens my sense of justice. It strengthens the sense of justice of the Enhedslisten that we are pursuing a sensible policy that creates less crime, which creates fewer victims. A large number of critical consultation responses have been received to the draft law. I will start with the Institute of Human Rights, which states that the bill will mean that the courts will be completely cut off from the possibility of assessing in concrete terms whether the child's personal circumstances, including the child's best, suggest that the detention should take place in a surrogate in his own home or not. The Lawyers' Board states that it is a matter of legal certainty to completely cut off the right of the courts to exceptionally decide on surrogate detention in cases of serious personal criminality. The jurisdiction, says the Lawyer's Council, to take decisions on surrogate detention should therefore remain with the courts, since only the courts have the opportunity to decide, on the basis of an overall assessment of all the circumstances of the case, whether surrogate detention can be considered to be justified in the situation. It is also difficult, in the view of the Lawyers' Council, to take into account in advance all situations that may occur. I very much agree with that. In their response to the hearing, the Crime Prevention Council states that it is important for the courts to retain the possibility of making an overall assessment of how the purpose of detention can be achieved with the least intrusive measure. The National Defence Attorney's Association states that, in the case of detention, no decision has yet been taken on the issue of guilt and that detention is the most intrusive criminal procedure that we have in the Code of Procedure. And in the opinion of the National Association, the reasons for the bill are consistent with the fact that it is offensive, if wronged, shortly after the crime was committed, to face a surrogate prison charged on the street of the local area cannot be assumed that the basis for the detention in these cases is normally Article 762 (2) of the Code. 1, the impact risk. They also write that when the detention has taken place for the purposes of the investigation, it is illogical to use law enforcement considerations as they write to limit the scheme. The National Association further notes that in practice the bill also affects young people between 15 and 17 years of age who, because of their age, are a particularly vulnerable group; that in practice there are several examples of young people who, because of detention, lose association with the school where they may already find it difficult to keep up; and that it is neither appropriate for the young person to do so, for example. be a 9th class student aged 15 years or for society as a whole if a school course is not completed. There are many more consultation answers, and the last thing I would like to mention is from the Danish Social Advisor Association, which states that in practice the bill will put an end to young people being in custody at home, thereby limiting the possibility of a municipal effort to prevent crime. They further write that the bill will increase the risk of more young people being forced into or continuing a criminal career; and that research, among other things. In this context, it should be pointed out that, following the draft law, young people who would now be able to continue their education will at the same time be at a high risk of having to drop out of education with an increased risk of social de-route and criminal career; and that the draft law also opposes research in the field, which shows that continuous training is essential for preventing new crime. With those comments and with reference to some of the many critical consultation responses, I can say that the Enhedslisten agrees with the concerns raised and that, in this context, we cannot support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141331	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. We shall therefore proceed to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141345	Thank you. Basically, the idea of surrogate detention is a fine and progressive idea. This allows for the possibility, under certain circumstances, of being held in custody under less intrusive conditions than it is in prison. It is not always most appropriate to put young people in an ordinary prison because it can be a very violent experience that can greatly influence not least a young person. But this is a balance, because, on the other hand, detention in a proper prison must be the starting point in some of the very serious cases we have heard about. It is also necessary to take account of the victims of perilous crime and of the general sense of justice by not allowing perpetrators to be held in custody in their own homes. That is why we support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141450	Thanks to Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141506	Thank you. Today, we are the first-reader of the bill on surrogate detention and, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is a question of surrogate detention in future not being applicable when the charge concerns serious personal crime. After all, this is something that the courts can decide on today. This can be done in a secure youth institution today or in your own home. In most cases of incarceration of persons under the age of 18, the young person is sentenced as a starting point to surrogate detention in a secure youth institution, but in some cases it can be estimated that it can take place in his own home. The draft law aims to eliminate the possibility if the charge concerns serious personal crime, and that will apply regardless of the age of the accused. The draft law we are discussing concerns young people between the ages of 15 and 17. I can of course agree with the justification given by the Ministry of Justice for abolishing it, namely that it may seem offensive if wronged, shortly after the crime has been committed, may face a surrogate prison indicted on the street of the local area. This is rare, however, because what is intended is that he may be allowed to go to school and be allowed to fulfil what should be said to be normal obligations, and thus he is not intended to run around the street. However, the whole discussion we have in this Chamber is, as I see it, about whether we believe that this is preventing him from committing new, dangerous crimes or other new crimes, or whether we believe that putting him in custody is what is helping him in the future. I am quite ready to do so, and I think we could also hear from the questions I put to the rapporteur of the Left that the way to prevent new crime is to make a preventive effort to get the young person out of crime. In fact, this is also what I think is evident from the Minister for Justice's own initiative on how to combat juvenile delinquency in the future. That's where I think the Minister for Justice has a good focus... even though I would like more attention to preventive action. That's why it's so hard for me to understand that there's gonna be a bill like this that's gonna take this opportunity from the kid. I also think that we should focus on the specific victim. That goes without saying. We must do a great deal to ensure that the specific victim feels well treated and, of course, gets all the help that needs to be done, but we also need to look at the possible future victims. And there is, of course, the fact that this bill does not help any future victims, because we know that I should perhaps be careful to say that here in the Chair or can say with great probability, or at least there is research that proves that in a specific case it is said that a young person should be able to be held in custody in his own home, making him not commit crime forward-lookingly, whereas if he is imprisoned young people, then he will not stop his criminal career. It then means that there will be future victims, and that is also what I am focusing on here. So we think this is the wrong way to go. We believe that much more preventive action should be taken and this is one of them, where it is possible, by means of a specific court decision, to incarcerate the young person in his own home. We think that the courts should continue to have the opportunity to assess in concrete terms that precisely in the very specific case this would be a good idea and that it would have a preventive effect there. So in those words, the alternative cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141901	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212141909	Thank you. Others have, of course, mentioned what the proposal is about: in short, it removes the possibility of surrogate young people in their own homes in connection with accusations of serious violence. Now it is so, and it has also been said from up here that it is something that happens very rarely and after an overall assessment of all the circumstances of the case, including the young person, that is to say the child's relationship. It is therefore not the rule, but the rare exception, when surrogate detention is used in the event of serious violence, and this happens after a very specific assessment by the judge, if it considers that it is justified and that very special circumstances apply. It could, for example. be that the young person is finishing his 9th grade or may lose his apprenticeship. If someone is prevented from doing so, it can provide a much worse starting point for rehabilitation and prevention and increase the risk of new crime. It could also be that the courts consider that the young person is vulnerable and very susceptible to a harsh criminal environment. We therefore believe that it is sensible for the judge in this particular case to be able to choose surrogate detention in his own home. Here, too, we are in line with a great many consultation responses received from both the Social Pedagogues, the Danish Social Advisor Association, the National Association of Defence Attorneys, the Crime Prevention Council, the Institute of Human Rights and the Lawyers' Council, all of which recommend that the courts retain the opportunity to choose surrogate detention on the basis of a concrete assessment. So, overall, you can well hear where our conclusion is, namely that we are against the proposal. However, we think it might be interesting enough to investigate the cases that have been so far as I could understand, it was four circumstances to see what specific circumstances have led a judge to choose to use surrogate detention in his own home. It might also be interesting to see what conditions are then attached to surrogate detention. I guess there's got to be a condition that's also about where to stay. It may be that you have to go to school, but that is not to say stay on the street. Then I do not know whether such a thing as the risk of actually meeting the victim in the street picture is also part of the basis on which it is assessed. Because you can say that if the victim lives in Aarhus and you live in Copenhagen, there may not be such a risk that you meet each other if you are only allowed to go to and from school. We think that it might be very interesting to get this straight in the course of the legal proceedings. However, as a starting point, and I am also quite sure that this is where it ends, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142142	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142153	The proposal could actually seem like a good idea, for it may well be seen as a provocation, if, as the Minister writes, the wrongdoing, shortly after the crime was committed, may run the risk of meeting a surrogate prison in the street of the local area. But that is not really what is happening, because the defendant is in prison. In the vast majority of cases, surrogate detention takes place in a youth institution. In exceptional cases, the court may decide that the imprisonment of young first-time criminals can take place in this so-called surrogate prison in their own home. That has happened in four cases. But have there been problems in the four cases? Not that I know of. Then it is too loose to argue for a new law, referring to some examples that are not even supported and to some situations that probably never occurred. So what exactly is the background to this bill? Yeah, it's hanging in the dark. There may be very special cases with very special personal circumstances that argue that young people in surrogate detention serve in their own homes. SF will leave it to the courts to decide exactly as it is recommended by among others. The Lawyers' Council, the Crime Prevention Council, the Defense Attorneys and many more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142337	Thank you. This did not give rise to any brief comments either, so we shall move on to the last rapporteur, Mr President. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142347	As a citizen of Denmark, it is expected that the legal system will take account of the victim. During the reign, the government and especially Conservatives have fought to increase justice and improve victims' sense of justice in cases of serious crime. With a new witness package, the government will strengthen the security of witnesses. With the agreement on enhanced criminal justice, we are strengthening the security of the prison staff. We combine this with harsher and fairer punishments for gross violence, sexual abuse, vandalism and witness threats. 1% Of a youth year, 44 per cent are committed. of the crime of the year, of which 65 per cent are criminals. charged with serious violence. It is therefore a hard core of young people who commit most of the crime and who form the basis of a criminal career in the gangs. Of course, we cannot accept that. Young criminals must be met by rapid and consistent action by the authorities. We must be able to prevent these trends and show young people that their actions have consequences. With the action taken all actions have consequences... the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, has proposed a reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency. The focus here is on both prevention and consistency through multidisciplinary and targeted action across authorities. In addition, as a society, we also have a responsibility towards citizens who are exposed to crime. Today it is possible to be in custody in your own home when you are under 18 years old. This means that the injured person risks meeting his assailant in the neighborhood in everyday life, even though the judge has considered it appropriate to incarcerate the accused. One is that the violent person can sit in the home and enjoy himself while he is in custody, but this also means that the victim may not feel secure in his local area until the final sentence is handed down. Incarceration must measure up to the crime. We owe it to the victims to change the rules, which is why it must no longer be possible to sit in custody in your own home when you are under 18 and you are charged with serious violence. The Conservative People's Party fully supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142623	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then we've come to the raisin at the end of the sausage, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142631	Thank you. I am very pleased that the majority in this Chamber is accounting for this bill. It is, of course, the case that today the court can decide that detention should be carried out in so-called surrogate if the purpose of imprisonment can be achieved by less intrusive measures and the accused consents. It can, for example. This is the case in a secure youth institution. There are so few cases in which surrogate arrests of young people accused of serious perilous crime have occurred in their own homes. However, in the case of serious perilous crime and the grounds for detention, which is, of course, a condition for surrogate detention, it is offensive, if wronged, shortly after the crime has been committed, to run the risk of encountering a surrogate prison on the street of the local area, and it is therefore proposed that surrogate detention in cases of serious perilous crime should not take place in the home of the accused. The amendment of the law means that this kind of surrogate detention cannot be used in future when the charge concerns serious personal criminality. This will apply regardless of the age of the defendant. Surrogate detention of young people will still be possible in a secure youth institution. I very much look forward to it being approved. For me, this is not about how many cases there are, for me it is about what is right and fair, and I think this is so right and right. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your speeches and, of course, I am available for any questions that may come during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142806	There is already one question now, namely from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142810	Thank you. I would like to put the same question to the Minister for Justice that I put to the rapporteur of the Left: where is the legal certainty for the future victims against whom there is a risk that the young person will commit new crimes? Where is it about prevention, in other words, that we are precisely trying to prevent the young person from continuing to be a criminal? Where is the concern for future victims in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142838	Thank you. It didn't help anything when you walked around freely, so it didn't help anything, because there you chose to commit crime. And there I feel like it's not the way to get very dangerous, and then you have to say, "Well, I don't care that you've been beating someone with bike chains on your face; we don't give a shit about that, as long as you can keep watching your school." I mean, do you get more victims? Then you can go to a closed youth institution. Well, I just don't recognize the premise that if you don't get some soft move, you get even worse, and then it's an excuse for you to be a deep criminal. I simply do not accept that. I don't want a society like that. And I do not think it can be said that it is a question of taking account of the future victims. Because then you just assume that no matter what we do, the criminal continues unless we do nothing and the criminal can sit and enjoy himself at home. I just don't want to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212142932	Now, I think it is important to make it clear that detention takes place in such a way before one is convicted. So the Minister of Justice and I agree, I assume he hasn't been convicted yet. That's why he's going to be in custody. It's while the police are investigating the case with a view to bringing a lawsuit. The problem with the argument put forward by the Minister here is that there is a research plan to ensure that there is a greater risk of the young person committing crime again. And we must remember that we are dealing with young people; it is young people who are under 18 years of age. These are children we're dealing with. After all, I think that the Minister should be concerned about the possible future victims when there is evidence of research to say that there is a greater risk, if in custody in general prison, that the young person goes out and commits crime again. There is, of course, one consideration for the future victims to take, which I think the Minister of Justice completely disregards. Perhaps that is more of a comment on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143034	But that won't make me fail to answer. I fully agree that it is true that we have not been convicted. But it is equally true that it is a judge who has judged that you can be held in custody. And it's not like it's in an ordinary prison where these people are going to be in custody... we have to remember that too. It is young people who are accused of something very, very gross. Well, I'm just mentioning the Nanna case, because I guess it's the one we can all put pictures on here. Those young people must then be at a youth institution for a period of time. It just really offends me that you can sit in your own home and be surrogate in prison. I just can't be in it. I'm so tied up a lot against it. For me, this is about pure politics: what we think is right and fair and I think it is quite unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143129	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143130	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the last remarks. I fully agree with the Minister on that. But I have a question, because there is a great deal of discussion in this debate about prevention, and it has actually puzzled me from the point of view of the proposal that this should be the major topic of debate. But let us continue with prevention. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that it could also be preventative in relation to the potential loss that could be of confidence in our rule of law, with the proposal we are implementing now, in other words from the point of view of the victims. Surely it must be deeply, deeply unsatisfactory to be in a situation where you are exposed to serious personal crime and then people can sit in their own homes playing Playstation or do whatever they want or that you can meet them on the street. I just want to say that it must not be very conducive to the confidence that must be in our rule of law. So does the Minister not agree that this is a very preventive element?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143227	I think that is an incredibly correct point of view, which has touched a lot, and now I mentioned a particular matter before. That is, I think, the kind of thing that upsets the support that exists for the way in which we have a legal system. Because I think it's very difficult for most people to understand that you can sit surrogate prison in your own home, in your own room, in some very, very rough cases. I'd like to remind you of something again. It's like somebody thinks I'm gonna sit here and be a judge. I don't have to. After all, it is precisely a judge who decides whether to incarcerate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143305	Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143306	I welcome the Minister for Justice's comments again. I just want to ask if the Minister thinks we're done with this area. Well, is there anything else we need to do in this particular area if it's up to the government? Furthermore, I would just like to say that the Minister for Justice should not be discouraged by the rhetoric in this Chamber, because we would like to make available our 37 mandates so that we can continue the important work that is going on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143334	I am very pleased about that, and I look forward to it continuing. Now, after all, we have agreed on a financial law in which we punish gross violence harder, and I hope there will be a great deal of support for that in this Chamber too. I think we should keep an eye on it and see if it is fair. Because I believe that what is absolutely essential and important for the support of our legal society and our legal policy is, of course, that the people can also see a right and fairness in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143401	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143403	In the material we have received in connection with the first reading of this bill, we have been informed that there have been four cases since 2014 where there has been this surrogate detention in our own home. What I would then like to ask the Minister for Justice is whether, among the four cases, there have been some circumstances in which the courts have taken a concrete position on this. After all, it's four cases that show that this is something that is being used extremely rarely. But is it on the basis of the four cases or a knowledge of the four cases that the Minister of Justice has, as it were, thought that that is why this bill is needed, that is to say, some specific matters and circumstances in the four individual cases which are the basis for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143452	I haven't been hiding that from you honestly, I have to say here that what hit my head on the nail was that so-called Nannasag, and that's why I'm just feeling that way. I also believe that we can have many approaches to this. I am just generally opposed to this being possible in these special cases of serious personal crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143516	Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143517	We all want to fight serious personal crime hard and fervently, but as Mrs Josephine Fock has also mentioned sometimes in the course of this debate, it is of course about how we fight crime so that we do not have any more victims in the future. Does the Minister for Justice not agree that there is massive research evidence and experience that precisely keeping young people in education or jobs is essential for them not to fall back in relation to committing new crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143551	Yeah, but if there's no more cases, I guess it's limited how much effect it's gonna have. I just feel that there is a consideration above it and therefore I simply cannot see myself in having to stand up for the fact that in cases of serious personal crime one can sit in one's own room. I can't have it at all, and that's why this bill is important to me, although it's a few cases. I recognize that, and these few cases, what should we say, can be used to discuss this with each other. But I just think it's important that you can't do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143623	There is just one more that would like a brief comment. This is Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143626	The first thing I want to hear from the Minister, I think, is that he will be positive about, namely that we are just examining the four cases that have taken place so that we know what conditions have been established. The second point is the argument not to meet the perpetrator on the street. I'm just thinking that we already have a form of punishment called an anklet service. It is also given in the event of violence. Now I do not have a complete grasp of the penalties, as I understand it, whether this is also a case of gross violence or whether there is a overlap here. Can the Minister tell me whether there are any grey areas here or whether we might be able to get help to investigate it? Because you can say that it is at least a rather strange argument that you will not surrogate if you end up having an ankle bracelet afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143714-2	Now the bill is aimed at preventing the victim of serious personal crime, shortly after the crime has been committed, from meeting him. If it happens Saturday and the victim meets him on Tuesday on the street in the local area I think that is a different situation than if the victim at a later stage, according to the circumstances, may face a person serving at his place of residence. Then there is also the difference that serving at home is done under intensive surveillance and control by electronic anklet. It is quite good that this question is being asked, because I think we should also look a little more at those who are serving with an anklet today. Is there anyone who is serving there who should actually be in prison instead? I think that was a good proposal that Mrs Zenia Stampe made, which we need to look at more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143806	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143807	Yes, or vice versa: You could also see if any of those who serve in prison could perhaps profitably serve with an ankle bracelet. But another thing I think we might also use the opportunity to look at is the conditions for surrogate detention. How tight are they? When the Minister says that it is something quite different about serving with ankle bracelets, because there is very tough control and so on, it was also a way to go. If you are afraid that the surrogate will meet the victim on the road, then perhaps you should look at the terms and the controls that are being carried out by the surrogate prisoners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143837	We can discuss that, but when it comes to cases of serious personal crime, they should not be able to be in their own homes at all. Otherwise, I would like to discuss the other aspects of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143848	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143858	The debate is open, and Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat, is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212143908	The proposal here contains two parts. First of all, we are talking about increased punishment for deception, and secondly, we are talking about the punishment for what we popularly call revenge porn. As far as the first point is concerned, the discussion about whether we have a proportionate level of punishment for incompetence arises from a case from Vordingborg, where two 12-year-old girls were exposed to a flasher, and it was recorded on a camera from a local store. One of the girls' mother chose to publish the pictures, and absurdly the mother was initially fined 5,000 kroner, while the naked man was fined 2,500 DKK. Afterwards, the mother was acquitted, since she hadn't made the footage here. It opens up a discussion about the sharing of images that we have previously dealt with in the Folketing, i.e. the publishing of images of perpetrators, and it also opens up the discussion about whether there is a reasonableness and a proportionate penalty for blaming. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is quite reasonable to raise the level of fines for deception. I have been back looking at a number of old cases, and here the level of fines is low in relation to the nature of the infringement and also in relation to the penalty for other types of wrongdoing, which one must say seems milder, where this sharing of images versus being flashes is a good example. That is why we can support the part that is about doubling the level of punishment compared to today. In practice, this will mean that most people will be fined 5,000 kroner. instead of $2,500, and we think that's fair. The second part of the proposal is about what we normally call revenge porn. In the legal sense, the digital sex abuse is mentioned in the form of sharing images or videos with a sexual or pornographic content without consent. Unfortunately, we have seen a large increase in recent years. Young women and men are subjected to violations that not only hurt here and now but remain a heavy burden for many years, as the Internet does not forget, and the Internet can reach incredibly far around in a very short time. The legislation is today designed for analog times, when you took a picture with a camera and got them produced by the local photo dealer, and already here there was a quite large barrier to standing face to face with the photo dealer who was supposed to produce these photos, and then you had to bike or drive around and manually hang up the pictures or maybe try to have them in a magazine. Times are different today. It only takes a few clicks, and then the pictures are taken and scattered all over the world, and if you've met the victims of these wrongdoings, you know how deeply, deeply damaging it is. Psychologically, it is a huge burden, not just here and now, but many years into the future. The Minister, with the bill here, will sharpen the penalty for violation of Article 264d of the Criminal Code, so that the penalty will be up to 2 years for digital violations when the offence has been committed under particularly aggravating circumstances. Here we have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party actually believe that the Minister does not go far enough, because when we talk in the same legislative proposal about proportionality, we believe that revenge porn should be equated with simple physical violence, and here is the penalty of three years. So we are going to table an amendment to that effect. It is again this with proportionality and what other types of wrongdoing it can be compared to, and we believe that it is comparable to simple physical violence. You can even argue that the bruises go away, but it does not do so when you expose other people to the sharing of images, because then the marks do not just disappear, but hang on for many, many years to come. Then we also miss the fact that we are having a thorough discussion of aid for the victims, because it is simply not good enough today. We must both ensure that the police have the resources and competences necessary to deal with matters, and here we would like the Social Democrats to see us move matters from local police circles to a central unit which had more staffing powers to raise this type of case, and we would also like social and psychological efforts aimed at the victims to be better done. This may be something we can take in a discussion other than this one, which is about legislation, but at least we think it is important to address the two things. With those words, I must say that we can support the proposal, but we will be tabling an amendment to increase the penalty to up to three years on the part relating to the punishment of revenge pornography.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212144358	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212144408	The proposal here actually contains two proposals. The first is that the level of fines will be doubled in cases where there has been leniency. We think that is a very good start. We can, of course, start from one of the individual cases which really caused the debate on this level of fines, the level of penalties, to flare up. It was a case in which a mother of a child who had been exposed to a flasher left a picture of the naked person on the social media. And as I remember, the mother was fined 5,000 kroner, while the naked man was fined 2,500 kroner. So it was a more severe punishment to the mother than to the naked man. So many of us had very, very difficult to understand. These are, of course, two different things, but I still find it incredibly thought-provoking. We are pleased that it is now being proposed that a higher fine should be imposed for exposing oneself, and we are also pleased that, under aggravating circumstances, we can see a fine level of up to DKK 7,500. We think that's fine. But that is not quite enough, because if you expose yourself, especially if you expose yourself to children, we have to assume that there is something between the ears of the person who does not work, and then we also have to look at treatment options, and whether we can do something to get people to stop it, so that there are no more children who have to face it. So we are going to table an amendment which says that, alongside the penalty imposed, we must also be treated so that we can ensure that the same flashes do not appear many times with children. We're not gonna stand for that. The proposal, like the other one, will also tighten up the penalties for digital sexual abuse and provide for a two-year penalty framework, with a framework of 1⁄2 years at present. This is, of course, a good step in the right direction. We ourselves had made a rather higher offer of what the penalty could be, because we also see some very organized cases where people almost make websites and collect these pictures to share them with others. We do not think that is appropriate in any way whatsoever. That is why we could easily see that there was a much higher penalty than the two-year deadline, so that we really had the opportunity to get the collar of those who are doing this very organized. That is why I can also say that if the Social Democrats table amendments to impose the three-year penalty, we would like to support it. We could also imagine going up to three years, but we can talk about this in the Legal Affairs Committee afterwards. But that does not stop, of course, because the individual cases that have been brought forward also reveal weaknesses in our system. They reveal weaknesses in how the police handle matters and in how we should do this better, so there is a similar service across the country. At the same time, of course, it is also about a change of mentality in our society, because something is quite wrong if you think that you can expose other people to something so devastating. We support the proposal, of course, but we also expect that during the committee procedure we will explore it very carefully in order to table one or perhaps more amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212144732	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212144741	Thank you. One of the elements of the proposal that we are considering today is an amendment to section 232 of the Criminal Code. The penalty for the debriefing is currently DKK 2,500, and it is proposed for first-time infringement set up to DKK 5,000. Part of the reason why we are dealing with this element today is certainly the situation which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, where a mother, I think, put a picture of the naked person on the social media and was fined at least twice as large as I remember. Of course, it should not be forgotten here that these are two quite incomparable crimes; one is a personal data breach concerning publication on the Internet, and the other is a violation of the criminal law's nakedness clause. But having said that, I understand that people are shaking their heads, because you can't help comparing these two penalties; one surpasses the fact that I was just saying the victim was the mother, and the other surpasses the perpetrator. At least a great deal is being corrected here by doubling the penalty for deception. In normal circumstances, if you can even use that expression in the first case, it increases from DKK 2,500. $5,000. By its very nature, we fully agree with this. The second part of the proposal is the amendment of Article 264d of the Penal Code on what is popularly said is called hate porn or with a different term digital sexual abuse. There is no doubt at all, as the Social Democrat rapporteur has also pointed out, that this has not just come to stay, but that it is in a, unfortunately, tremendous development in the wrong direction. Worst of all, it is with the kind of hate porn that plays out when you make files at educational institutions and other places where you obviously have nothing else to do, over naked pictures of various other fellow students and the like. To put it mildly, it doesn't belong anywhere. It's something that's published online. We all know that it is almost impossible to have it removed from the network; it is published all over the world. There are some victims who get some scars on the soul that they never, ever get rid of. Against this background, it is highly relevant that we get it up here in the Folketing, and also that we increase the penalty. Then I can hear from the previous speakers that there are different views as to where the punishment should be and precisely not the level of punishment. Here the Minister for Justice proposes that it should be increased from the present 1⁄2 years to 2 years in prison. However, I would like to say a word of greeting. I am not as interested in the penalty itself as I am interested in what the penalty is actually normal. I hope that once again we will be able to discuss here in the Folketing the relationship between the penalty and the penalty framework. Well, I'm sorry, you take care of your head every now and then and ask what happens when a person has been totally malted, and the courts will then be able to use the penalty by 25%. Or something like that. Well, I ask myself what more needs to be done before you get to the higher layers. But it was now more of a general consideration. In this situation, the penalty is going to increase at least to two years. We fully agree with that. We therefore hope that the courts will take advantage of it, because these are the more serious cases we are talking about. It is where there are scars on the soul, which are far, far worse than scars on the body. The Left fully supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145151	This bill contains two parts. The first is about defamation of infidelity in the form of nakedness, which, as several others have mentioned, can be a very insulting experience for the wrongdoer; especially children. And the government then believes that the current level of fines is too low. Maybe it is not the Ministry of Justice who means it, which one has the habit of writing in these bills, and here I would like to say that I really think it is a bad thing to write that way. Well, it is not the Ministry of Justice that considers that the current level of fines is too low. It's the Minister of Justice, after all, because the Ministry of Justice is the Minister's device. I think it's such a strange thing you see in this area, so that the Ministry addresses itself directly to the Folketing in this way. It may be a detail, though, but it is still a matter of principle. However, the government considers that the level of fines is too low and the Enhedslisten is also in favour of looking at raising the level of fines, and we are thus in favour of that part of the proposal. In this context, however, I think it is also important to state exactly what the Crime Prevention Council says in their hearing response, namely that the tightening of the penalty for deception will not have a preventive effect or will cause victims to feel that justice has been restored to a greater extent. The Crime Prevention Council points out that instead of using so-called restorative justice as a supplement in cases of infidelity violations, it could be considered so that the perpetrator, through inclusive and cooperative processes, takes responsibility for the violation caused by the person concerned. In this context, the Crime Prevention Council points out that studies show that such processes have a positive crime prevention effect and that the risk of recurrence, i.e. relapse into crime, is therefore reduced. That is true, so we support raising the level of fines, and that is in line with what other rapporteurs have said. However, I think we should also be aware that if we are to do something that really works, there are, in fact, other things to do in the wake of what the Crime Prevention Council writes. The second part of the bill is about digital sexual abuse in the form of sharing images or videos with a sexual or pornographic content without the consent of the depicted. Of course, it also constitutes a serious violation of privacy, and it is often a serious violation of women's rights. It can leave the victim in a very unpleasant situation, and it can cause scars on the soul and in fact also lasting but. There are several cases of this, as one among others. has been able to follow in the press. It has to be said that we are dealing here with an area in which the gravity of the crime has deteriorated as technology develops. And this is also a legislative proposal which follows on from a thorough work that has been done in the Criminal Code Council, and in the Enhedslisten we are therefore also in favour of that part of the proposal. It can be said that even with the current penal framework, it would probably also be sufficient if it were the case that the police had raised more cases. So if the young men, as is often the case, who share such pictures and put them in folders, understood that the risk of discovery was so real that they would actually be convicted when cases were brought, then those people would understand that women's rights should be respected and that privacy should be respected. And if, even with the existing criminal framework, we had many more cases raised and people convicted and were allowed perhaps to spend some time in an open prison with 39 others, where there is only one prisoner for the 40 in a total open prison, then, after a lot of sentences in that area, we would probably have a situation where more people would realise that it is seriously serious that the law should be respected and that women's rights and privacy should be respected. So from Enhedslisten's side, it's more about getting the police to take these cases even more seriously, so some cases are being brought up and we're getting some sentences, so it's being announced to everyone in this country who might be able to share these kind of pictures, that it's beating up illegal what they're doing. I have one thing I would like to ask the Minister for Justice. First Vice-President If this is a quick question, go ahead). It is that there is a part of the bill in which it is so that the government in the way it is made does not want to change the content of the criminal offence in Section 264d of the Criminal Code, so that nude images of persons who are found on, for example. A deserted beach must be included in this. I would like to ask the Minister this, because it cannot be right that pictures taken on a deserted beach, for example. one boyfriend of the other boyfriend, may subsequently be used as revenge porn without being convicted of it. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145737	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145745	Thank you. There are already several rapporteurs who have mentioned cases in which, not least, the lives of young women are profoundly affected, perhaps even destroyed, because some images they have shared in confidence with someone they trusted are suddenly being spread all sorts of places where they should not be worst and most irreparable, of course, if it happens on the web that the pictures are put to public view there. It is hard to imagine how unpleasantly negative it can affect a human being and, of course, not least a younger person who is at a more vulnerable and uncertain age than so many other age groups. This is something that we, as a society, must combat, and that is why the government presented an initiative earlier this year to combat this very phenomenon. In addition to a prevention section, the proposal also contains the punishment that we are dealing with today. We are raising the penalty for the most serious cases of digital sexual abuse, and thus, of course, we are also saying clearly and clearly that this is wrong and that we must think so carefully that we do not share private images without the consent of the sender. Then we will also sharpen the penalty for blaming others, including nakedness. It can be very insulting to be subjected to blundering and, of course, it must be punished proportionately. All in all, then, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which indicates that as a society we cannot accept that people are subjected to sexual abuse, either in the virtual or in the real world. This is, of course, a proposal supported by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145950	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212145957	Thank you. The legislative proposal we have to deal with today is both about tightening up the penalties for blaming and tightening up the penalties for digital sexual abuse. The bill has two parts. In the first part on malice violations, the penalty will be tightened up and a further penalty cut at the level of fines for child abuse will be imposed, and stricter penalties for digital sexual abuse will be introduced. In the first part, we are positive in the alternative, but we are still of the opinion that it may not be what helps. But what we attach importance to is the various consultation responses, which include: points out that victims find it difficult to understand that these are fines at such low levels as they are today. That is why we can support the lifting of the fine. However, I think it is worth noting, as I also think a former rapporteur did, the reply from the Crime Prevention Council, which would like to see further work being done on what is called remedial justice, in other words how to restore the damage caused by violating others. It is through inclusive and cooperative processes that you have to take responsibility for the violation that you have caused. The reason why I am pointing this out is that you can see that it has a positive crime prevention effect and that it reduces the risk of relapse. Because there should be no doubt that uncovering oneself, among other things. against a child can have a very large and violent negative effect on the child concerned. That is why we would like to see the more preventive measures taken to prevent this happening. Anyway, we can back the first part of the bill. The second part of the bill is about digital sexual abuse. We know that this is something that has come with the net; it is some of the things that are happening at the moment. We can see that, among other things. share nude images. Sharing naked pictures on the Internet is very insulting. They lie there forever, and so it is very personal incriminating. That is why we can fully support the Justice Minister's proposals, including with regard to this part, and, overall, we therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150301	Thank you. We can support both parts of the proposal, both the part that concerns raising the level of fines for maladministration, and the other, which we particularly welcome, not least because it is based, for once, on a thorough preparatory work by the Criminal Law Council. This is how we would like punishments to always take place, so that this is done on the basis of thorough treatment. We support that. But what we really think is most important and also more important than the criminal framework itself is the action of the police and the prosecution. It is described in the consultation answer, and we really think that is what it is primarily necessary to tackle this problem. It is, of course, as was also said by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, the risk of discovery and the fact that some cases are simply being brought in I do not think it is so crucial whether it is 1⁄2 years or 2 years or what it is that some people are being punished and it is rumored in the environment and that a level of punishment is being found. Frankly, I think that's what it takes. However, we can support both parts of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150410	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150421	Sexual offences committed by a flasher must be punished with a fine that can be felt. In many cases, too, treatment of the perpetrator is likely to be required, but the current level of fines does not correspond to the damage caused to the victim by the naked person. Obstacles must be prevented and, if that happens, a penalty must be imposed that can be felt, and it must be followed very much by the treatment of the offender. With regard to the second part of the legislative proposal, we just have to note that the legislation must keep up with time and digital development. Grove online violations are affecting many people today. It can put deep marks on those who are exposed to hetz based on sexual images. Society must show that we do not accept revenge porn, and we can, among other things, do so. do by setting up the penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150527	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge, and we move on to Mr. Hønge. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150533	This year we have read about a very controversial case with a mother who shared a surveillance photo of a person who had been devoid of her daughter. The mother was about to get a fine of 5,000 kroner. for breaches of the Personal Data Act. On the other hand, the blotter was fined just DKK 2,500. to devoid of two little girls. On the basis of the case, the Minister of Justice asked the Attorney General to investigate the level of punishment for deception. It was found here that a fine of between DKr 2 000 and DKr 4 000 is usually imposed on the naked person, and the seriousness of the crime does not measure up to that. The violation suffered by the victim is not adequately taken into account. The level of fines is simply too low. It is therefore proposed that the level of fines should generally be doubled for maladministration, including leniency. In addition to the doubled fine for deception, the government will increase the penalty framework and focus on digital sexual abuse. In recent years, we have witnessed an increased focus on digital sexual abuse in the media. We've heard stories about high school students sharing naked pictures in facebook groups on their phones and putting them out on the Internet. There have also been stories of young people in primary school who have shared naked images without consent. Due to the emergence of social media and the incredible ability of the Internet to store such images, these actions can be deeply offensive and give scars for life and persecute the offended for many years. There is a need for targeted action to stem this problem. That is why the government presented its proposal for a stronger response to digital sexual abuse, which should focus on this issue and which today's draft law is part of. First of all, initiatives must be taken to improve prevention and information in this area. The Danes, and especially the young people, should know that it has consequences when you share something online. It has consequences for the wrongdoer, but it also has consequences for the perpetrator. That is why, with this bill, we are tightening up the penalty for sexual abuse. All in all, these are sensible initiatives supported by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so that is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212150819	Thank you for the predominantly positive contributions that have come to the proposal here. Sharing naked images without the consent of the person in the picture is and remains a really serious act. I think we can all understand how deeply offensive it must be when such pictures of a private nature are shared publicly or in the nearest circle. It can have great personal consequences, and it can leave lasting scars on the soul. In order to stem the problem, at the beginning of the year, the government presented an initiative that sets in with a wide range of initiatives in the fight against digital sexual abuse. It's a multi-legged play. There are, among other things: focus on prevention and knowledge through a number of information initiatives, for example on social media. The aim of this effort has been to communicate more clearly to the public, that digital sexual abuse is punishable and that an infringement has significant consequences for both the victim and the perpetrator. The handling of cases of digital sexual abuse by the police and the prosecution has also been strengthened. For example, a guide has been prepared for police circles to ensure digital evidence in cases of digital sexual abuse in order to strengthen the possibility of making the necessary proof of further investigation and prosecution at an early stage. It has also been made easier to report digital sexual abuse, and police circles have increased their focus on the use of conflict councils and victim advice in cases of digital sexual abuse. The bill here lays down a penalty for the harsher cases of digital sexual abuse. It can be the sharing of images or videos of a particularly offensive nature, e.g. because there is a sexual activity and it may be the sharing of nude images that have been passed on, for example. to an entire high school where the person in the picture is a student or where the image is actually made publicly available on the Internet. In such cases, it is recommended that the penalty be measured to at least 60 days in jail. The government is also proposing to tighten the penalty for maladministration, including leniency, because we do not find a fine of DKK 2,500. is tall enough if you expose yourself, for example. For a child. Obstacles in the form of nakedness can be a very insulting experience for the wrongdoer, and if they are children, then it is something special. The aim is to ensure that the fine is more reflected in the violation of the victim associated with the nakedness. With these comments, I would like to thank you for your comments and I look forward to the further consideration and, of course, I am available for the questions that must be raised during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151119	We're gonna take care of a few right here. First, it's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151125	I would just like to ask the Minister for Justice, in relation to the punishment of the deception, whether the Minister, the government, could support a proposal that also required the treatment of the person who might be exposed. In other words, the important thing must be that it will not happen again, while at the same time the need for justice will also be met for those who are exposed to this. So will the government support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151152	Well, I feel that when we are dealing with legislative proposals here and there are various requests coming up that need to be dealt with in committee, that is of course something • and this is also the proposal that I think we should discuss further. I think that may sound quite reasonable at the outset, but I cannot stand here and say exactly how and how. But let us discuss this in the further discussion of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151215	Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151217	Of course, we are happy to discuss this, but when I say it, it is also because there is a nice penalty framework. We would like to see us not using that penalty, but that it would be good if we could stop people happily before, of course, but also the first time it happens so that it is not such a thing that repeats itself. But, of course, we will discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151235-2	Well, I totally agree with that. I just don't know enough about that part of it to say it's just like that and how we're supposed to do it. That is why I say: let us discuss it and see what will be the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151247	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151251	I would like to ask a few questions about the consultation response of Trine Baumbach, a lecturer and research centre manager at the Faculty of Law at the University of Copenhagen. What she points out is that in the way the bill has been put forward here, if there is a couple who are on a deserted beach and the man takes a picture of the woman, and then let us say that they are no longer boyfriends and the man then chooses to put this naked picture on the net, then it can be done with impunity, as the law is today, also because there are among other things. has been a verdict in the Vestre Landsret, which has upheld this principle and has acquitted a person of precisely publishing a picture in this way. Then it's just that I want to ask the Minister for Justice, what does the Minister for Justice think of this? Because I can see that some comments on the draft law say the following: the Ministry of Justice will come forward with a bill later in this session which, among other things, will: follow up on the other part of the report by the Criminal Court and then the number of violations of peace and honour, and the Ministry of Justice will in this connection look at the question of further criminalisation of the transmission of nude images than that resulting today from section 264 d of the Penal Code. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151407	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151407-2	This is really complicated law. I've also asked about it, and it's not simple. And that is why, later this year, we will come up with a general bill on violations of peace and honour, and in this context we will look at these cases. Let us now take the example that there is a demonstration on the street and that one chooses to go naked in that demonstration and that pictures are taken of it. Then you have to expect it to be shared somewhere. Are you naked on a beach, how many people should there be before you can expect it to be something more that you do in public and when do you think it is private? Well, there are just legal complications here. In fact, I almost wish that Mr. Rune Lund will ask some written questions about it in committee so that we can try to clarify what the challenge is, because it is not so simple. And then it's like we're sending out the signal that when we're going to discuss violations of peace and honour and come up with ideas about it later in this collection, you're going to have this law handled, because there are some border cases here. So it's not out of resentment; it's actually because this is not so easy to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151513	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151515	It may not be, but it certainly is. Because if a picture is taken of you while you are naked on a deserted beach, and if that picture is then divided on the net or hung up in the gym without your consent and you can clearly estimate that this is revenge porn, I think there is something wrong with that today, just because it is an image taken in some form of public space, cannot be said to be impunity-free. It is clear that it must be assessed on the basis of the specific circumstances, whether it is revenge porn or otherwise, but only the fact that the image has been taken in a public space, including a non-free public space, as a deserted beach is defined as the way the legislation is written, is a problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151557	Thank you. Sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151558	Yeah, I kind of agree with that. There's a challenge here. That is also why we simply need to get it drilled out more and we need to become more concrete about it. It's complicated where the limits should go exactly for this. That's why we'll bring you something later. So I hope that in committee we can try, firstly, to make the scale of the problem clear, and secondly, of course, to come up with a legislative proposal later that sets the right framework for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151628	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151650	The debate is open. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151653	Thank you. On behalf of all the parties of the Folketing and on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I should like to say that we take note of the Ombudsman's report and that we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151710	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. No one else wishes to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. It's agreed. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151732	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212151740	As can be seen from the government base, Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order with respect for human rights. We want to enter into active international cooperation and we want to comply with the international conventions which Denmark has signed up to. That said, conventions are not unchangeable. They are the expression of political negotiations and compromises, which is why it is also important that we are not afraid of touching, but that we are, on the contrary, willing to discuss and challenge the conventions when there is a need for them. This also applies to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Government agrees with the proposers that there is a need to look critically at the dynamic interpretation which over the years has brought the scope of the Convention out of line with the original intentions. That discussion is one of them. relevant in relation to the expulsion area, where the practice of the Court of Human Rights is of great importance for Denmark's ability to expel criminal aliens. The government has therefore decided to place the issue of reform of the European Convention on Human Rights on the international agenda. We will do so under the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. During the Presidency, the government will, inter alia: work to create tools that ensure that Member States are more involved and have the opportunity to influence the direction when they see that the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights is out of course. This is an ambitious and difficult project, because it will certainly not be an easy matter to get 47 countries to agree. However, we are convinced that other countries see some of the same challenges as us and, fortunately, we are not starting from scratch because there is already a reform discussion going on among the Member States of the Council of Europe. There are also initiatives that we can take at a national level to influence the interpretation of the conventions by the courts. The Government has therefore published a number of initiatives aimed at increasing the expelling of criminal aliens. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is expected to put forward a legislative proposal on the initiatives of this Assembly. The bill is expected, among other things. to include a change in the law on aliens so that the legal notes, based on the practice of the Court of Human Rights, determine the circumstances under which criminal aliens can be expelled in general. The Expedition Working Group has considered that this can, to a certain extent, contribute to the deportment of more criminal foreigners. If this could mean that just one further criminal alien is expelled, then I think it is a good idea for a legislative proposal to be put forward. The motion for a resolution here calls for the repeal of the so-called incorporation law. It is a 1992 law that incorporates the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution calls for all references to the European Convention on Human Rights or Denmark's international obligations to be written out of Danish law and for legislation to be revised where the legal process indicates that one or more provisions are supposed to be administered in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. The proposal is justified by the fact that in future the government will be able to pursue the policy of majority voting in the Folketing, among other things. in the field of aliens. But then it is also that we have to ask ourselves: is this the answer to our challenges? Is the repeal of the incorporation law a viable solution to the challenges we face in the area of the convention, including in relation to the expulsion of criminal foreigners? In the view of the government, the short answer is 'no' and I would like to explain why. Let me begin by explaining why the repeal of the incorporation law is not a snapshot solution. The repeal of the incorporation law, whatever is stated in the motion for a resolution, will not change the fact that Denmark will continue to be bound by international law to comply with the Convention on Human Rights, and we will also continue to be obliged to bring Danish legislation into line with the Convention and the practice of the Court of Human Rights. Although the incorporation law is repealed, the Convention on Human Rights may still be invoked for and applied by the Danish courts and other authorities. Therefore, in relation to the decision on specific cases, the repeal of the incorporation law would have a very limited legal significance. It is not possible to point to any cases where the incorporation law has made a difference in relation to the application of the Convention on Human Rights by the courts. In addition, Denmark will be able to continue to be brought before the European Court of Human Rights and Denmark will be legally obliged to follow the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. The repeal of the incorporation law would therefore not really be a solution to the challenges of the European Convention on Human Rights. Similarly, deletion of references to the European Convention on Human Rights in other Danish legislation or in processing a very limited legal value, because Danish legislation must in any case be administered in accordance with Denmark's international obligations, including the European Convention on Human Rights. So let me sum up the position of the government: we basically agree with the challenges described in the resolution in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why the government will also place the issue of modernising the Convention on the international agenda during the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. In addition, the Government has published a number of initiatives aimed at being more able to expel criminal foreigners, but we do not agree with the concrete measures proposed in the motion for a resolution. The repeal of the incorporation law is not a viable solution to the challenges we face with the Convention, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152336	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152339	Thank you. In some places there is almost the impression that religious feelings have arisen about these conventions. I would just like to ask the Minister: now that the government has embarked on this work, which has taken over the Presidency of the Council of Europe, what will be the outcome if, after having held the Presidency, the government is in a situation where nothing has changed? What does the government intend to do if the Minister means what he has just said?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152409	But it would be a rather upsetting attitude if I stood here on the platform and said: if it does not succeed, it will be so and so. Well, this is all about more things. We are actually doing something about the Court's practice, namely saying that we are now taking it on board. After all, we believe that there is room for us to get the court's practice into the Aliens Act so that we get even closer to practice. There we think there is a room for tightening, and that is why we are doing it now. That's why we're doing something. Something's happening, too. The recent judgments of the Court of Human Rights are quite interesting. It can actually be seen here that if a country can be seen to have dealt with the matter adequately and correctly, the court does not see any reason to oppose it, and I think that is a very interesting development. So, in my opinion, there is a positive process that is moving in the right direction, including at the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152509	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152511	Then there is another question. In his speech, the Minister stressed that he did not think that this proposal would change anything if it were implemented. So let me just ask the Minister: why are we not just implementing it, so what is the good argument against the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152527-2	If we write this convention out, we're still gonna go away and maybe be more convicted because we haven't done the right thing, if we say right away that this is what we're gonna do. That is why I believe that we are going to put ourselves at a disadvantage in this context. Now the Danish People's Party's proposal is not at least as I understand it: we have to resign from the European Court of Human Rights, but that we have to write the convention out. If you want to leave, the consequences are quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152557	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152559	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Maybe I just heard it wrong, but should I understand it in such a way that the Minister for Justice's main argument against the proposal that has come from the Danish People's Party was that it did not mean anything at all that it had a very limited meaning? Well, was that really the Justice Minister's main argument against the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152622	No. I am sorry if that was the case, because we believe in the fact that it is important for Denmark as a country to stand firm that we want a strong international legal order with respect for human rights. That is the starting point we have and what we are acting on. However, it should not stop you from saying that perhaps there are some things that are not working completely optimally today. I reserve the right to point out that over the years we have at least seen a dynamic interpretation by the court, which means that there has been something to come for, and that is also why we are making a change of law here in the Folketing. However, I do think it is important and the government considers it important that we stand firm on the international legal order and that we stand firm on human rights. And then I think it is important that we, as politicians, ensure that there is also public support for these rights, otherwise I find that worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152716	I'm not sure if Mr. Søren Søndergaard wishes to speak again. He does. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152721	I fully agree with the Minister on the importance of support for the international legal order in terms of human rights and so on. That is why I had thought that this was what the Minister wanted to emphasise in his speech. It wasn't. It was that the proposals of the Danish People's Party would have no meaning. I think that is a strange approach, because it does not matter whether it matters or not. If the government's position in principle is that we should defend the existing human rights system, then it is not decisive whether the Danish People's Party's proposal has a big or small significance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152801	I don't think that's a perfectly fair interpretation of my speech here, if I'm to be honest. I have said something about the legal order on which we stand; I have said something about the government's convention project, about our initiatives in the field of foreigners; and I have of course commented on the content of the resolution. I think I should. Well, it would be weird if I stood there and said I wouldn't tell you anything about that, so I've said something about that. But most of my pages are now about something other than that, sir. Søren Søndergaard says.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152836	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152840	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice why he thinks it is good that we are standing on the back of the European Convention on Human Rights, why it is good that we are included in it and why it is good that it is incorporated into Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152855	I think it is a good thing that a small country like Denmark and now I can take Denmark's example in an international world is insisting that there should be an international legal order in which we enforce human rights. But we must also stand on the view that if we have a court that interprets wider and wider, we risk losing the support of a population, and I am actually very concerned about that. So when the government has set itself in front of this project on the whole track of the European Court of Human Rights in connection with the Presidency of the Council of Europe, it is actually because we want to preserve and safeguard human rights. Because if there are too many things that people cannot see themselves in, then I am afraid that we are losing popular support, and I think that is deeply serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152941	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212152943	Thank you. Now the Minister only answered the first half of my question. Because I also asked why the Minister for Justice thinks it is good that we have incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish legislation, so I would like to hear the Minister's reply to that. Then I would really like to remind the Minister for Justice that the Institute for Human Rights has just pointed out that there are plenty of opportunities to tighten up if that is what you want in relation to sending out criminal foreigners. So there is no reason at all to be so concerned about the consequences for the European Court of Human Rights, and I would also like the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153021	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153022	Yes, things are developing dynamically, and practice is evolving too, and I think that is really, really interesting. I think it is particularly interesting that the Institute for Human Rights has pointed out that there is a space for what the Court of Justice in Strasbourg says and what we say, for example. I've seen of convictions here at home. That is where we have said as a government that this room is now being taken on board. We take it upon ourselves and write in the Aliens Act how that practice should be understood. I think that is a very good way of accepting what is from the Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153059	Thank you, Minister. We are going to the rapporteur's line, to Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153120	I first got very familiar with the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention almost 12 years ago when a clause in the Wall Men's Agreement with our employers was declared contrary to human rights. It was a 100-year-old paragraph, and I must admit that I was rather shocked. Why, though, should a court in Strasbourg decide what agreements our own union made with the masters? Those companies had to decide for themselves what agreements they wanted to conclude, and what did it hurt a lot of judges who had never set their feet in Denmark, and certainly not on a scaffolding in Denmark? That judgment provoked me, and it still does, just as it provokes me, that because of the interpretation of the Convention we have difficulty in expelling criminal foreigners. We even have problems showing Romanians to serve in their own country, an EU country. It is crazy, just as it is crazy that our exception to the attachment requirement in the area of family reunification is suddenly also contrary to human rights. It waters down the importance of human fundamental rights. When I think of human rights, I am thinking of the Holocaust, in other words, of Europe's experience of genocide, but also of the 1930s, when the new democracies of the continent proved to be more fragile than most had imagined. The trial in Nuremberg wasn't just about justice for the victims. It was primarily about the need for the whole of Europe to open the door emphatically to Hitler. With the subsequent binding human rights agreements, Europe put a huge lock on that door. Today's important and relevant discussion on the European Convention on Human Rights must, in our view, take this historic starting point. There is an obvious need to limit the scope over which the Court has acquired power over the years, and there is a reasonable and democratic basis for discussing the very content of the case law developed over the years in order to change this practice. The Convention and the Court are losing popular legitimacy in these years, and we must take this very seriously. For the Social Democrats, the task is to restore confidence in human rights, not to remove rights. For social democracy, therefore, this resolution is not the right way forward. It leaves more questions than it answers. First of all, it creates uncertainty about the Danish position in the field. This undermines the international legal order that we all have, just like the little boy in the schoolyard, an interest in maintaining. But I would also like to say that we fully understand the frustration. We have it ourselves, but now it's time to keep your head a little cold. Denmark now holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe and, as we have just heard from the Minister, our country has invested a great deal of diplomacy and political capital in an attempt to bring together a large number of very different countries for a number of changes to practices in this area. If we suddenly adopt this proposal from the Danish People's Party in the middle of this process, all this excellent diplomatic work will fall to the ground. Finally, it is worth remembering what the Minister of Justice said last time, we discussed this matter in the Parliamentary Assembly, namely that the repeal of the incorporation law, whatever is stated in the resolution, will not change the fact that Denmark will continue to be obliged to comply with the Convention on Human Rights and that we will also continue to be obliged to organise Danish legislation in accordance with the Convention on the Practice of the Court of Human Rights. The Minister repeated the same thing a short time ago. We in the Social Democratic Party would very much like to discuss how we can effectively limit the negative consequences of the excessively dynamic interpretation of the Convention by the Court, and we are also prepared to be very creative in order to ensure the expulsion of criminal foreigners, ensure the service of other EU countries and ensure that foreign dancers have the opportunity to return home with their foreign spouse. But we cannot support writing the convention out of Danish law. In those words, we will reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153515	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153518	I understand that the Social Democratic Party is very frustrated that people cannot be expelled for torture-like conditions, and that is, of course, a point of view that you can have. But if we take the concrete example, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself mentioned, namely the expulsion is Romanian to prison cells of less than 3 m2 per year. Where is the problem, then, who has the court defined as torture-like conditions? Is it in the fact that we have a court that defines 3 m2 that is roughly the area, sir? Mattias Tesfayes stands up there on the platform as torture-like conditions if you are to be locked up there for 5,10 or 15 years? Is that the problem? Or is the problem that we have freedom of movement in the European Union, which means that anyone who is a Romanian can come here, but if he or she commits crime, can we not send him or her back because there are countries in the European Union that are violating human rights? What really is the problem?? is it the European Union or the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153617	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153619	Firstly, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that I am not quite sure that the 3 m2 is the right number. Secondly, I would like to say that I do not think it is fair to say that the Social Democratic Party wants to show itself to be tortured. That is our position. What has surprised us is that an EU country is apparently not in a position to carry out a service under reasonable conditions and that it may therefore be the case that, as Romanians, you can go to Denmark and commit crime, and we are not able to deport them to serve in their own country. It's grotesque. I'll hold on to that. It has to be the case that all EU countries can, as a starting point, have a prison system that complies with human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153657	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153658	Well, at least I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye in the European Court of Human Rights is absolutely grotesque that there are EU countries that do not live up to basic human rights, but what does that have to do with the European Court of Human Rights? After all, it is not the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg that we are discussing now, it is the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. What the hell does it have to do with that? The fact that the European Union allows countries not to respect human rights, what the hell does that have to do with the European Court of Human Rights? I think it's all getting mixed up in a big light bulb, and it leaves someone with the impression that this is not being taken very seriously. I think it is very important to insist that you cannot return to torture-like conditions, whether you come from an EU country or another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153742	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153744	I would just like to say that when the Supreme Court ruled that the four Romanians from the so-called Operation Hvepsebo could not be sent to serve in their own country, it was on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153758	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212153807	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to start by saying that the proposal provides for a very, very relevant debate on the European Convention on Human Rights, because the Left also believes that we should be ready to discuss the conventions as we know them today. However, this does not change the fact that we in the Left believe that the international conventions generally benefit both Denmark and the world community. Denmark therefore has a clear interest in strong international cohesion and a strong international legal order, including respect for human rights, and this requires us to live up to the conventions that we ourselves have signed. As I see it, there is a need for common rules of the game, and if we as a single country simply resign ourselves, how can we ever be critical of some of the abuses that are taking place in other countries such as the United States? Russia, Saudi Arabia or Turkey? At the same time, we also recognise that there have been a number of unfortunate cases where, in practice, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights has made it impossible to expel hard-boiled criminals. This group of people has no interest in respecting our society or in integrating into our society, and they are unfortunately protecting themselves behind conventions such as the ECHR. That is why the Liberal Party shares the view that we should be critical of the way in which the conventions are interpreted, but that is not the same as the fact that the content of the resolution here and the total printing of the European Convention on Human Rights in Danish legislation are the way forward. As I see it, we need a right-hand and left-hand limit, or otherwise described: we need a framework, some rules within which all countries should be able to act. Then you can discuss where the right-wing and left-wing restrictions should be, but we cannot just remove the system, because then we will move away from what I would call a civilised world society and towards outright anarchy, and I do not think anyone needs or wants that. The Government's critical view of the Convention appears, among other things, to be the case. in government, where it appears that we will examine the functioning of the European Convention on Human Rights in Danish law and whether there is anything that can be done for example. to amend Article 8, and that is one of the work that is happening right now under the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. The Minister also mentioned that we are looking at a number of initiatives to strengthen our ability to expel criminal foreigners. When I was earlier looking through this a little bit with the feeling that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned that one gets very frustrated when one hears about these cases of people who cannot be expelled I came across an article from 11 December about a member of the Levacovic family who has been shown out of the country by Danish police and who therefore is currently staying in Croatia so bad it is not so bad either. I could also read in the article that Jura Levacovic, as he is called, is the fourth member of Denmark's most criminal family, which has now been expelled. So it is not the case that no criminal aliens are expelled. Then we also have the case of Danny Abdalla. He has not been expelled, but he has at least been sentenced to detention, which means he will be away from Danish society for a very, very long time. So I would say that this, combined with the initiatives we are taking in the Council of Europe and the initiatives that the government is taking, makes us happy with the work that the government is doing and therefore we cannot support the content of the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154145	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154147	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth, in fact, was based on the defence of the European conventions. I thought that was liberating to hear. Next, I would like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth, about Mr. Marcus Knuth does not find it strange that you have not taken advantage of all the opportunities that Denmark and changing governments in Denmark have had not only the present one; it is also the previous one, the previous one and the previous one and the previous one again. There are, of course, a number of possibilities within the framework of the Convention. There is an opportunity to appear in the court cases and to raise an objection. I have asked how many times it has been done, and it turned out that it would have been done in a case, otherwise we have not bothered to deal with it. It is possible to influence the election of judges. It is the case that in the European Court of Human Rights it is parliamentarians who elect judges, including Danish parliamentarians. Nothing has happened on the part of changing governments in relation to influencing it. It has been possible to accede to a convention which facilitates access. You've had a lot of opportunities, and you've done nothing. Was it, sir? Marcus Knuth said, in fact, a great indignant criticism of changing governments' inability to act in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154301	It wasn't. It was a pleasure that we now have a government with, among other things. Our Justice Minister here, who shows a very, very big initiative in looking forward rather than looking backwards. And I think it is fantastic, and I am actually proud of the initiative that has been taken in the Council of Europe from now on to the fact that we no longer have the presidency as I remember it in May. So I am focusing on looking forward and looking at the initiatives and progress that are actually being made right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154326	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154328	I'm looking forward, too. Well, all the options that have been so far are still gone. They haven't disappeared. Why have these opportunities not been exploited? And why are these opportunities not being exploited? Why is the frame completely bypassed? It is notable, then, that there is a convention which gives countries many opportunities to influence judgments, including through parliamentarians, and nothing happens on the Danish side and then suddenly comes up with a indignant criticism that they have gone too far in the European Court of Human Rights. So I think, if you can use that expression in this Chamber, that you first pee on people and then you say that they smell. Isn't that a little unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154409	You can do that. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154412	First of all, as I said in my speech, overall we need to have some rules of the game. There I think it is important also to praise the European Convention on Human Rights for the protection it gives people. But to say that we are not doing anything, at a time when we are actually banners in trying to get international cooperation on, for example. to look at Article 8 is completely out in the hemp. I am proud of the work Denmark does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154440	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212154456	Thank you for the floor. In the poor view of the Enhedslisten, the proposal by the Danish People's Party that we are considering today to write the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish law is probably one of the worst proposals that the Danish People's Party has put forward for a long time, and that says not so little after all. This is a really bad proposal. The reason for this is three things I would like to mention here. Firstly, it is based on a number of wrong assumptions. No, there is no evidence that the European Court of Human Rights, as stated in the proposal, has on numerous occasions prevented convicted criminals from being expelled from Denmark. There is no evidence of this. Secondly, no, it is not true that the Danish constitution guarantees respect for human rights in the same way as the European Convention on Human Rights. Just take the most ultimate human right, the right not to be deprived of life through the death penalty. Is this guaranteed in the Danish constitution? Is the right not to be shot for a crime or a crime or hanged or guillotined, or what do I know, guaranteed in the Danish constitution? No, it's not. In fact, it was the case in the military penal code until not so long ago that, in recent times at least, since the last revision of the Constitution, there existed the possibility of actually applying the death penalty. So, no, there is no guarantee of human rights in the Danish constitution. In other words, abolishing the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law and saying that we are simply relying on the Danish constitution, simply does not hold up if we want human rights well. Now people notice that I am starting from the fact that the proposal from the Danish People's Party has the intention that the Danish People's Party actually wants with it. Then we can discuss with the Minister of Justice and others whether we are bound by some other things, but I try to respect the content of the proposal and the thinking of the Danish People's Party's proposal. I believe that the proposal ignores the fact that Denmark is not an isolated island in the world, but that we have an interest in human rights also being applied to the much more than 99%. of the world's population who do not live in Denmark. There I fully recognize that the argument is not based on science ■ it is based on morality, and that morality can be different. If you basically don't care how people feel outside of Denmark, then of course it is not a very important argument that has no particular validity. If, on the other hand, one basically believes that we are on one planet and that we all have some inalienable rights as residents on this globe • call the universal human rights yes, then it is clear that this is a different matter. This brings me to the third reason why in the Enhedslisten we are opposed to this proposal, namely that it is directly aimed at Danish citizens who will pay a high price if it is implemented and has the effect that the Danish People's Party wants. Now I am not talking about all the benefits that the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights have given to the Danish people in terms of legal certainty here in Denmark, because they are numerous, and we may be able to discuss that. On the other hand, I am talking about the abuses that Danish citizens will be subjected to on travelling abroad, whether because they are working abroad because they are abroad to study or to take a holiday. Does anyone really believe that we can print the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish law, with the result that the Danish People's Party wants, without other countries having the same idea, or that they will use it as an opportunity to explain that the human rights nonsense in their country is certainly subject to democratic decisions in their parliaments; for example. on reintroducing the death penalty, allowing torture or other degrading treatment of people? I am at least one hundred per cent sure that Turkey's Islamist president will sit in his great sultan palace and clap in his little hands if the Danish People's Party's proposal is adopted. And maybe he's not someone I think we should bet on making too much of it. But the crucial question here is of course all the Danes who will get into trouble as human rights are downgraded and abolished in the countries around us. That is, for example, the case. The long-distance driver, who is being put into a torture-like cell in Romania, where protection against it is not the EU, but the European Court of Human Rights; the EU is not a protection for human rights or it is the Christian missionary who comes into contact with Russia, or it is the family hazard who is being detained illegally during a holiday in Turkey. These examples are not taken from the moon, they are taken from reality. And with the proposals of the Danish People's Party, it will become more realistic that we see more of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155022	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I can see that we are quite divided on this issue. In a very modest way, we have to say that we are. The rapporteur cites the death penalty as an example, and I think that somewhere is interesting to dive into. I respect, and I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur says that he will deal with what is in the proposal itself, rather than having a different form of discussion. But you would not see the death penalty reinstated in Denmark if this proposal were implemented. Sometimes the whole issue of the convention is presented in such a way that if you did not have the conventions, there would suddenly be a majority in the Folketing to introduce things that we thankfully finished with many years ago, such as the death penalty. I do not even think that there is a member of the Parliament who could be in favour of the death penalty. So I think somewhere, there really are some threats coming on the field about things that will fall into our heads if that should happen. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155132	I am delighted if it is only occasionally that some individual members of the Danish People's Party will express their sympathy for the death penalty and that it is not widely promoted in the Parliamentary Chamber. I'm glad. I think the rapporteur ignored what was my point. If we have the basic assumption and we say: we do not have any human rights on which we agree and which must apply in all countries, and which we ourselves have agreed to do, there is no one we have not signed up to and that it is just up to the national parliament to decide, then the national parliament in Turkey can decide to reinstate the death penalty in Turkey and, for that matter, they can also decide to introduce torture, and the national parliament in Poland can do the same, and the Romanian parliament can cut the size of the prison cells from 3 to 11⁄2 m2 and so on. So it is not just going to hit the people who happen to live in those countries. It is also going to hit those people who sometimes travel to those countries or somehow come into conflict with the laws of those countries. Perhaps because they have done something wrong, perhaps because they have done nothing wrong. The long-distance driver who is wrongly accused of a traffic offence. So, yeah, this is important everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155249	Would you like another question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155252	Thank you. But, sir. Søren Søndergaard, this is an artificial premise. If President Erdogan in Turkey is going to do any of the atrocities that the rapporteur is talking about, who is going to stop him? Surely he is not being held back by human rights. It is quite naive to imagine that President Erdogan is thinking very carefully about how he should do it in order to escape. If he wants to do this, he could just do it. This isn't what's slowing him down. If you look at the whole record of atrocities that that man could make up, then you shouldn't tell me that it's human rights that he lets himself be held back from.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155327	In fact, I believe that the representative of the Danish People's Party is wrong. Why was the death penalty abolished in Turkey? Why was it abolished in Poland? Why was it abolished in Russia? Why was it abolished in Ukraine? It is currently not abolished in Belarus; therefore Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe. It was abolished because it was a prerequisite for participation, and that condition had to be accepted. Otherwise, you could stay away. And they wanted to be in it. The problem Erdogan has is that if he reinstates the death penalty, he will be out of the Council of Europe. There are many Turks who may accept the re-establishment of the death penalty. I shall not be able to express my opinion on this, but there is at least a majority of Turks who do not want to see relations with Europe disrupted. That is why there is a connection, and that is why it matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155418	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155426	Thank you for that, President. Reform of human rights is needed. This was written by Associate Professor at the University of Copenhagen Anders Henriksen in a chronicle in Politiken on 17 January this year, and on 28 March he wrote among other things. Jonas Christoffersen, director of the Institute for Human Rights, states that it is quite legitimate to discuss human rights. In this way, it can be said that the motion for a resolution we are discussing now forms part of a completely relevant and ongoing debate which is going on in the media; which is going on in universities; which is going on at the Institute for Human Rights, and that is why we must welcome the motion for a resolution. It is necessary to discuss our relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights, including whether we are taking advantage of the opportunities it offers in order to pursue the policy agreed in Denmark. One of the cases that Anders Henriksen raises in the crown of January of this year is precisely these issues, which Article 8 triggers, with the expulsion of criminal foreigners. What is his point of view is that it is something that can weaken the legitimacy of human rights and, of course, it is a situation that must be avoided. That is why, of course, we also need to look at whether it really is the case that the dynamic interpretations of human rights have moved too far away from the objectives behind the Convention, and that is also what the government has set itself as a goal in connection with the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe, and I hope, of course, that it is a project that will succeed. As far as the resolution itself is concerned, the question is whether it will have the effect that the authors of the motion for a resolution want, namely to write the Convention out of Danish legislation. There are some problems of interpretation, and I have discussed them in the past, and most other rapporteurs have done so, and I think that the best strategy is to go in and, in cooperation with the rest of Europe, look at how, for example. The Court of Justice operates as we do with our Presidency in the Council of Europe. It is in Denmark's very clear interest that there is an international legal order. As several others have also mentioned, it is probably not of great legal importance to withdraw references to the Convention from the legislation, because we are co-signators of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think that if you are going to move on with this discussion, you really have to go another way, and that is a way that I also hope that the Danish People's Party will take an interest in walking. After all, the Convention on Human Rights came into being in the years immediately after World War II, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also said, and the people who wrote it had World War II in very fresh remembrance, and therefore in several of the articles there are quite significant provisions on the grounds of state security and public order. Article 8 (2) Article 9 (2) 2 of Article 10 (2) 2 of Article 11, and then there is the whole of Article 15 on public hazard situations and Article 16 on the political activities of foreigners. These provisions on state security are, in fact, a lever for a sensible policy which is balanced by the wishes of a very broad majority of the population. I have to remind you that the reason why a ban on masking, which also includes the ban on burka and niqab, is something in Denmark, is that a ruling has been handed down by the European Court of Human Rights because it is a threat to public security. The Østre Landsret has issued a judgment on family reunification, in which it is also the economic security of the state that plays a role. So the whole question of state security lies buried here and is probably a much more viable path than the proposal is. That is why I hope that on a later occasion we can have a constructive discussion about it. But we cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212155922	Today we are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to repeal the incorporation law into the European Convention on Human Rights. What the Danish People's Party wants is to write the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish law. I can begin by saying that the alternative cannot support the proposal. We were unable to do so last year when the Danish People's Party made a similar proposal. In fact, I think it is a worrying proposal, that is to say that the Danish People's Party wants human rights written out of Danish legislation. After all, they are written in at the time, because they exist precisely to protect the individual citizen from abuses by those in power. It's actually quite thought-provoking. As I understand it, the Danish People's Party believes that Danish legislation must always be above everything else, including human rights. I fully agree that the nation states must be able to pursue the policy they have support for in the population as long as the fundamental rights of the citizens are not violated. After all, human rights came into being on the basis of a fairly important realization, namely that the law, democracy and legal systems of the nation states are not always enough. For what is one doing as a citizen if the state, which is really there to protect one's interests and interests, instead violates one's basic freedoms? Over the years, we have seen several examples, in Europe, among others, of democratically elected rulers who, once they have gained power, are putting human rights and the division of power out of control, thus actually using power to restrict the freedom of the individual and to introduce undemocratic and authoritarian policies. That is why the basic idea behind human rights is precisely that all people have fundamental rights that are inviolable and that apply across national borders at all times. When I read the Danish People's Party's proposal, I therefore read that the Danish People's Party does not recognise that the individual citizen is entitled to rights that protect the individual citizen's claims against illegitimate attacks and interference from the state. Because if it is the state that is committing abuse against the individual and we do not have a set of common rights that cross national borders, who is going to prevent the abuse? Who's gonna hold the state responsible? Today it is the European Convention on Human Rights, in which our rights are legally enshrined. And then we have the European Court of Human Rights, which guarantees those rights and holds the Member States accountable. Then I can read from the proposal that this is the result of the authors of the motion for a resolution who believe that the Convention is an obstacle to the policy of aliens which they wish to pursue together with the government. More specifically, we are dealing with specific cases in which the Convention is taken into account to ensure that criminal foreigners cannot be expelled. Now, I think that is a perfectly legitimate view to have that one wants the discussion whether it is so. I just don't agree with it. Because it is true that the Convention also applies to people who have broken the law, and that is precisely what is at the heart: human rights apply to all people, including those with whom we do not like, including those with whom we do not agree. And the Convention on Human Rights does not prevent us from expelling criminal foreigners. Figures from the Institute of Human Rights and Justitia have shown this. This is really about the interpretation by the Danish Court of Justice of the Convention on Human Rights. Then there is the argument that the European Convention on Human Rights is obsolete and is from a different time. And yes, that is quite right, it has a few years on the back, but I certainly still think it is topical. And I believe that it works with dynamic interpretation practices, which means that it interprets the Convention on Human Rights from the time it was born. With these words, I must say that the alternative cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212160402	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212160413	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Marcus Knuth, whom I think has made an excellent speech about the fact that this resolution is not about interpretation and that it is not about the interpretation and dynamic development of rights, which, for example, is not the case. Today, too, homosexuals give rights that they did not have when the Convention came into being. It is also part of the dynamics because the world is changing, and it is quite obvious that we are happy about that. There are several rapporteurs who have explained the interpretations and dynamic developments and how Denmark has every opportunity to engage in that debate, and there are very many rapporteurs who have explained what this proposal is not about. This proposal is about writing human rights out of Danish law, and with this proposal, the Danish People's Party says that we, as the first and so far the only country in Europe, must take the lead. Officially, then, we must send human rights to the dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung I think that is also frightening, and I think it is worth staying with. I think it is evidence of an enthusiasm in the tight competition that has been taking place in Danish politics for many years, and now it has come to the point that we have to come up with drastic things. This is an attempt to delete memories, as I think previous rapporteurs, among others. Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Social Democrat rapporteur, so well explained about one of the most tragic events in world history, namely World War II. Our promise to each other after World War II was made in the form of European human rights. We looked into each other's eyes in Europe and said: never again, never again, should we accept annihilation, persecution, discrimination against an entire population simply because of their ethnicity or religion. After all, it is rights that give you and me protection, it is rights that ensure that you and I, any Dane, citizen of Europe, can find security and protection if someone suddenly wants to pursue us, perhaps because we are Danes, or because we are women or members of a political party. It is fundamental rights that ensure that all people are worth the same amount. This resolution is therefore the promise that the Danish People's Party will now take the lead in the whole of Europe and break when they propose to remove human rights from Danish legislation. Thus Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to the Germans, our neighbour, our biggest trading partner: We are worth more than you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says to our Swedish neighbours and our best friends: We do not accept your rules, we only play by our own. Thus Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl the back to the British and to all our other friends and allies in Europe and says: Community, solidarity, rights are something you have to deal with yourself; in Denmark we don't care, because we have our own. If you take the consequence of that and keep going in that direction, we will be the most isolated country in Europe. We will be those with whom no one else trusts or wants to make agreements, and that will cost us in jobs, in welfare, and that will be entirely self-inflicted. I have not been here as long as many other rapporteurs; I have been at Christiansborg for six years, but I think I have been here long enough to be a first-hand witness to a continuous competition, which continues to culminate today in the most shameful of all, because day after day I see colleagues competing on who can pull the toughest strings out of the drawer, but we are not talking about what kind of problems we want to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, alien tension, human rights are not a sporting competition, because it is quite specific about people. There are still places in the world where it is forbidden to be homosexual, there are places in the world where you do not have the same rights as other citizens, just because you are a Christian, and there are plenty of places in the world where it is very, very difficult to be a woman. Our human rights are the most powerful protection we have against such things, and they are not going out with the bathing water. We must uphold human rights, we must even fight for them, and it is quite obvious that we should never take them for granted. So the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's proposal is a wake-up call for all of us: if we go down his path, we accept that human rights apply to some, but not to others, and that is basically not human rights, and I will never accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161110	Here you go to the next rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161130	The Danish People's Party does not like human rights. That's just the way it is. The party's mentor, Søren Krarup, has written numerous articles and books in which he has simply criticized human rights. He seems to think that it is against Christian thinking that you have human rights because it is against the Christian neighbourly love idea that you have rights that you have to have all over the world. So that's the Danish People's Party's approach to it, and that's why this proposal is so far logical in addition to it. I am not going to go into such a major philosophical and fundamental discussion of it, but simply to say that I agree with the rapporteurs who have pointed out that it is untimely for us in Denmark to go on a case like this one; that we have always thought, as such, that we are an open society, that it is an advantage with international rules, an international legal system, which also applies to human rights, and we, as a small country, have a huge, huge advantage of that. Sir. Søren Søndergaard had some excellent practical examples of how Danish citizens can enjoy it if they get caught abroad, and that it would be disastrous for those people if we went along with this galley. Fortunately, however, there is no majority in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party; it is more in the Danish People's Party's marking department, and that is the way it is. But in any case, I can guarantee that we will by no means support that thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161319	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Conservative People's Party, and that's Mr. Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161327	Thank you. The Danish People's Party wishes to impose a bill on the government which repeals the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into Danish law. The proposal is based, in particular, on Article 8 of the Convention, which has on several occasions prevented the expulsion of criminal foreigners, whom anyone else would think should have been expelled. I am also not entirely satisfied with the role of the Court in particular. One is that we are part of a convention that aims to safeguard and disseminate human rights in Europe and in the world, so that we also have a common frame of reference for fundamental rights in Europe, and another is the dynamic interpretation style that is put down over the Strasbourg Convention. We see that the Convention is increasingly being interpreted expansively, so that today it provides a protection of rights which was not intended at all when it was originally concluded. The Court has also been criticized by Danish and Nordic experts who believe that the interpretation style of the Court is not compatible with Danish case law and that it can almost be said that the Court creates law and not simply applies law. The Danish legislature and the Danish judiciary will be put out of action when Danish judges are forced blindly to follow decisions of an international court. We shall look into that. On the other hand, writing the convention out of Danish law will have a limited effect. We will still be legally obliged to follow the decisions of the Court. Danish law must still be administered in accordance with our international obligations. That is why the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party will not really be a solution to the challenges facing the Court. The government's basis states that Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order, including respect for human rights. The government wants to enter into active international cooperation and comply with the international conventions which Denmark has signed up to. However, it also states that there is a need to look critically at the way in which the dynamic interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights has extended the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights. We do this by taking up the challenge of the Council of Europe. We need tools to ensure that the nation states have more influence on the direction of interpretation by the Court of Human Rights. We also want a legal situation in which we have the opportunity to repatriate criminal foreigners who do not have the right to be here. First of all, they harm the well-functioning refugees and immigrants who want Denmark, and they are the first to be harmed by their presence. They damage our security and cohesion and the belief in a peaceful and law-abiding life in Denmark. But writing the convention out of Danish law will have no real meaning. Instead, we in the Council of Europe need to look more fundamentally at the role of the Convention and the Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161657	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161701	I have two questions for the Conservative rapporteur. The first is: is the Conservative rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party completely opposed to any dynamic interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights? The second is, did I hear Mr. Naser Khader right, sir. Naser Khader can possibly just confer with his script when I heard the rapporteur say that we, the Conservatives, want to see whether the Danish courts should follow the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? Said Mr. Naser Khader it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161738	What I referred to was the criticism of the Danish Centre for Human Rights, namely that the Danish judges often blindly follow the judgments that come from the court, and there you have to be much more critical than you are today. It is also a call to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161800	I had two questions. The first question was that of the dynamic interpretation. I do not know whether we still believe that cases of violations of homosexual rights should be rejected on the grounds that there is just equality and that this has nothing to do with homosexuals. But the second question is: does the Conservative People's Party really believe that Danish judges should not follow the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161832	That is not what I am saying we should do in all cases. Of course we have to follow the Court in some areas, but there have been some cases where the Danish Centre for Human Rights has said that there have been blindly followed the judgments that have been and that there should have been more critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161854	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212161904	Thank you. In Denmark only Danish legislation should apply and Danish law should be possible to be amended by a majority of the Danish Parliament. That is how we start our proposal, which aims to get the government to put forward proposals to have the European Convention on Human Rights written out of Danish law. We have seen how problematic some of these rights can be in relation to criminals who cannot be expelled because of the right to privacy or family life... criminals who have nothing to do in Denmark, but who have seriously violated the Danes, have violated our sense of justice and who should not be here. We have also seen how it has made the whole situation of tolerated stay difficult, which is also something that is deeply problematic for real, very many people, and we have seen how the case of Haspsebo has shown that this is deeply, deeply problematic. It must be the case that Danish legislation takes precedence above all else, rather than conventions, otherwise the Danes will lose fundamental confidence in this system. The conventions are old-fashioned, as was another rapporteur on the subject, and the world has changed significantly compared to the time they were doing these things. So in many cases this does not make much sense. I do not believe that Denmark suddenly becomes an uncivilised country because we allow ourselves to let the Folketing decide more. In fact, I believe that what makes Denmark a civilised country is that we have a good system, that we have a parliament that is actually in line with the electorate in relation to the wishes and needs that may be in the population. It has nothing to do with conventions; it has something to do with the Danes. I should also like to thank the many rapporteurs for the various comments, and I can also say that the proposal is being read incredibly differently in the Parliamentary Chamber. Some rapporteurs thought that the sky would almost fall into our heads if this proposal were adopted, because it could mean that the Folketing over night would come up with all sorts of strange things, fun things. I do not know a single member of parliament who would suggest the points that were made. At the same time, then, there are other rapporteurs who have said that this has no meaning whatsoever, that it would have no practical significance whatsoever, and that is why the proposal was rejected. So there are, it has to be said, rather divergent positions in this direction. Then there was a rapporteur who said that human rights were good because it gave homosexuals some rights, and I think it is worth remembering that there will of course be a huge majority in the Folketing in order to maintain those rights precisely. It is therefore conditional on a majority of the people wishing to do so, and it is not, of course, a protection that the conventions can provide. One almost has the idea that these conventions for some are so sacred that it could be Moses who had carried the stone tablets with the conventions down from the mountain. These conventions have gradually become so sacred, and I find this problematic, because it prevents a healthy, but also critical, debate on how we organise our societies, and nobody benefits from that. Then I would like to thank you for your comments and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162242	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162256	Thank you. I would just like to ask a few questions about the concrete use of the European Convention on Human Rights in Danish law. Does not the Danish People's Party think that it was actually very good when Max Blicher Hansen got rid of the trade union tyranny and established, with the help of the Court of Human Rights, that one could not be forced to be a member of a trade union? Do you not think it was very good when Helge Dohrmann of the Progress Party ended the ban on satellite dishes, which we actually had up to the mid-1980s, including with the human rights convention in hand? Does not the Danish People's Party also think it was very good when Jens Olaf Jersild from Danmarks Radio could go to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg and establish that it was therefore legal to show the broadcast about the Green Jackets despite the Danish racism clause, which the Danish People's Party also wants to abolish?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162345	Well, sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen mentions three specific cases, and there I have to say that I think the important thing would be that it is the Danish Parliament that legislates in these areas, i.e. that this work takes place in the Folketing. So perhaps I think the questioner is missing a bit. But it may be that there will be a deepening in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162405	Well, now there was another round, I understand. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162409	It is precisely the whole point of human rights that, just as the point of the constitution is, we in the Folketing cannot pass a law that violates anyone's human rights. That is what we did in Denmark, in other words we denied freedom of expression by not allowing TV series to be taken down, we denied freedom of association by forcing people to be members of a particular union, and we refused freedom of expression by banning a television journalist from bringing about current stories about the situation on Østerbro and Nørrebro, then with the Green Jackets. So these are just three examples of Danish courts and the Danish Parliament violating human rights where the human rights convention came to the aid of individual citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162502	I think that when you have a very good case, it is also possible either to convince the Danes that they have to vote for some parties that want to change the rules or to have a majority in Parliament actively change the rules. So basically, I'm not buying that premise. I believe that the Danes are quite reasonable people who are able to choose generally quite reasonable politicians who can then adopt the rules that must either be there or have to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162526	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162528	So there's something I don't really understand. The basics, according to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen states that Danish legislation must apply in Denmark, but the European Convention on Human Rights is part of Danish legislation. So Danish legislation applies when we follow it. We can just resign from the Council of Europe, abolish our attachment and denounce the European Convention on Human Rights. We can do that tomorrow. There must probably be a period of time to make it work formally. But why is that not suggested? Because that's the only thing that can change that. When a majority here in the Folketing, elected by the Danish electorate, has decided that the European Convention on Human Rights is part of Danish legislation, then it is part of Danish legislation. Well, then, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen obtained a majority in order to adopt something else. It just takes you to resign, so why isn't it a proposal on what we're getting?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162642	After all, this is a purely procedural matter from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, who is now trying another way. Where it used to be that the sky fell into our heads, if you did this, it suddenly doesn't matter, because we're not going to say it directly and we're not going to say it this way with this proposal, but we're going to say that this is going to be written out. That is the proposal. It is, of course, that you write it out of Danish legislation, so you make sure that it is we who, as the proposal also proposes, decide more about how the course should be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162711	I'm gonna try again. So, a majority in the Danish Parliament has agreed that the European Convention on Human Rights is part of Danish legislation. It is so, whether it's written in or not, but it's a detail that I think we should keep out of this. It has a majority in this Parliament, and we take that as our basis. Therefore, Danish courts must also respect the decisions taken. If we do not want to do so, there is a very logical way of resolving it, and it is to resign from the Council of Europe and withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights. When this proposal comes from the Danish People's Party, what it will of course do at some point or other... and if it doesn't come from the Danish People's Party, it will come from New Citizens, and more and more parties will probably be involved in it... I can guarantee that we will repeat it there with that sky falling down. But that's just not what we're discussing now. What we are discussing, or at least the question I am asking, is: why is there not a proposal to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights and the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162814	Well, now we're suggesting that it be written out. This is the way the rules of the game are in a democracy, namely that we propose that this part be written out of Danish legislation, and that is the way it is. At the same time, there is work, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is certainly very interested in following where the government is in the process of seeing if you can change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162832	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162835	Is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen agrees that it is the Danish Parliament that decides whether we should be co-signators of the European Convention on Human Rights and that, as long as we are, it is part of Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162852	I have to say to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that the Folketing can make the decision that the Folketing wants. This is how democracy works. This also means that if there is a majority proposing that the Convention be written out of Danish legislation, a majority can do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162916	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has become a master of not answering, at all, the questions. I understand that it's a little uncomfortable for Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, for that, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen will not answer, is what is the politics of the Danish People's Party. Is it the policy of the Danish People's Party that Denmark should resign from the European Convention on Human Rights? And Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen has to answer again whether it is not the case that as long as Denmark is a signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights, Denmark must follow European human rights and the judgments of the Court of Human Rights, because that is part of Danish legislation. - Sir, you can. Peter Kofod Poulsen answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212162955	With the proposal here we then try to go a step backwards so roll it back in relation to constantly continuing this way just to put it into Danish law. That is what is in the proposal. That is to speak very plainly, and I really think that is a very honest answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163013	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163030	The negotiations have been opened. The first speaker is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163109	Thank you. Then we are here today with a completely new holiday law or at least a proposal for it. I'd say it's a really good day. It is a good day because many have long wanted a new holiday law, which is more flexible and more contemporary. At the same time, it is the social partners who have once again sat down and agreed on a model which we, as parties to the agreement here in the Folketing, have chosen to follow and which we are now discussing today. After all, we all know that most people are very excited about vacation, that is to say an opportunity to be with the people you love, family and friends, and not least to relax and charge the batteries. The importance of taking a holiday and being able to relax a little is not something we think about every day, but it means a lot to us people, who of course are part of the busy everyday life in the labour market, to come back with new energy and desire to make a difference. This applies not only to those of us who have been out there for many years as myself, but also to the young people who have just started working and to those who have been long-term ill or long-term unemployed and who return to work. They have to work for a whole year before they have the right to be paid holiday, and many of the young people have expenses like everyone else, and as new employees they do not necessarily always have the highest salary. That is why many of them choose not to take a holiday at all during the first year, and fortunately this law will correct that. It will be the case that we will have a new concept called a vacation at the same time. Everyone can have their holidays immediately in the future, so the group I talked about before doesn't have to wait a whole year, but can have holidays like the rest of us whenever they want. It will be based on the same basic principles and with the same profit. However, the holiday year is changed to go from September to August 31, so it fits into the holiday pattern that is today. At the same time, transitional arrangements have been made so that those who have been on the labour market during the transitional year and who have earned their holidays will have the simultaneous holiday and not the holiday they have earned last year. However, they do not miss that holiday and money because they are paid out once they leave the labour market. To return to my start, I think it is a really, really good day, because we have got a very good holiday law, which a very large majority across the parties actually agrees with. It is a good day because the new ones in the labour market are no longer in a difficult situation and cannot take a holiday for a whole year, and because the social partners have once again shown the Danish model at its best. They have come together and agreed on something on which they were very, very much agreed. At least I can see that because I've been in this system for a number of years. I think I have never seen the parties agree on anything as much as they are on this matter. I would also like to welcome the part that we in the Social Democratic Party were given in the agreement, namely that next year the pool of players will undertake to look at the missing crowns. The Crowns usually come to the Labour Market Holiday Fund due to this law, and they give disadvantaged families a good holiday experience. I look forward to this work so that we can see if we can get it back in, so that these families can still have a holiday experience, even if there are fewer crowns in the Labour Market Holiday Fund, because more will take a holiday. After all, we are all very happy that employees get the holiday and take the holiday they have earned. So in these words, the Social Democrats are very pleased with this bill. We look forward to it and, of course, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163444	Thank you. It just gave rise to one brief remark from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163449	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I share the rapporteur's satisfaction and satisfaction with the amendment to the holiday law, that is to say what is described in L 116, with all the good arguments used by the rapporteur himself. My question relates to the second legislative proposal that we are also discussing here, namely L 117. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that the consequence of this bill is that each employee is required to lend the five-week extra holiday money saved during the transitional period, just when the scheme is started, and to lend the money to employers for as long as 60 years, depending on when the employee concerned leaves the labour market. It will be a total loan for all employees to employers of approx. 75 billion kr., which employees are forced to lend to employers. It goes without saying that it will give employers the opportunity of a huge interest-rate advantage in that they can borrow the money for so long. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he does not think it is a quite high price to pay to employers. What have employers done since they seem to have earned a Christmas present on this scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163613	Now I'm looking at what that means for the individual employee. It is the case today that when I stop on the labour market in x number of years, I also get that vacation when I stop. For me as a person, there's no change compared to what we're doing. No change. Then I'll just have to say, sir. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten are also just trying to think a little about it, because if we tell employers to pay out all that money, that means about 72 billion. DKK to be paid in the transitional period. Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten really that we must impose on business for 1 year to pay 72 billion. kr.? And I mean, sir. Finn Sørensen is really saying that it will not mean the closure of any companies and that it will not mean anything to small and medium-sized enterprises? And that also amounts to some 40 billion dollars in the public sector. I just feel that I am something more responsible to society, not to companies, but to society. Should we really for one year impose it, in other words tell these employers and companies that they have to pay 72 billion? kr.? We can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163724	In fact, Enhedslisten does not think so either. I will come back to that when I have the floor and explain what we think a transitional period should be like. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is really necessary to give employers the interest rate advantage of 75 billion. kr. for very, very many years. For that means that as far as 2040 employers will have a total gain because they will also be compensated in some other way, somewhere between 1-2 billion. kr. a year, as far as 2040. It's gonna be a lot of money. That is the gain for employers. Is it really necessary to do so? Could it not have been possible to find a different transition period that was more reasonable so that the individual employee could actually get his money, because that is what we have to hold on to? We do agree that it is the employee's money. Why should employers be allowed to play with them for as long as 60 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163821	The most important thing for me is two things. The first point is that employees must continue to be able to take the holiday they are entitled to, and they can do so. The second point is that employees must also be able to obtain their money; so can they. Like today, they will be given them when they stop working, and they will continue to do so. In other words, I see no change or deterioration whatsoever in this respect for employees. What I am also really, really happy about is that the social partners, including employees' organisations, have agreed in these negotiations and have found this to be very, very good. So I do not share the concern that Mr. Finn Sørensen has, and I would still like to say the last word here, very much welcomed a new holiday legislation and congratulate the social partners with a very good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163902	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's the Danish People's Party, and that's Mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212163909	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party thinks this is a very good law. We have been working for many years to ensure that the holiday money earned by employees must of course also be paid to employees. That is why a number of years ago we also had a minimum amount of just over DKK 1,500. could be paid out without any problems at all. And we also succeeded in applying for up to 3,000 kroner. paid out. There we were told at the time that the European Union made it impossible to ensure that more was paid out. Now the European Union also has something to say about changing our holiday system. In this context, they say that you must have four weeks to take a holiday, and the last week you can then be paid if you have not held it before 1 September. So right now, we are actually in a situation where the European Union says that we could actually pay more than they said a few years ago, so things tend to change. But we think this is a very good arrangement. It is a change in the whole holiday year, so you get your vacation earned while working. You earn 2.08 days per day. In other words, they start earning vacation in the first year. Today it is the case that you can only take a holiday after a whole year, once you have earned a holiday, so it is a clear improvement. We must also say that when we look at the way in which the holiday can be taken, we can see that it is the case that you can also have this extra week transferred to the following year, or get it paid. We think that's really good. The entry into force will then be 1 September 2020 with full phasing-in on 1 September 2021, because the entire holiday year will be moved from 1 September to 31 August. All in all, however, we believe that this will be a very good system for employees and we will ensure that they receive virtually all the money. I think something was said about the fact that 99.5% could be expected. of them came out. And that is why we are very pleased with it, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mentioned that there should be a look at those who are taking holiday under the rate pool, i.e. that you should of course ensure that they can be helped. And we fully support that, that is, what the Social Democratic Party got into there. So all in all, we actually think it is a very good proposal and we look forward to further consideration. Of course, we must also remember to say that it is a good job the social partners have done in redefining the holiday law. I think everyone can be satisfied with that. So we think everything else is equal, it's a good thing. It is also taken into account that a fund is being set up which the holiday money goes into and where you can then help those who have got a little caught up. It could be if you have been away from the labour market, for example, if you have been away from the labour market. has been ill and has not been able to take the holiday entirely, and then you can get the money from the fund where the holiday money is to go in. It is a little special, that is, that there may be some who may be in the labour market, but come into a situation where they have not just earned that holiday during the transitional year. I think that is a very good thing too, that is to say, those who may get into trouble are taken into account. The Danish People's Party naturally supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164315	Thank you. And that gave rise to a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164319	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur is satisfied that the five-week holiday allowance of each employee, which is saved extra when the scheme is started, is frozen with the employer in the employer's capital stock for as long as 60 years, depending on when the employee leaves the labour market. Is the Danish People's Party also satisfied with this arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164350	If I have understood correctly and of course it may be that Mr. Finn Sørensen does not think that I am in a position to set up a special fund, namely the Employees' Fund for Receiving Holidays, which is given the task of managing the holiday money that people have for the benefit of, that is, the funds frozen. And the fund is set up under the wage-earners' Animal Time Fund, which is responsible for the Fund's tasks. There is a transition to a simultaneous holiday and there is an employer's report on holiday entitlements and the fund will pay holiday entitlements regulated by an annual subscription to the individual employee when the person concerned reaches the retirement age or leaves the labour market for other reasons. We accept that as a matter of fact. It's fine. We cannot just say that now we have to double the holiday money in one month. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen wants 72-75 billion to be dumped. kr. I think it would be economically irresponsible to throw out all that money at once. It's even more than the Liberal Alliance wants in tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164455	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164457	The Danish People's Party does not know anything about what Enhedslisten will propose by transitional arrangements. It will be revealed in a moment. Then the rapporteur will not only be concerned with the fact that the fund and the law around it have been put together in such a way that the employers who do not pay to the Holiday Account or to a holiday fund can choose the 5 weeks extra holiday money even for up to 60 years. That is what it is all about: Each employee is therefore forced to borrow his employer five weeks' holiday money for up to 60 years. This means, according to the Holiday Law Committee's own calculations, that private employers receive approx. 75 billion kr. to play with for up to 60 years. One does not need to be the world champion of the main bill to see that it provides a huge interest rate advantage to employers for the simple reason that they only have to guarantee that the holiday money provided to them follows the wage trend. So there is a really good gain for employers, and I just need to hear the Danish People's Party whether they think it is reasonable to give employers such a huge Christmas present?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164609	I think it's a little hard to give Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen is a correct answer, because we know that Mr. Finn Sørensen believes that employers are the bad guys and they must be punished. Sir. Finn Sørensen also does not see the problem of an employer paying holiday money twice in a year, but there are many small businesses that would then have to close down. So that means that if we're going to follow what Mr. Finn Sørensen will, then, many of the small companies that do not have the capital to be able to pay holiday money twice in a year will close. We in the Danish People's Party do not want to do that; we would rather keep jobs and ensure that employees have jobs and that they can spend their holidays as they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164652	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164658	Thank you. In the Left we are pleased that we are blowing the dust of the 80-year-old law, because the old holiday system was both complex and unreasonable. That is why it is also a complex piece of work that the Holiday Law Committee has been through so that they deserve a pat on their shoulders for a thorough job. The details of the proposals have already been explained, so I would just like to clarify the position of the Left. In the Left, we support the proposals we are debating here today, because they ensure, first and foremost, that we meet EU requirements and they will also create a much more flexible, fair and transparent holiday law. Whether you are new or fit in the labour market, you need to take a vacation. That is why it is only right that we should give new people and returnees to the labour market the right to paid leave from the first working day. The transition to contemporary holidays means that it will be much easier for employees to navigate in the holiday system, because with the new rules, almost nothing more than adding two and two together: one month's work will provide 2.08 holiday days, which can be used as early as next month. It has to be easy and simple to take a vacation, and it will be with this proposal. Then I welcome the fact that the proposal attacks the absurdity of the problem; it is that many Danes lose their own holiday money every year because they get lost in a form jungle. That is why I also believe that everything else equal is fair and good, that holiday money now gets a easier way down into the pockets of workers and taxpayers. Finally, I shall be very brief as regards the second part of the proposal, namely the management and administration of holiday allowances receivable, because it is of course gratifying that a solution has been found which benefits all parties. Employees are guaranteed holiday allowances, without all this entailing a higher cost to employers. So all in all, I am convinced that the proposals ensure a modern and flexible holiday law that takes account of both employees, employers and EU requirements. That is why the Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164922	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212164936	Thank you. It is very good that in future employees will be able to take paid holidays in the year in which they save holiday money. This ensures that all new people entering the labour market every year also have the opportunity to take a holiday in the same year in which they save holiday money. This also means that employees generally receive their holiday money much faster than with the current system, where employers have a significant interest rate advantage from having their employees' money for longer. It is just a pity that this is being done on the basis of criticism from the European Commission. We should be able to find out for ourselves, but better late than never. With regard to the new holiday law itself, i.e. L 116, I would like to say that the Holiday Law Committee and the subsequent government have done the job very well. It was then also an easy task for the government, for it had to write a good solution. It should not be reproached for this, because it is no easy matter to move from one system to another, but it will work without generally weakening workers' current rights and, on the whole, it will be possible to maintain the current holiday pattern. And that's really good. Having said that, however, there are a few points of attention in relation to L 116, just as there are some consultation answers which we do not think have been adequately answered. But we will come back to that with written questions in committee. This does not alter the fact that we see L 116 as an overall clear improvement and strengthening of employees' rights, so we vote in favour of that bill. We do not have the same positive approach to L 117, the draft law establishing the Employees' Fund for Receiving Holiday Resources. It is not the fund as such that we are opposed to, although the whole structure seems very bureaucratic. Some transitional arrangement is probably needed, and here a fund such as the proposed can be part of the solution ■ more about it later. However, we strongly disagree with the rules governing the savings made during the transitional period. After all, this is an additional five-week holiday allowance, which will be saved in the first year of the scheme's entry into force, which totals approximately 85 billion. kr. Here it is proposed in L 117 that this money be frozen and only paid out when the employee leaves the labour market, typically at retirement age. And those companies which do not pay into the holiday account or into a holiday fund may be allowed to keep the employee's holiday money until that happens. This means, of course, that if the Folketing adopts L 117, the Folketing instructs employees to grant these employers a compulsory loan of about 75 billion. kr. for up to 60 years. These are not figures that Enhedslisten makes up; all of this can be read in the draft law and in the report of the Committee on Holidays. Mr President, I should like to make a comment on this. Leif Lahn Jensen, who said that it is just the way it is today. No, it's not like that today. There are no rules today that say that the employer can manage the employee's holiday money for up to 60 years. Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen very well. The current holiday scheme works in a completely different way. In addition to this, I would like to say that it is quite gross that the Folketing will in this way force the employee to borrow his holiday money to the employer for such a long time, so that it will give the employer a huge gain which arises from the fact that employees are only paid their holiday money with wage developments, whereas employers can go out on the market and have a significantly higher return on employees' money. We have calculated this on the basis of the information contained in the legislative proposal and in the report, and we have come to the conclusion that this represents a gain of between 20 and 30 billion. kr. overall, depending on the rate of interest used. There we have then used the two possible interest rates contained in the report. We simply cannot understand why it should be necessary to give employers such a huge Christmas present; but they are neither homeless nor affected by the ceiling on cash benefits nor 225-hour rule. Nor are they exposed to a bad working environment that wears them down long before time, so that they never reach either early retirement or an ever higher retirement age. On the contrary, that group in society has, in general, been gilded with one tax reduction after the other over the last 10 to 15 years, while they have generally served with money in the crisis. This princely gift to employers becomes even more incomprehensible when you look at the fact that not only do they benefit from the workers' holiday money for a very long time, but they are also compensated in other ways in the head and so it is designed to a certain extent so that they do not have any cost whatsoever for the transition to the new holiday law. The additional compensation consists of deferred tax, covering the employer's expenses to the ATP and to the Employees' Guarantee Fund. It will also be a huge amount of billions which employees will then be allowed to pay through the tax ticket. Why do employers need to be so lubricated in order to contribute to something that, in any case, had to be implemented because we have to live up to an EU directive? So we really do miss an answer to that. Instead, it is presented as if employers have a great loss as a result of the transition to the new system. No, they have no new expenses and therefore no loss. They are simply losing an entirely unjustified advantage that they have enjoyed in a few human ages or three, namely the possibility of profiting from keeping employees' holiday money until they have to be paid out. All this talk of loss and compensation and punishment to the employer only serves to distract attention from that fact. As a matter of principle, on the one hand, employees should have paid the five-week extra saved holiday money immediately, because that is their money. On the other hand, we recognise that an immediate payment of 85 billion is being made. kr. I am sure that some pressure would be exerted on wages, employment and welfare in a negative direction, so we are in favour of some transitional arrangement for public and private employers to have time to adapt to the new reality. An appropriate model could be for the frozen holiday allowance to be paid on leaving the undertaking or by 2025 at the latest, a transitional period of five years. This would be a reasonable and appropriate time for companies and society to adapt to it. We could also be open to other transitional models, but it is probably too much to hope that we can get a majority for such a thing. If there were to be an opportunity for a debate on this, then we would very much like to enter into it with an open mind. But as it stands, we are voting against L 117, but we are voting in favour of L 116.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165621	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165626	I fully agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen in that it is quite unreasonable that employers should have the money of employees and thus have such a cheap loan. Should we not take and abolish the holiday money system and let people get their own money immediately, because then we would have solved the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165646	No, we're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165652	The questioner for new questions? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165702	Thank you. The reason for setting up this holiday law committee, which had to find a model for a new Danish holiday law, was that the European Commission found that Danish legislation was contrary to EU law. But if you dive a little bit into it and see what is actually in the Working Time Directive, it is very difficult to see at least for me that there should be something wrong with our Holiday Act, because the Working Time Directive says about holidays: the Member States take the necessary measures to ensure that all workers receive an annual paid holiday of at least four weeks' duration in accordance with the criteria for obtaining and awarding such leave laid down in national legislation and/or practice. • When the EU system can then find that the above is contrary to the holiday law, it shows that the European legal system is fundamentally different from the Danish one, and that the European Court of Justice plays a very active role in the interpretation of the law here. In fact, I believe that one of the main reasons why many Danes and Europeans have a rather strained relationship with the EU system is that decisions are taken in this way. Because no one has known that the Danish holiday system was ignored when the Working Time Directive was adopted, because there is nothing in the text about simultaneousness. That is why there has been no debate and no such real political decision-making. It's just a task of duty that suddenly hits Denmark. Having said that, we think, of course, that simultaneous holidays, where holidays are earned and held in the same year, are quite excellent. It is very illogical, as it is today, that you can earn holiday money in January, which you can only spend after the next 1 May. So simultaneous vacation is a clear improvement for employees, especially in the context of entry into the labour market. Today, employers benefit greatly from being allowed to keep what is basically employees' money for a longer period of time. An agreement has just had to be based on the fact that employers today have the relatively large advantage. So, for example, you reach... We have had to make an agreement in which employees' backward paid holidays can be held for years by employers, so it is not very pretty, but it is necessary. It is essential to take account of the fact that companies know the conditions on which they act and that they do not change much. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yeah, there was just one one here. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212165942	Thank you. I will not try to convince the rapporteur of my view on the question of how long employers should be allowed to keep that money, but I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur admits that it is not particularly pretty to look at. So thank you for that realization. It would have been nice if at least one and preferably two of the previous rapporteurs had at least acknowledged that it is not very pretty. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170008	You're welcome. It's always a little funny to get praise from Enhedslisten, but it's actually enough that we don't think it's particularly pretty. But we find it difficult to see another solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170017	However, this could only turn into one question or a thank-you, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170032	Thank you. The alternative supports L 116 and L 117, which provide a framework for the new holiday law. We note that it is actually the European Union that has set this process in motion, and we note in particular that it is the social partners who have drafted the new law. As several rapporteurs have said, this law means that employees can have holidays from the start of employment, i.e. simultaneous holidays, but it also means that, in order to counteract the loss of cash on the part of employers, employers will be given up to 60 years in which they will be able to keep the savings until the employee leaves the labour market. We very much agree that it would have negative consequences for some companies, for example. Instead, the 72 billion had to be paid out. kr., which is saved in the company's liquidity, during e.g. 1 year. This would probably be particularly a challenge for the smaller companies with overdrafted credit, which saves up for wages every month. Whether it takes 5, 10, 20 or 60 years before the employer can no longer store the savings, one can discuss long-term issues. Here it is crucial for us that the social partners have not least the employees' representatives have sat at the table and negotiated this great puzzle in place. And when, in the context of detailed and complex negotiations, they have chosen to give companies a period of 60 years to be able to retain the savings in holiday money, then the alternative backs up that decision. This means that, after a transitional period, we Danes are given a modern holiday law, where we get money for the holiday from the start of our employment instead of having to wait 1 year, and that the alternative is pleasing. However, we think that there is a problem, and that is that, as people spend their holiday money more, less money comes from the Labour Market Holiday Fund, and that money has been used to give poor and vulnerable Danish families an opportunity to go on holiday anyway. That is why, from the outset, I think that is the first thing I said on the radio when I was interviewed about this, and I also said to the first negotiating meeting that we would like to see the money being found in the pool funds next year, so that a kind of end is set for a big calculation which we actually think the social partners have figured out well. So we support both laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170250	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170252	Thank you. It is a little inspired by the previous rapporteur, who was on the platform: Well, what is Mr. Torsten Gejl's view that employees are being forced to lend employers holiday money for up to 60 years? What's sir? Torsten Gejl's attitude on that? Does he think it looks pretty?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170317	I don't really give points for the artistic design. What I am looking at is that there has been talk of negotiations with an incredible amount of detail. And I can see that employees themselves have chosen to accept this scheme. That is actually why I support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170338	Yes, sir, but now it's sir. Torsten Gejl here in the Danish Parliament and, according to the Constitution, is required to take a personal position on the legislative proposals we are considering. Sir. Torsten Gejl is not going to vote on the position of employees or the position of employers, Mr. Torsten Gejl, like all of us, is going to vote on the legislative proposals that lie here. And it is we, as representatives of our parties and our electorate, who must take a position. So I guess it's very natural that I ask: what is Mr. Torsten Gejl's position on the solution that has now been chosen? Is that a good solution? Is this a fair solution for employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170420	I think it is really, really good that the liquidity advantage is being phased out. Now, sir. Finn Sørensen asked other rapporteurs: why should employers play with the money that is citizens' holiday money? One might also ask: why should Mr. Finn Sørensen? Because when it is the case that the social partners come up with such a clear agreement and the employees are so much in favour of it, then it is not the case that I just have a blank screen and that I just nod nod whatever, that is to say, it is for me and for the alternative a clue. It really is, because we know that such negotiations have had an incredible number of elements. And if you just look at one and pick it out, maybe there are some other negotiating things you should pick out too. So we have respect for the balance created by this agreement, and there is a clear guide for us by employee organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170520	The next question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170523	I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the alternative how important the rapporteur thinks the holiday law is in general for the social partners and whether the rapporteur does not think it is extremely important. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur for the Alternative, if he is not able to confirm that, contrary to the Enhedslisten, the alternative actually recognises the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170548	I also have a bit of an upshot today. I think it's a big day too. I think it is amazing that we are giving people an opportunity to enjoy a vacation at the same time. Well, when you have a job, why do you have to wait a year for it? As to whether Enhedslisten recognises the Danish model, I would say that I find that difficult to judge. I don't really hear Finn Sørensen say that you don't, but I hear Finn Sørensen say that there are details in it that aren't good enough. And that is contrary to our conviction. We think that when the social partners have spoken so clearly in this matter, we are following it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170640	Thank you. When I was going to be on the platform earlier and I still think it is worth noting that it is not so often that this happens I asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party if I could not get the rapporteur's speech paper. It turned out that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party had no speaking paper at all; he had just made an excellent speech. So I would like to pay tribute and acknowledge and say that I fully agree with that speech. I think there were a lot of good arguments and details. We're getting a new vacation law now. That's what every employee gets. Everyone is also entitled to a holiday for the first year on the labour market. When I started on the labour market many years ago, no one understood why that was not the case. We now finally have a holiday law where you have the right to vacation also for the first year on the labour market. And I think that, compared to all this talk about beauty, it's a really, really fine example of what the Danish model can do. The Holiday Law Committee has worked hard on the basis of a recommendation from the European Union and a dialogue also that way around. It must match what kind of labour market we have in Denmark. That dialogue has taken place. It's taken time. And there has now been a proposal on which we have reached an agreement on which the parties agree and which they have found. For the individual employee, this means improving the conditions. You have the right to vacation when you start working. That is the basis of this, and that is why, like the previous rapporteur, I think it is very, very good. I am very pleased that we have succeeded; that dialogue across national and European levels has succeeded with the social partners, so that we can get through things that will work for employees and improve conditions in Denmark in a way that will allow everyone to participate. I think that's really nice and worth celebrating.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170927	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212170936	Holiday rules, as we have them today, are a mess. This means, among other things, that many do not have the economy to take their first vacation, and that is why the European Union should be thankful that they now got kicked to the anthill, so we got things changed here in Denmark, but it was also about time. It is actually amazing that we should go and wait for the European Union to ask us to do so. Over the years, the discussion about holiday money has been popping up all the time. On one occasion, it might be about whether employers should not just take to pay the holiday money together with the salary, so that the individual should save himself, but then there is a great risk that many will not get it done and therefore do not have the money on the day of the holiday. Another element of that would be that the employer would lose some liquidity by having to pay the holiday money immediately, and over the ages we have discussed the challenge of a lot of holiday money not being paid out but being picked up and spent for other good purposes, but thus not to the wage worker who actually earned them. As I said, there are a lot of good reasons to revolutionize the running of holidays, and these many pieces must fit together in a new puzzle, and in this border country between agreements on the labour market and legislation in the Folketing we are so well placed in Denmark that we have solid professional organisations on both sides of the table on the labour market. The proposal for a new system has been put together by the very professional organizations which enjoy legitimacy in their hinterland. The balance has been found and the trade union movement supports the proposal, including the system of the Employees' Fund for Receiving Holiday Resources. Against this background, the SF can support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171136	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. It can't be true). Sir. Finn Sørensen works with the buttons, I see. But I also stayed standing, I was sure there were some comments). I do not really know if a blockade had been put in that I could not really get to). It was worth a try. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171157	I do not know whether or not it is the Minister who has taken care of it. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Is Mr. Karsten Hønge agrees that the fact that the social partners reach some agreement does not necessarily mean that we must then transpose it exactly into law in here, insofar as it requires legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171223	Well, that's right. Surely we are not such an expedition office, which at all times and always simply passes on the proposals. There you have to decide on it from time to time, but as I see it here, it is all professional organisations on both sides who think this is a good idea. If there were any leading organisations that thought it was really bad, I would consider what to do. But here it is quite dominating that the people who actually represent both parties agree to it, and in that situation I think it is a good idea to follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171255	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171257	I'm glad to hear that, sir. Karsten Hønge's answer, that is, the part of what is about us not being an expedition office. We have a duty and a right as members of the Folketing, to the extent that legislation is to be made, to take up an independent position. Well, then I'd like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge: What is Mr. Karsten Hønge's attitude? I understand that the rapporteur supports both legislative proposals, but what is Mr. Karsten Hønge's position on the solution that has been found about the frozen holiday money? Did Mr. Karsten Hønge an opinion on the content of the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171349	Well, the employers have the money today too. Today there is, after all, a system in which employers have the money until the holidays are held, and with regard to the discussion about whether, by being able to pay the money immediately, we are also drawing on the cash flow of employers, we have the same result, i.e. the same result. The very fact that employers have the money, and so do they today. That is why I think this is the best thing to achieve in relation to the mess we have today, and I must admit that I do not have the opinion that the Folketing is forcing something down on the employees. We don't. It is the employees' negotiators who are asking us to take this decision, and then I think it is just too arrogant for me if, as Enhedslisten is doing here, you put yourself up with an old habit, perhaps with an educational finger to everyone else, that you have found all the stones of the show yourself, and now you will try to tell the employees what they really have best of, and by the way, just say that the representatives elected by the employees are not worth five... ears. I do not have that attitude. I think we should respect the representatives elected by the workers and not stand up to the organisations which, moreover, have great legitimacy in their hinterland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171458	There's another questioner. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171502	Speaking of the fact that you should not be better informed about employees and tell them what is best for them, could you not let people keep their own money instead of the state coming and taking it away from them and then decide that they should be put into a holiday account?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171516	It is, of course, as I mentioned in my speech, a discussion that has been held many times over the years, in which some have argued for it, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov does, but you have to take a look at reality, and it's just that it will cause a lot of problems in a lot of families, where you just wouldn't be able to save, where you're tense and where you spend the holiday money before you get to the holiday, and then there's just not a clown to take a vacation for with the kids. I don't see it as knowing better. I see it as in many other contexts that we take into account what the social interest is. It is also backed up by the people whom the workers have chosen to represent them. But I know the argument, and you could do it. I just think it's a bad decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171559	There are other items of expenditure where it is even worse if you do not get saved. It is also quite disastrous if you do not get saved up for your rent, for example, or if you cannot afford clothes or Christmas gifts or anything else. According to the SF, should you also make arrangements where you have a special Christmas gift account or clothing account, where you take a percentage of people's wages and put them in, and then let them get it paid if they go down to the municipality and get proof that they are actually celebrating Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171631	I really do not think that there is any reason, as I sense Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is doing this, making fun of families who can be very tense to economics, such a mockery of them a little, as I hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov do by saying: Oh, fuck, you can't find out how to save up for clothes in a month. People are either 14-day or monthly. I think most families can, but it is a very dramatic thing if a family is faced with the fact that it is now the holiday there, and then you just lack money over the year to 5 weeks. I do not think we can quite compare it. Perhaps some of Enhedslisten's a little bit of a better-known way has been infected, and I do not really like it very much in the eyes of those people who, by the way, can be tense to economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171710	With that, we thank the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171723	We reluctantly support these changes to the holiday money system. Basically, the holiday money system is rather juks; it is a bureaucratic, paternalistic system which is a nuisance for both citizens and businesses. It indicates that you want to take some of the people's money, put the money into an account, and then they can get the money paid out if they go down to the municipality and can prove that they are on vacation. Imagine if we used that thinking towards other expenses too. What if we told people that it is important that you make sure you have money for Christmas gifts or that it is important that you can afford your clothes or your rent, and then we have to create an account for Christmas gifts, clothes and rent, and then you can only get paid out the part of the money that you have otherwise earned, if the state allows, and if you can go down and fill out an application that justifies your money going to exactly the purpose that we politicians think the money should go to. It will be very strange, and therefore it is also very strange that people in the Folketing cannot see how paternal and strange it is that we are so knowledgeable towards people that we believe that we should take 121⁄2 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. In my view, this is one of the worst arrangements, and it should be obvious that it should be abolished, because it would benefit the citizens, and that would be an expression of respect for people being able to manage their own money better than we politicians can. It would also ease companies for a lot of trouble so that they would not have to sit and watch how much they owe in holiday money because payments are staggered. It would also go beyond the problem raised by Enhedslisten, namely that companies are really being given a free loan at the expense of employees, in which case there is little justification. We cannot then get a majority in favour of this, and then we must vote in favour of this tiny improvement in a bureaucratic monster, and we see this as a necessity, but basically we think that the system should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171934	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212171935	Thank you. It is just to understand the rapporteur's position, because I think the rapporteur made a lot of arguments for the Conservatives to vote against everything, and I just ask: from the Conservatives' point of view, that there should not be a holiday scheme at all, what is the progress, from the Conservatives' point of view? I don't understand. Because if you have to say something good about the compromise made in the Holiday Law Committee, and I would like to do so; the reality is that the agreement reached in the Holiday Law Committee will make the arrangement that is being made here stand for a very, very many years, which means that the Conservatives will probably never be able to tamper with it. So where is the improvement for the Conservatives who want to do away with it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172036	One might well follow the strategy of trying to make the system as bad and chaotic as possible, so as to hope that at some point it collapsed. This is not a strategy we use at Conservatives. There we take the improvements we can now get, and here it is necessary to make this small improvement to the system in order to put it right in relation to EU rules. So that's why we do it. And we are still working away for the abolition of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172104	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172105	Okay, so it all narrows down to the fact that the Conservatives, who in many circumstances over recent years have been very critical of the European Union, for example. in relation to something about child support; I remember that we discussed this quite fervently in the Danish Parliament a few years ago. The only reason that remains is that the Conservatives want to correct the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172128-2	Yeah, that's the main reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172136	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172137	It's fine that we're discussing this, and then we can discuss it a little more, now compared to L 117. That is to say, the Conservatives would like to see it if it were to follow the wishes of the Conservatives, as I hear it, that all the employees in the transitional system should have their money, and that was fine. Is that what I hear the Conservative rapporteur say, that is, if it is to be perfect in relation to the Conservatives' position?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172159	The perfect thing would be for you to get paid 121⁄2%. of his salary immediately, instead of being put into a holiday account.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172212	In this case, of course, it will be during the transition period, and then the Conservative People's Party is so ready to tell businesses that they have to find 70 billion. kr. extra that year. Is that what I'm hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172224	Well, we're not changing the holiday money system in the way we wanted. Now we are making such a technical change and we need to find funding for the bill that is here. However, we would like to abolish the system and, of course, this will mean that the money will be paid out immediately, and that, of course, will also mean that, in the short term, there will be a liquidity challenge for businesses. But you could find a solution to that, sometime, I'm sure. It would save a lot of administration and there are many small companies that would be extremely happy that they should not sit and administer such a foolish system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172259	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172300	Thank you. It's a little weird to listen to that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says that Conservatives are so opposed to this proposal, but that you vote in favour. I just want to know from Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Jarlov: When Conservatives are so against this proposal and that's fair enough, is the reason why you vote in favour of it being an agreement that the government has made and that, of course, as part of the government, you have to vote in favour of those proposals? Is that why we are voting in favour of this proposal? And if you had not been in government, you would have voted against, but because it is an agreement that the government has made, of which Conservatives are also a part, you will, of course, vote in favour and support the ministers that you have? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172348-2	Well, we don't think there's anything wrong with the proposal. We would just rather abolish the holiday money system. But that is not what we are voting on. In other words, we are voting on whether we should make a small improvement to the system or whether we should not make a small improvement to the system. Unfortunately, we are not voting on whether the system should be abolished. So we think it is a small improvement, and we are also voting for small improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172411	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and we will therefore move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172427	Thank you for that, and thank you for the consideration of the two legislative proposals we are discussing here, namely L 116 and L 117, which are based on a broad political agreement that all employees should be entitled to paid holidays, new holiday arrangements with a simultaneous effect. And those, I think, very many fine and good rapporteur speakers, who have been held in a wide range of different shades, all tend to confess to what is quite unique and has been developed over many years in Denmark, namely the Danish model, where the social partners can sit down and help find solutions to deeply complicated problems, and then as a government you can discuss it with the political parties at Christiansborg. There have been several outcomes in this regard, but the truth is that, depending on how you view it politically, there is reason to sign for the very, very fine committee work that has been done between the social partners in a matter, which several rapporteurs also mentioned, which has an even very great economic significance for Danish companies, both in terms of liquidity, but also in relation to the fact that we would like to amend our holiday law, so that it will take account of Denmark's international obligations and also get right the challenge we have faced in relation to the EU issue. It was, of course, the case that it was a unanimous Committee on Vacation Law which returned its report in August of this year. We have dealt with this politically, and it is quite satisfactory that, in such a complex area, a political consensus can be reached with such a broad majority in this Parliament as soon thereafter. There are not so many other parliaments where we see it, and this also shows that if you have done a thorough piece of work, it is not because the politicians are just eating out of hand, as I may think Mr. Finn Sørensen, by mistake, was about to say, but then it may also be because one listens to a balanced compromise proposal being made, because in fact there are some who can also be as talented as us who sit here in Christiansborg but who are not equipped with a legislative power. And that's the discussion you can have. It is clear that you can always discuss whether the Danish model means whether you have to eat what is served to you or whether you can also order some accessories for what might come on the table. This is always a political balance. In any case, in the context in which we are discussing this very difficult legal complex, I would like to say that I think there is reason to be glad that we are now implementing the recommendations that have been made. I do not intend to go into detail on the legislative proposal itself, which can of course be read, and which several rapporteurs have also examined, but what I think is important is that the two legislative proposals are balanced, both in order to ensure that employers can see themselves in a new model with respect for the transition that will be, but also in order to ensure that employees in this context are given much better conditions than have been the case before, and with respect for their being able to see themselves in the new model. So basically there is reason to welcome the first reading we have today. We are also having a fight with what many people have said, which has filled a lot in the debate, at least in the political debate, namely about holidays and, above all, non-enforced holiday money, and we are ensuring that people are practically always in the position of receiving the holiday money they have paid and having a fight with some of the absurdities that have existed in the old system, and it is also to me that it is a great and important political gain. Then, of course, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, we come in another context to deal with the positive problem of people getting more holiday money themselves, which means that the consequence of that is that there are not so many non-emphasised holiday money, and this has such an impact on the Labour Market Holiday Fund. We have also given a political signal from the government that we will be discussing this, not least in relation to the rate-pool negotiations that will take place next year. It is clear that because you are doing something that is good for some, it should not end up being bad for some others, and I think that was Mr. Torsten Gejl's point is that he wanted to reflect on it. I think it has to be said that there has been a broad political consensus on finding a solution for the Labour Market Holiday Fund as well. With this, I would like to acknowledge the broad political support and, above all, the very good speeches that have been made here at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172932	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212172935	Thank you. I saw the Minister in this way that, in principle, he agrees with Enhedslisten that the Danish model cannot be interpreted as meaning that the Folketing is a handling office for what the social partners might conclude agreements. We must listen to it and we all do so, but we, as members of the Danish Parliament, also have our duty to deal with the individual elements ourselves, and that is just what my questions have been about, namely to clarify whether the individual rapporteur had a specific position on exactly the element of the whole package that Enhedslisten seems problematic. I do not want to ask the Minister that. I would like to ask the Minister something quite different. In view of the fact that we in the Danish Parliament agree, each with a slightly different temperament, that when we deal with these legislative proposals, it is in recognition that we have not been in line with the EU Working Time Directive, my question is: what if some employee thinks he has been cheated of a right which is reflected in the directive that was adopted many years ago? Where, then, should he correct his demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173047	Thank you. If I am to start with the Danish model, I can say that the Danish model can never ever develop into, if you may say so, a pork roast model that you get put on the table and have to eat, and that you are not allowed to order asier or red cabbage for. As a matter of principle, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott on this point. Finn Sørensen in. Now, as a general rule, I do not agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen about so much - at least not down to the detail - but overall, of course, the Danish Parliament has the legislative power, and you can't outsource it. Even if it might be nice to do it, you can't do it. But on the other hand, I also think that if you are going to have a Danish model, you should also believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen is not standing in the kitchen touching the wrong pots. It can also be killing for someone to serve a pork roast at all. I think you should be a little careful about letting Mr. Finn Sørensen stands in that kitchen, for it can become a real greedy experience that actually doesn't carry anywhere. In relation to the second question, I think it is best to answer it in writing. I would like to return to the whole question of EU law in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173154	I am not going to prolong the debate. What is important is that we agree that, as members of the Folketing, we have an obligation to decide for ourselves on the agreements which the social partners may make and submit to us, for the simple reason that it is the 179 members of the Folketing who make the legislation and that they then have an obligation to do so. I have to come back with a written question, although I am a little surprised that the Minister cannot answer that question. For we have received answers in the past to the kind of question where the answer is that it is the state that is liable for the claim until the moment when legislation has been put in place where the claim had to be placed elsewhere. That is what you do here, in the form of a fund and all the rules you make. However, does the Minister not agree that EU rules are such that it is the Danish state that is responsible for the proper implementation of EU directives, to put it that way, and so it must also be the state, to which an employee who is experiencing an injury should be required in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173304	The good thing about politics is that there is never anything as good as asking a question to which you know the answer, and when there is no reason to ask it, and that is why I have quite a lot of respect when Mr. Finn Sørensen asks questions. Because it's kind of like moving into a zoo where there may be some dangerous animals, and that's why I think it's a good idea to answer Mr. Finn Sørensen in writing. And that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173327	With that, we thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173343	The debate is open and we will remain on the same street, because I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173411	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss the resolution here today, which in many ways, I think, is an important debate that is being raised. This is, of course, primarily an opportunity to explain the government's priorities in relation to the current negotiations in this area. It is, of course, the case that we are currently having a discussion on the regulation called 883, to which I shall return. With the motion for a resolution tabled, the proposers want us to legislate in Denmark so that the daily allowance is indexed to the price level in the EU country where an allowance recipient seeks work. Although I fully share the desire for fair and fair EU rules and I also fundamentally sympathise with the idea behind the proposal, I also note that the comments on the proposal show that the proposal is in all likelihood in breach of EU rules. The government takes the view that we choose to work to change the unfairness of existing EU rules, and I believe that is basically the best way to change things. The European Union cannot function if the Member States unilaterally change their own rules in violation of EU rules. It also emerges from the comments on the proposal that a possible case against Denmark would be an excellent opportunity to highlight the problem of exports of high benefits to EU countries with low cost of living. I have to say here that it is therefore not the government's policy to seek cases before the European Court of Justice in order to draw attention to unfairness in EU rules. This is not the model that I think is sensible, and it is also a model that I would advise against. We prefer to change our rules at the negotiating table together with other like-minded EU countries, and it is also at the negotiating table that the best chance is for us to change EU rules to make them more reasonable. I would also like to say that the focus of the government is in the ongoing negotiations for a change to what is called Regulation 883, and it is no more than a few days ago that, in particular last week, I had the pleasure of being again involved in the negotiations in Brussels. This is a regulation that coordinates social services in the European Union, and the government has clearly had a number of clear priorities here from the start of the negotiations. The government has among other things: It is clear that we want to introduce an opportunity to index child benefit to adapt it to the cost of living in the Member State in which the child lives. We think that's super fair. That was also the agreement with Britain in the European Council of February 2016, which was agreed at that time. Another of our priorities is to look at the rules governing the export of daily allowances, which means that you can take unemployment benefits with you when you apply for a job in another EU country. The government does not believe that it makes any sense at all to extend the export period from 3 to 6 months, as proposed by the Commission. We would like it to be shorter than it is today, and we have worked for and are still working away to gain support for that line in other EU countries, and it is my clear impression that several countries share the Danish views here. I also think it is worth pointing out that the Commission, among other things, is in favour. according to Danish proposals and our efforts have suggested that in future you should have worked and been insured for 3 months before you can have access to a country's daily allowance. It is, in fact, only common sense. This will make Danish practice EU rules, which we can be happy about, and we can also be said to note with satisfaction. On the other hand, I do not believe that there is any prospect of finding support among the other EU countries for indexing the daily allowance, to put it perfectly as it is. The government is working hard to make it possible to index child pay to children living in another country, but that is another matter. Unlike a child living in another EU country with a different price level, a benefit recipient seeking work in another EU country will often have housing and family costs in Denmark. These costs will be the same during the export period. The two situations are therefore difficult to compare immediately. In conclusion, however, I must say that the government is very concerned that we are putting in place in the negotiations where there is really an opportunity to rectify the current rules. This means that we are working to define the possibility of taking Danish unemployment benefits out of the country as much as possible and also to tighten up the employment requirement before there is access to unemployment benefits in Denmark. The primacy of EU rules must be removed. The government is super absorbed by this, and we have clear priorities, as we can see, for where influence and change can be sought. This must be done in cooperation with the Commission and the other Member States, that goes without saying. If Denmark withdraws from the cooperation and goes its own way just to make an example, then we risk being marginalised in the important negotiations that will take place during 2018. Although we have already begun these negotiations, they are entering their final phase during 2018. There I would like to stress that we are fighting in every way for the priorities that we have also presented in the European Committee of Parliament, and are trying to get them through, although I must not hide the fact that it will be difficult and difficult political negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173935	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212173941	The Minister says that you cannot vote for this proposal because it is contrary to the European Union. We have also written that there are some problems there. But does the Minister think that it is reasonable that, because Britain chooses to leave the EU, it should stop everything and not be able to continue with indexation? That is what was proposed before the vote on Britain's withdrawal. You could then index the daily allowance, but because of Britain's exit, the EU says that you cannot do so. Is it fair to do so? In this connection, I should also like to know whether the Minister thinks it is reasonable that Danish daily allowance of DKK 18,395 can be taken. monthly to e.g. Romania, where, according to the price index, it is equivalent to having only DKK 6.927 in order to have the same standard of living down there as you normally have. This means that you almost get the triple in cash benefits. Does the Minister believe that someone who goes to Romania and says that you are looking for a job there will do so as long as you can get Danish unemployment benefit? It would simply be foolish to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174102	Well, I shall be the first to mourn that the UK has resigned or is in the process of stepping out of EU cooperation. For it is clear that the model that had been discussed with the British contained a wide range of potential opportunities which could also be good for other EU countries. And the whole question of the issue of creating rights that could provide indexing opportunities, in many ways I am still deeply concerned about. That is also why we are pursuing it in relation to child benefit. But I must not hide the fact that there is a great deal of opposition to it from other EU countries. Having said that, I would like to say that I am also concerned about the part which Mr. Bent Bøgsted affects both directly and indirectly, namely that one thing is the difference between the level of benefit, but another thing is whether one is available and therefore the whole question of who checks that one is available when one is able to take unemployment benefit with him. There I would say that I myself am very concerned that we should be better at exchanging information compared to those who leave or come to Denmark. Because I am concerned about whether the labour market is actually available in the countries concerned. I think we need to have a much greater political focus on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174228	I think it's quite fair that you get a bigger political focus on that. Because no one can think of them as saying: if I can bring 18,000 Danish kroner to Romania, where the salary, if I apply for a job, is lower than what I can get in cash benefits, why should I apply for a job for the 3 months? This is consistent with the fact that someone who goes to Denmark to work takes 3 months down to the country where they come from, and then they take time off down there for Danish daily allowances and say that they are looking for work, but they are really down to their family. Then they go back to Denmark when the 3 months have passed, and after a while, they take the trip again. That's not fair. That is not what is meant by it. The purpose of the allowance was that they could live in Denmark for daily allowances, not that they could use them to take a holiday, and that is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174323	I agree one hundred per cent with the concern that the Danish People's Party raises here and to which I myself have also responded in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. That is why, in the current negotiations we have about Regulation 883, we will also be looking at how we can better ensure that we demand greater transparency in order to be available for the respective labour markets. Because, in my opinion too, there may be a relevant concern as to whether we are actually available.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174350	Thank you, Minister. There are no further questions or comments. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174410	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the authors of the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution, because it gives a very good opportunity to discuss it here, at least in our opinion, important issues. First of all, I would like to say that we are in agreement with the authors of the resolution as regards the desire to index social welfare benefits in the European Union. We feel that we need to find a way to ensure that the allowance and also another discussion we have had in the past: child benefit, etc. It is simply a matter of fairness and fairness. The current rules are not up-to-date. Since Regulation 883 entered into force, the number of EU citizens residing in a Member State other than their home Member State has increased by more than 60%. In Denmark, the number of non-Danish EU citizens has more than doubled. When you combine the fact with the great differences in living standards in the various EU countries • For some, Danish unemployment benefits are more than ten times the pay they can get in their country of origin • So it makes great demands that as a country we have proper protection against cheating with social benefits that can undermine the whole foundation and support of the welfare society. That is why we have repeatedly criticised the fact that the possibility of indexing welfare benefits was not part of the Commission's proposal to amend Regulation 883. The fact that the Commission, with its proposals on top of this, is proposing to extend the period of time for taking unemployment benefits to another EU country, from 3 to 6 months, only makes the matter more serious, from a socialist point of view. The funding of our welfare may be threatened in the long run if EU citizens continue to have the same access to services as Danes. There will of course be critics who will argue that it is blown out of proportion, and it is also true that the problem is currently limited. You are right that this is not an insurmountable expense for the Treasury. But for social democracy it is not the amount of money that matters. It is whether it is sensible or not, and I do not think it is today. In these years, it is more important than ever that the EU rules reflect common sense and feel reasonable for those citizens who pay their taxes for a lifetime, money-box contributions, etc. If they feel that the rules are not fair, this could undermine support for the European Union and the principle of the free movement of workers. In addition, it is essential for the Social Democratic Party that we ensure the Danish unemployment benefit system. And the starting point for obtaining Danish unemployment benefit is that you are available for the Danish labour market. This applies to Danes and to other EU citizens. Therefore, it does not make sense for me if the rules can be used to allow a foreign worker to obtain Danish allowances to seek work in other countries for six months. Let me therefore repeat: we are in fact very much in agreement with the proposers that Danish daily allowances should be indexed if an EU citizen takes them to another EU country. Having said that, we cannot support a resolution that directly calls for the breach of EU law. After all, we need to respect the law and instead work to change the unfair rules within the framework of the law. Therefore, it is also my approach to this question to call on the government, as we have also done other times, to deliver on the promise made by the governing parties together with the Danish People's Party already before the parliamentary elections in 2015 in the presentation I remember called "Danish welfare in Europe', namely that the government will work to change the rules of indexation at European level. So just to repeat, we support the intention. We cannot support the motion for a resolution, but we will, on the other hand, propose that we have a report written during the committee's reading to ensure rules based on fairness and fairness. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174757	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174800	Thank you. I'm actually glad that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says something like what I also expected would come from the Social Democracy. Thank you for that. We also think it is unfair that we should be below what the European Union says. That is also why we wrote that we know that there are some problems with EU law. Therefore, it is also very timely to ask whether we can then make a report that tightens up with the government and what it should be working on. We in the Danish People's Party accept that. We would like to be involved in further work on this. We can see that we are not getting this proposal adopted as it is, but if we could agree to make a report and then tighten up with the government and tell it what to work with, then that would be fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174851	The agreement of the Danish People's Party as the proposer of the proposal I will in fact just accept. I think it may end up being a good starting point, that we agree on what direction the government and hopefully a broad majority in the Folketing believe we should work on to ensure rules based on common sense and fairness.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174919	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212174922	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There was one comment that the rapporteur made, which I would just like to clarify to see if I understood it correctly. And if I did, I think it's problematic. I understood that the rapporteur said that the Danish welfare model would not be able to cope with it if foreign workers had the same rights in the style of welfare benefits that Danes have. If that is true, then I very much disagree with it, because if we imagine a situation in which all this profit-making principle thing is spreading, so that you have to have stayed in Denmark and meet all kinds of earning requirements in order to have access to the welfare benefits that you otherwise have the right to, if you pay your tax, then we will really have a two-part sharing on the Danish labour market. We will then have a growing group of foreign workers with less social security than Danish employees have. What does that lead to? Yes, that leads to what we actually agree to avoid, namely social dumping. For then that group of workers will feel even more pressured than they may already be doing in advance to take any job at any salary. That is why, in principle, I very much disagree, if that is the case, so I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether I had understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175047	So, I do not know whether it is I who expressed me wrong or whether it is the rapporteur who did not hear it correctly, but I said it in connection with the fact that if there is too much unfairness or cheating, then it could erode support for the welfare society and for the Danish model. And one of the reasons why, for example, we are here. At any rate, sceptical of the part of the Commission's proposal for a revision of Regulation 883/04 is that we simply believe that it is too long for foreign workers to be able to take unemployment benefit with them out of the country without actually being available for the labour market. We believe that we are breaking with a reasonable principle. I don't know if that's the answer to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175132	In other words, if we are only discussing the question of whether the three months should be extended to 6, then I think the rapporteur knows that we are in agreement on this is unreasonable, but it is from the point of view of Enhedslisten, not from some suspicion that the unemployed are only trying to cheat, and what do I know? Then it is simply on the assumption that three months will have to be enough to find out if you can get work abroad. So, if this is not a general position of the rapporteur, I am, of course, glad that it is not and that we can discuss it in concrete terms. However, I would just like to point out that when we talk about EU citizens, all of this with profit principles does not have much effect, because in most cases EU citizens will, of course, be covered by certain periods of insurance of different kinds, just as they are about cash benefits. This can then be discussed in the light of the fact that unemployment benefit is an unemployment insurance scheme that you have to join, so why can seniority from quite different systems count there? Otherwise, however, there will actually be no difference for EU citizens, because the income requirement will be offset by the fact that they can use what is called the principle of aggregation. No, where the problem may arise is in relation to the citizens of third countries, if it becomes a general principle, as it is for the Danish People's Party and for the bourgeois camp, that foreign workers generally have to meet all kinds of income requirements, because they can have access to social benefits. This creates a situation, and I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the fact that a C-team on the Danish labour market of foreign workers really does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175307	In other words, we have no general view that foreign workers should earn the right to social benefits. If they are here legally and comply with the rules and conditions which, moreover, may be in order to have access to it at all, then they also have the right to do so. However, we believe that there are a large number of gaps in the system, including the discussion that I can hear the questioner also agree with, among other things, whether or not there are any. the daily allowances. We have also meant it in the case of child support, where there are some absurdities and where there are some inappropriate things that we simply believe should be organised and which we actually believe that a large number of other EU countries should be as interested in organising as we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175350	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are no further brief comments, and we shall therefore proceed to the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175401	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for this resolution to shed light on this issue, because this is an important issue. Are EU rules fair and fair? What do we have of wanting to change them so that they become more reasonable? The proposal, as it stands here today, is in all likelihood contrary to EU rules on social benefits. The authors of the motion for a resolution have also taken note of this in their comments on the motion for a resolution itself, but this debate will of course be of no less importance. It makes sense for us to have an opportunity to talk and discuss the possible absurdities that exist with the existing rules within the legal framework of the European Union. There are challenges that we must put under the carpet. The government has already addressed some of them. For example: After Danish efforts, the Commission has proposed that, in future, you should have worked and be insured for three months before you have access to a country's daily allowance. That certainly benefits us. In addition, the government is working to make it possible to index child benefit to children living in another country. We are not in the goal yet, but we are working in that direction. From now on, we need to define the possibility of taking Danish daily allowances out of the country as much as possible. We simply need to restrict exports and tighten up the employment requirement, and that is in line with the intentions of this resolution. So I hope and believe that the proposers, the Danish People's Party, will welcome this. I will conclude by saying that the Left cannot support this resolution as it stands, but we welcome it as the Socialists. The Socialist rapporteur has said that this could lead to a report in the Employment Committee which addresses the issue of whether EU rules are now fair and fair and how we will work to make them even more fair and fair. It could also be about supporting the work that is already going on to limit the export of daily allowances by holding on to the three months that are in force, rather than the six months that the Commission is proposing right now. Against this background, we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175658	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175700	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, because what I perceive is that Mr. Hans Andersen agrees with the intentions of the motion for a resolution and agrees that it should not be the case that you can simply go to another country with Danish daily allowances, where you actually get three times as much out of being on cash benefits than by taking a job in your own country. It can also be four and five times as much, I do not know, it depends on which country you come to. That's how I got it. I also understand that the Left is ready to contribute to a joint report on this which strengthens the work that needs to be done in order for us to have the allowance indexed. That is what has been proposed, but it must then take place in the European Union, if I have understood correctly. That is a good thing, because then we already have a majority to report on what is working in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175753-2	The Left would like to help work on a report in which we make it clear that EU rules must be based on common sense and fairness and that we must change unfairness within the legal framework of the European Union. We cannot support this resolution because it runs counter to Denmark's obligations under EU rules. That is what is, of course, the crux of the matter, but we think it would be very good if the Danish Parliament were united in saying that we should have some rules, including some EU rules based on common sense and fairness. We are talking here, among other things. on daily allowances and the export of daily allowances, i.e. the length of time that can be taken out of the country, as an example of something that we should deal with in a possible report.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175852	Is it to be understood that the Left believes that a purchasing power indexing of the daily allowance would be a fine and good proposal and something that the Left could support if there were no EU rules that prevented it? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212175911	Yes, I certainly think that looking at the daily allowance and, as such, whether it was possible for EU countries to come together and agree on it is a good thing. However, I believe that we need to work in areas where we are more likely to succeed in promoting Denmark's interests, and that is why I mention the export of daily allowances. I would like to mention one example of the fact that we have actually moved the Commission. That is why I hope we can agree on a report that supports the work that the government has already set in motion in order to make EU rules more reasonable and more common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180003	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen for today's work. And welcome to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180017	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal, because this gives us the opportunity to once again take this difficult but important discussion about our relationship with the EU and its influence on the Danish labour market and on the Danish labour market rules and welfare services in general. It is an ongoing discussion that we have, and it is important to take, also on the basis of very concrete examples such as this. I should also like to stress what we have said in the Committee on Employment and also in the Committee on European Affairs, where we have been in a joint opinion on the basis of an opinion from the Employment Committee that we, like other rapporteurs, are satisfied that the Commission recognises it here by the three months when it comes to the right to daily allowances in this country, but that we disagree with the Commission that when it comes to the right to take daily allowances out to look for work in another EU country, it must be extended from 3 to 6 months. The Enhedslisten also disagrees with that. I do not remember whether it is the whole of the Folketing, but it is at least a very broad majority who agree to distance themselves from the Commission's proposal in this respect. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, this is partly due to the fact that the Commission should not interfere in this matter as a matter of principle, partly because we therefore consider it unnecessary to extend the period from 3 to 6 months. Three months must be enough for you to try your luck, if you will say so, and to find work in another EU country, and there, in turn, we think it is a good arrangement. It is of course, one might say, a side benefit by insuring oneself in a Danish insurance fund that one gets the right and the opportunity to look for work in another country for the benefits that one has contributed to, if one can say so, saving up to both through the tax and through his insurance contribution. We think that is a good right. We do not then agree with the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party and it is not because it is contrary to EU law. We do not think this is an excuse. After all, we have to deal with things in terms of attitude, and perhaps some of the previous rapporteurs have a bit of a problem, but they will have to discuss this themselves with the Danish People's Party. On the contrary, we have the view on EU law that if Denmark really wants to move something in the EU on some points that are very important for Denmark, then we should be willing to take the fight and challenge the EU system and implement things and then see how the EU responds to it. Yes, we can risk being dragged before the European Court of Justice................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We do not think that we should do that here, but it is because we disagree with the fact that we have to make an indexing of the three months' daily allowance that you can take with you to look for work in another country. Let's just hold on to what it's all about. This means that you must have a minimum income corresponding to the daily allowance, so that you have some financial security while seeking work in another country. We think it is a good right to have and a good opportunity for employees to have. Then there is no need to index it, because what happens if you index it? Yes, then it means that if you happen to seek work in Poland, you will get a significantly lower benefit in the 3 months than you would get if you maintained the benefit rate, with the result that you then do not have, if you may say so, the same basis for choosing a little sensible between the different jobs. The lower the security you have socially in an unemployment situation, the more you are pressured to take any job and we do not think that is appropriate. So just when it comes to this scheme, we think it is good enough as it is, and therefore so in substance we disagree with the proposal that the Danish People's Party has made. So one would say: Well Enhedslisten has been in favour of it with indexing the children's cheque. Yes, as the second best solution. There, of course, we have a completely different position from most of the others here in the Danish Parliament, because we believe that we should actually follow what is actually and has been in the law on the children's cheque all the way through, namely that it is paid to children who are staying in this country. That is the reason why it was introduced, and that is how it is described. The European Union has just changed that; we very much disagree with that. That is why we are also saying that if we cannot get through with it, then we think that indexing child pay can be a reasonable arrangement, but it is also something quite different from looking for work for three months. It is, of course, a permanent arrangement in which parents or one of them pays taxes in this country and thus acquires the right to a child's check, but where children can then stay for years in a country where there are quite different costs of living. These are two very different arrangements. I think it is important, when we assess the various services, that we do not just have such a mechanics that say that now it all needs to be indexed. We need to look at each scheme, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal that lies here from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180534	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180536	Thank you, but perhaps I also had the feeling that it was in that direction, sir. Finn Sørensen wanted to leave. But it is also the same as saying that Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks it is reasonable that you can take Danish daily allowances to another country where the cost of living is much lower, and then you can live there for 3 months without looking for a job. It may be said that you have to be available for the labour market, but there is not much control over whether you are looking for a job. Therefore, it might perhaps be appropriate to ask the Minister if you have any figures on how many of those who have left with Danish unemployment benefits have actually got a job in the countries to which they have gone, in other words where they say they are looking for work. But I understand that Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks it is fair that you can go to another country and then be down there for 3 months, although it is not really checked whether you are looking for work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180629	Now we think it's fair. I have argued in favour of this. It is a good advantage to be a member of an unemployment fund that you have the opportunity to seek happiness in another country, as employees have always done for generations. We think that is quite basically reasonable. And then the difference between our view of the unemployed and that of the unemployed is probably the one that our view of the unemployed is based on trust. It doesn't mean that everyone is some angels, it's not all, but it's no use making legislation on the assumption that some or a lot of people are crooks and are only out to pee on the system. Because if we do that, we will be reducing the welfare of the vast majority. So it is just a different view we have on it and that cannot be an argument for us to weaken the system that we really think is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180721	The questioner has no further questions, and there are no more brief comments from others. Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen, and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180730	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have already explained the proposal and I would therefore just like to say that in the Liberal Alliance we fully agree with the ambition that a number of Danish benefits should be indexed according to the cost of living in the country where they are paid. The European Union should not be a social union, and it should not be possible to shop around the European Union for high benefits that you can take with you to low-cost countries. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180803	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180811	Thank you. In the alternative, we are pleased that you have the opportunity to go out and look for work in other countries during a period in which you keep your daily allowance. We really think it is fair enough that you get the allowance when you have earned the right to them in Denmark. The resolution is, moreover, probably contrary to EU rules, which do not open up that practice, and the alternative is not interested in the EU opening a case against Denmark in an area where we agree with the European Union. So what we agree with is that you should not index the daily allowance, and that is why the alternative is voting against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180847	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. No one was challenged for short remarks. Oh, I'm sorry! Sir. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180853	It's just that, uh... it's just that, uh... it's... it's just that, uh... Torsten Gejl says it's fair to get the cash benefits you've earned yourself and all that. There's a difference between how to earn them. You can be 12 months in Denmark and earn full Danish daily allowance, or you can come from an EU country, perhaps in Eastern Europe, where you have from perhaps 9 months, and then you get the remaining 3 months in Denmark, and then you are entitled to full Danish daily allowance. Is that fair, too? I could understand it if Mr. Simpson... Torsten Gejl said that it is reasonable if you have earned all the allowances in Denmark, that is to say you should be able to have them. But you can come from another EU country and have most of the earning period with and then just have the last part in Denmark, and then you are entitled to full Danish daily allowance, in fact for 2 years. And then you can take them out for 3 months to look for a job, and then you go home to your own country, and then you come back and go on unemployment benefits in Denmark until the next time you can go out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212180952	I mean, I think that's okay with that. And if we were to say that we should not, I fear that, in order to prevent a few from doing so, we would prevent many Danes from going out and looking for work, which is something that has always been done, as Mr. Finn Sørensen said too. And it is in a situation where, for once, it is a little lucky that there is a little money available and you can actually pay your rent and provide a family at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181024	It's because Mr. Torsten Gejl mentioned it with that it will prevent Danes from going out and looking for work. Well, sir, I guess. Torsten Gejl, that a Dane will travel to Romania and seek work for a salary that is five times less than what you can get in Denmark just because you have a daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181044-2	Well, I haven't studied which countries we typically seek most work in. I'd be surprised if it was Romania. But the fact that you can get out and look for work around Europe and have some certainty that you still have your house when you get home, we think that is a really good idea. And in fact, I'm going to go so far as to say that we wouldn't mind that it was 6 months you could use this opportunity in.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181109	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181125	Thank you. Nor can we support the resolution. It is basically a question of whether we want to see the free movement of labour really started, and then I think it is about what kind of fundamental rights we support for workers in particular. I can take care of myself getting a little worried about agreeing far along the way with Enhedslisten's rapporteur here. It is not so often that we agree in these areas, but far along the way I agree with many of the arguments that have been used here. It is simply a general matter of raising the level. Then there's something about how it makes the most sense, how we get the most out. I think what the Social Democrat rapporteur said about what is common sense is very good. Perhaps we have so little different perceptions of that, at least in a number of other areas, what is really common sense, but I agree with that. That is what needs to be done, and it can sometimes give rise to some transitions. I think the rapporteur of the alternative mentioned that earlier. What are things to be kept up against? Does anyone use these rules to bring money? And what's that up to? That is, the opportunities that we give people to look for work in other countries, not to stay here in Denmark on unemployment benefits, perhaps at a time when there is no work to be done, and then just hang on here. And on the other hand, we are also very happy that we are at least in the Radical Left that we can attract the labour that companies need, although it is difficult at the moment, because when they can fill their posts, new jobs will be created. The labour market is not a chair game. This is an element of this, which is why we in the Radical Left think that there is a difference between indexing in relation to benefit and indexing in relation to child benefit. We are much more open to the discussion about indexing child pay. After all, this is about people who have paid cash and earned benefits. You have to be at work to earn it. That's why we really think the rules are excellent in this area. We are happy to discuss in general whether improvements can be made in Europe. There is, of course, a major discussion going on in the whole social pillar area, which would be so refreshing if more people went into it offensively. But, as I said, we are opposed to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181436	Thank you very much to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181446	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting this debate on the agenda. This is an important, fundamental debate which has implications for the support of the European Union. Mobile workers are good, but they also present challenges. Of course, there must be fairness and reason when Danish services are paid for job search in other EU countries. The Danish daily allowance must be seen in the light of the level of coverage or compensation that the daily allowance has in relation to the Danish wage level, and in Denmark the daily allowance has a level of coverage which is probably around 50 per cent. for skilled workers. In Romania and Bulgaria, the same daily allowance will probably have a coverage rate of around 200 per cent. This does not make sense, and Danish taxpayers and Danish members of the A-banks would rightly consider it unfair. When a wage earner loses his job in Denmark, a process starts both in the cashier and in the job center, which is called for interviews, and job search needs to be documented. Similarly, we have no opportunity whatsoever to check whether a Romanian or Bulgarian construction work is actually available for jobs in the home country. SF believes that 3 months is so ample time. If you haven't found a job during that period, you'd better think about getting your nose back home. As described in the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, we cannot support it, but we would very much like to see in committee whether we can come together on a text that can help push the government in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181654	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. No one begged for a brief comment, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181711	I'll be brief. We feel well covered by the Minister's speech. We share the intentions of the Danish People's Party to ensure that transfer income is kept low. We are generally in favour of this. Also in relation to foreigners, it is of course important that Danish transfer income is not so high that they act as a magnet for people who come to Denmark to obtain our transfer income. So it would really be good if we could do what the Danish People's Party is proposing, but we must also respect the fact that when the government tells us that this is not something that we can immediately implement for the sake of EU rules, we are in most cases bound by it. Of course, we do not have the position that the EU should decide everything, but we have the view that when we enter into agreements in the European Union, we must, as a rule, live up to those agreements, unless they are entirely vital Danish interests. If there is something really crucial for the future or existence of the country, you can of course break agreements, but here it is difficult to see how we should be able to go in and justify that we do not live up to the rules that exist in this area and that we ourselves have helped to adopt in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181828	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212181848	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the parties for a good debate. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is an important issue. We find it difficult to see that you can travel to a country and that you get a daily allowance for 3 months, which may be three or four or perhaps five times as high as the salary you can get by taking a job down there. It is clear that then we do not have much faith in the fact that, for example, we do not. someone from Romania or one from Poland will go back and say that you are looking for work in your own country when you have a good daily allowance rate in Denmark that you can take with you. And they can travel to Denmark and get the high daily allowance rate again. There is also a difference between whether you have been in Denmark for 12 months and earned all the daily allowances in Denmark, or whether you have your income with from the country you come from, and then after 3 months of earning you can get full Danish daily allowance. We don't think that's fair. We were well aware that there were some problems around the European Union, and it is a pity that, because Britain is going out, the European Union is saying that we will stop talking about indexing the daily allowance. It's too bad they're doing it. They should have been working on it. The Minister has said that we will work within the European Union. I sense that the Minister agrees with the Danish People's Party in our considerations here, but work must be done within the European Union. That's how I've seen it. That's fair enough. Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen to help look at a story. I think we can go a long way along that road. I would like to take this opportunity to say the same to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, who is on the same track, so that we can write a joint account. I am so unsure whether the Left will be involved in the same type of report as there is talk of, but we have to look at that in the committee work. It certainly sounds like we can write a report that can help push the government in the direction we want. Sir. Finn Sørensen said no and thinks that you should bring all the benefits you can now get, and that is fair enough. That is the position that is being taken there. I fully respect that position. The same with the Liberal Alliance and Radicals. That you have that attitude is fair enough; that was a no to it. I could understand from Conservatives that they were in agreement, but that the European Union is preventing it, and we must accept that as well is their direction. Whether Conservatives will help to look at a joint report, we will have to look into it in committee. I was a little unsure about the Liberal Alliance. You said no to the proposal, but I do not know whether they will also be part of a joint report. We'll see what we can agree on. But I would like to thank you for a good debate and then we in the committee will have to look at what we can agree on in a report. So thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182201	You're welcome, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182205	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her speech. Yes, it will be really exciting to see what the different people really mean when we sit and write something down. I am a little excited about that as a result of some of the statements that have been made. I think that the rapporteur is not so much in his speech right here, but in his questions, as well as building a lot of his reasons for this proposal on some perception that they are abusing the scheme. Only Romanians, Bulgarians and such were mentioned. They just bring this money for three months, and then they go scratching their asses, and then they come back again, and then they leave, and so on, until there's no allowance left. I would like to ask: on what does the rapporteur actually base this on?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182255-2	But I am based on the fact that we can see that there is an increase in the number of people taking the daily allowance, also to Eastern Europe. There is too little control over whether they are really looking for work. That is why I would actually like to ask the Minister to explain in writing at some point how many of those who have left have actually got a job in the countries to which they have said they have gone to look for work. Because that seems to us to be missing in this debate, so that you can see what the effect of the three months' daily allowance they are taking out is. How many really get a job in the countries to which they go and to which they say they are going to look for work? It may also be a Dane who travels to Spain in the winter and then stays down there in the heat for 3 months on the daily allowance. We have no control over that, and I have no control over whether it is their home countries that they come from, they go to, or whether it is Danes who go to some country or another. But if we get the Minister to give us some figures on how many of those who take out unemployment benefits and look for jobs, then that will facilitate the debate, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182415	Thank you. The fact that there may not be the same control as there is, if you are available at home, and the fact that you may not succeed in finding a job, surely you cannot take as an expression that everything is then just a hoax and that people are just taking the benefits and that they are not actually looking for a job. I agree with the rapporteur on this point. Nor has the rapporteur really been able to give any examples of abuse, and my question is just this: is it not so strong enough that one is building one's argument for a proposal on the suspicion of the unemployed who take the daily allowance to some other countries, whether it is Danes or foreigners who do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182458	No, I do not think so, because we believe that we should not feel that we can go to a country where wages are lower than the daily allowances that we receive in Denmark. Then we think it should be indexed according to purchasing power. That is our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182518	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. If none of you object, then it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182551	The debate is open and the first we welcome is the country's Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182602	Thank you. We shall now proceed to a debate on B 18 on what goes under the name of a social protocol. I can start by revealing that I cannot support the proposal on behalf of the government. What I think is important in the discussion we are going to have here today is the whole question of the internal market. After all, the government is in favour of both free movement and the protection of workers. The two considerations must go hand in hand. For there to be workers to protect, there must also be employers, and for there to be employers, there must be growth and employment. And that is absolutely essential for us to have the European Union's internal market. So basically, the European Union is a really, very good and positive step forward for our workers. But I do not quite believe the Enhedslisten subscribes to that logic if I understand the proposal correctly. And of course that is entirely legitimate, because the Enhedslisten basically wants a completely different society with a completely different social structure, also in many ways, I think, a different relationship between employers and employees. I am surprised, however, that the European trade union movement is also behind the proposal on certain points. For I believe that the proposal will effectively put an end to the internal market. At least that is how I understand it, in other words, that social rights must always be limited to economic rights. Then companies will not be able to be sure of anything. What if a German trade union conflicts with a Danish service provider requiring the Danish company to hire some more unemployed Germans? This is clearly an illegal requirement under EU law. Should it then suddenly be legal because a social protocol states that social rights are above economics? No, right? And if I am told that it is not, of course, such a situation that is being considered, I would actually like to hear how one intends to unfold the proposal. But now the Enhedslisten is not yet in government. They can come at some point in the future, I shall not judge that. I can hear some strange noises being made from the Parliamentary Chamber, however, outside the microphone. So it must come as a question later from the honourable gentleman. Søren Søndergaard. But what is basically lacking is that the government will not be able to support a social protocol. As you know, I have recently been debating the Posting of Workers Directive, where I have almost seen quite a lot of disagreements between the Member States. And I can guarantee that even if Denmark and other countries want a social protocol, there is a long way to go. And, of course, what other countries are thinking should not be taken into account, but I am not in any way in favour of going the way that the Enhedslisten is setting out here. The government is in favour of free movement and of the protection of workers, and we believe that both concerns have been addressed in the European Union and also by the European Court of Justice. So I would like to thank you for the debate. But that is why we can discuss it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182911	It was just early enough to say thank you for the debate, because it is only now beginning. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212182918	Thank you. I also think it might be a little too optimistic if the Minister thought he could do it. So, I am a little disappointed with the Minister, because I have actually seen this minister as being extremely well prepared for all the different meetings we have been having with each other since the Minister took office, in the form of consultations and meetings in the Chamber, etc. So that is not how it works to me with the speech that the Minister has made here. The Minister says that in some respects the proposal is similar to that proposed by the European trade union movement. I would ask the Minister to read the lines of the motion for a resolution which I know are incredibly many lines: one and a half lines. For it is very clear that the Folketing is instructing the government to work for the introduction of a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon as proposed by the European Trade Union Confederation, the ETUC. It is therefore the proposal of the European trade union movement that the Enhedslisten would like to oblige the government to work for. The same European Trade Union Confederation is enthusiastic supporters of the European Union. They are enthusiastic supporters of the single market. So can the Minister not try to elaborate on why this proposal should lead to the prevention of growth and employment, because that seemed to be the prime argument of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183053	It is, of course, violent to have such strong praise as is then used to say that one is not prepared at all as a minister. But I'm gonna sign for it first. I'll take that straight to me here in December. I disagree one hundred percent with the development of the model that Enhedslisten proposes. I am simply because I do not believe that this is the way the European Union should go, and that is just a political disagreement, that is the way it is. I then made a reservation, and one can of course discuss whether it was right or not to take that reservation, and that is because, after all, there are also comments on the proposal. And I have not studied the two proposals that we see, that is, from the European trade union movement and then from the Enhedslisten. But it is clear that if Mr. Finn Sørensen says it's one for one the same, then it's fine. For then I am also one hundred per cent opposed to what the European trade union movement might have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183142-2	But then I can confirm that it is exactly the same and that there is no attempt in the comments to interpret the European trade union movement's proposals in a different way than the trade union movement itself has interpreted it. The reason for the European trade union movement's proposals is, after all, the Laval judgment and some subsequent judgments before the European Court of Justice, which denied conflict law and which deprived Member States of important tools to ensure that foreign workers worked on exactly the same conditions as the host country workers. That is the purpose of it. I would just like to ask the Minister to take a look at this and then try to get into the discussion. The Minister should consider whether it really is right that it stands in the way of growth and employment, ensuring the right of conflict and the professional and social rights of the trade union movement and the workers' movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183237	As I understand it, it is absolutely essential that social rights always have to impose economic rights. That is what I understand in the proposal. I have no doubt that this will have an impact on growth and employment and, basically, be a great disservice to do in relation to what is most needed now, namely to ensure that there is good and secure development at European level. However, I would also like to say that there is, of course, a discussion about where the European Union should move. It is about how to define your EU policy. And I just don't think that this is the way the European Union should move along. It's just that I have a political disagreement with the Enhedslisten, and you can have that when you're in different parties. So I do not think that this will in any way benefit the European project. I believe that this will help to create even greater distance between decision-makers and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183331	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183333	I therefore agree with the Minister that this reflects a political disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the government. What is then the big question is whether it also reflects a political disagreement between a majority in the Folketing and the government, i.e. whether a majority in the Folketing will safeguard the interests of employees or not. That is interesting, and we shall then look at it in the light of today's debate. However, I heard the Minister say that the Minister saw the European Court of Justice as the guarantor of the balance of the labour market. Is that correct, or did I hear it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183411	I don't think so, sir. Søren Søndergaard hears something wrong. I said "and we believe that the consideration for the free movement and protection of workers has been taken care of in both the European Union and the European Court of Justice. So that is what I have to say about the question I am raising myself, namely whether a social protocol is realistic or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183437	Well, I just don't understand how to come to the conclusion that the European Court of Justice protects that balance. Well, we all remember the Lavaldom, which dramatically upset the balance and which meant that there was a fever rescue in the Danish Parliament. After all, we remember the letter sent to the Court by a former colleague of the Minister, Mr Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who wrote that, first of all, we should not interfere in professional matters, and secondly, that if we did so, we should certainly not interfere in the right to strike. The Court overheard that. At that time it was quite clear, and nothing has changed on the basis of the Court of Justice judging from nothing. So is the Minister still in agreement with the then Prime Minister's statement then, or is it a new opinion that the Court of Justice ensures this balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183535	I am not, in fact, put in the world to make assessments of a former Prime Minister's letter, which I do not even have with me here today, but I am happy to reply to it. I don't remember what Anders Fogh Rasmussen wrote at the time. However, asked whether the social protocol proposed by the Enhedslisten is progress or not, I would say that I believe it will help undermine support for the European project, and that is not what I am fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183600	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur from the parties is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from the Social Democratic Party, who is now at a high pace in social democracy. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183619	Thank you. It's a long way from the back row, but we're trying. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. We've had this discussion before. As some people have also noticed, we in the Social Democratic Party have, in the last year and a half in a number of areas, in my opinion, clarified where we want to see changes to existing EU cooperation, and in this way I fully share the Minister's support for the EU project, support for the internal market and also support for free movement, but we are in the Social Democratic Party at the same time of that view, and we also believe that a large number of the unfortunately large political outbursts that have been around Europe, most recently with the departure of the British, underline the need for free movement to become fair movement as well. As the motion for a resolution also shows, this is, after all, a proposal which, as it is mentioned, has been born of the European trade union movement, but also supported by a large number of social democratic parties around Europe. This is something we have also supported in the Social Democracy in Denmark in our Nordic cooperation organisation SAMAK. This is something where, when we last had the discussion, I think it was a year and a half ago, I said that we were in agreement with the intentions, but were not prepared to support the resolution without further discussion. On the other hand, we have now come to the conclusion that we really want to support this motion for a resolution, and it is on the basis of the fundamental intention that we believe that, in order to save precisely the EU project, which the Minister also mentions, he is afraid such a social protocol may harm, this will actually be one of the few tools available to ensure that there is a better balance between the internal market and, on the one hand, some of the rights of employees in particular, but also respect for wages and working conditions. Then there may be a discussion when you get further forward, and I also share the Minister's view that it is not right for it to become a reality tomorrow, and probably not the day after tomorrow, but it should not stop Denmark from being a country that is actively involved in trying to shape how to ensure that there is an interpretation of the Treaty of Lisbon, so that you both become more aware of what you mean when you say that the European Union should be a social market economy, as stated in Article 1 of the proposal made by the European trade union movement, but also what you mean when you say that the European Union should work towards social progress, etc. We would very much like to enter into these discussions, both here in the Danish Parliament, but in particular also, as we already do, in our European and Nordic cooperation bodies and, as such, at EU level in general. So with those comments and with the intention that we want free movement to be fair movement and that we want a better balance between the internal market and respect for workers' basic rights and salaries and working conditions, we want to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183939	Thank you to Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212183944	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. This is something we have discussed sometimes in this Chamber. It's not as long as we've been discussing this proposal. This is now the third time, and it has to be said that the third time is the course of happiness. Because the other two times they failed to convince the Social Democrats that they should be on board and support the demands of the European trade union movement. So I am really glad that we have succeeded today. I am also pleased that the rapporteur actually explains what it is about, namely ensuring that the Treaty is interpreted in such a way as to guarantee professional and social rights. That is exactly what the European trade union movement's proposal is about. I assume, then, that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have thought this through perhaps it is a little naughty to ask, but just for the sake of security, that when you support such a proposal, you are also aware that it is of course a commitment and, hopefully, when, after the next parliamentary elections, we get a new majority and a social democratic government, as we have to assume it will be, there will be an obligation here today, and by voting in favour of it, that you will then be involved in making that demand in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184104	We're always thinking... I'd venture to claim through those things that we choose to support. That was, in fact, one of the reasons why, the last time we had the debate in this Chamber, I agreed with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution. I myself have a European social democratic regime, among other things. the way in which such a social protocol can be drawn up and the discussions that lie there. At that time, however, I also said that we were not prepared to support such a resolution. As I said earlier in my rapporteur's remarks, there are, of course, many discussions about the design of this, but the basic idea that it was born of some of our sister parties around us and that we have supported it in our own Nordic cooperation framework, that is to say, an idea that more is being done to ensure that freedom of movement also becomes fair movement, and that the interpretation of what is actually contained in the preamble to the Treaty of Lisbon that we are a social market economy and that we are working towards social progress, we want to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184212-2	I would just like to say thank you for that, and I am looking forward to a new discussion which will take place at a higher level. Now we are no longer going to discuss whether we should have such a proposal, but how we can implement it. It is possible that not only do we agree on all aspects, but at any rate it is a breakthrough in the debate. So thank you for that and also congratulations to the rapporteur, whom I know for quite some time now has tried to convince his party that this should be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184246	Thank you. On the whole, I think that in these years and with good reason there are a lot of important reasons for discussing, at least if you have the position I have, how you can also secure the support for the future, but also the sustainability of the EU project. I am fully convinced that if the EU project in the long run is not to experience major setbacks or what we have seen with Brexit etc., a clearer balance must be struck between the internal market on the one hand and the social rights of the people on the other. It is simply a question of making freedom of movement fairer. In this context, of course, I would just like to say to the authors that I know that the party of the proposers has the view that we should have a vote as soon as possible on whether Denmark should resign from the European Union, and I think that this approach is something more constructive than if Denmark should follow the British path.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184354	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184356	Thank you. It should not be a secret that I had a red and a green speech here today, depending on what the Social Democrats chose to report out, because I have had a suspicion that one is moving on this issue too. Then I just need to have something explained, because what we are dealing with today is the re-submission of a resolution that was discussed in spring 2016 and then, and it was the same Social Democrat rapporteur on the platform, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said: Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: It is fundamental social democratic policy that a new orientation of European policy as a starting point should not take place through fragmented resolutions, but should be determined by a broad consensus and taking into account Denmark's overall relationship with the European Union, especially if we want to change treaties or write new protocols. Could the rapporteur not be so kind as to explain why it is no longer fundamental social democratic policy or perhaps say whether the word basically means something different in social democratic terminology than it does in everyone else's?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184504	To quote one of Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's government partners, a minister, he said that reality sometimes changes. And I would say that basically we also still believe that Denmark is best served by discussing in general terms how EU policy should be organised. At the same time, it has also been a wish for us to indicate that, in fact, in the major reform discussions of European cooperation that are currently taking place, we are not in line with either the Enhedslisten or the Danish People's Party, who believe that we should have votes on whether or not we should resign, but we are in favour of the forces in Europe who are asking how we can find a better way of adjusting, so that we create a slightly greater degree of social justice and so that the benefits of the internal market are distributed in a fairer way. In fact, we believe that such a social protocol could be a contribution to that. And, as I said at the same time, it is that we support this motion for a resolution, in fact the beginning of a discussion which does not, moreover, run counter to agreeing on how Denmark's EU policy should be organised.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184620	Yes, yes, well, we can agree that this is a fragmented resolution. We can also agree that we have not had a wide-ranging discussion and that Denmark's overall relationship with the European Union has not been taken into account on such an important issue. So, is it such a completely new style from the Social Democratic Party, or are you going back to the good old Social Democracy if one day you get back into government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184646	I don't know what, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen sees it as the good old Social Democracy, but I certainly see it as a core social democratic task when we discuss it, to ensure it. We are in the midst of a time when the support of a large number of countries for the EU project has basically lagged behind for a long time, because there has been no experience that the single market gains will be distributed fairly. Then you have to discuss how to do it. One of the elements that has recently been adopted is, of course, the creation of a pillar of social rights. That is quite fine with us, but it will not solve the fundamental problem, namely that there is no link between the principles of the internal market on the one hand and respect for, for example, the rights of employees in conflict. We think that is important to ensure. Moreover, I do not think I fully understand why the government and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen not also with the discussions that we have all the time can be, if nothing else, so interested in going into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184743	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184748	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur for the report from the Social Democratic Party. In fact, I agree with the Socialist rapporteur that the EU's ability to resolve this issue is absolutely crucial to the development of the European Union. Our basic view is that the European Union has never been designed, designed or prepared to carry out this task. That is why we have a fundamental opposition to the European Union. But we're willing to admit it if we're wrong. If it turns out that the European Union can fulfil that task, of course we are in a new situation. However, I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether the Socialist rapporteur too does not see the social protocol precisely as something crucial when we are talking about combating social dumping, so not just talking about social rights in general, but just talking about social dumping, and that it is precisely the inability to combat social dumping that creates an incredible frustration around us, among other things. in the Danish working class.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184901	I firmly believe that the unfairness and the challenges that have been posed are not just the free movement of workers, in particular in relation to the posting of employees. It is the free movement of services which has created major challenges in many countries, including Denmark, with social dumping. I believe that, in addition to a revised Posting of Workers Directive, in which I would also like to acknowledge to the government that I have been an active player in relation to Denmark's position, such a social protocol could go in and equalise the considerations between the internal market and respect for pay and working conditions, rights and so on. I think that may be • although it is very far out in the future • an important tool, if it can be anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212184958	After all, we all agree that this may not be something that will change tomorrow, but it is a matter of starting a process and being targeted in that process. I have to thank you for the fact that the Social Democratic Party has joined us. I guess if the Danish People's Party does the same thing, we can already take a major step forward in the fight against social dumping, which is, of course, the key issue. Otherwise, we will have to wait until after an election, but we can hear that when the next rapporteur comes to the floor. In any case, thank you to the Socialist rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185031	I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185036	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, and welcome to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185046	Thank you. I have to say that the Danish People's Party's EU rapporteur is sorry that he could not be here today. He would have liked to have taken part in this debate, but there are some personal reasons why he cannot be here. But, of course, he makes himself available in committee. I have had the pleasure of just saying what he thinks about this motion for a resolution. It is, of course, a re-submission of an earlier resolution, I understand, and already, with the submission of this proposal here, the Enhedslisten has managed to create a division between the otherwise very EU-friendly parties of the Left and the Social Democratic Party. That is a good thing in itself, if that is what has been achieved here. With regard to the proposal to introduce a social protocol into the Treaty of Lisbon, we understand the good ideas behind the desire to better protect employees in Denmark and, to that extent, other countries from social dumping. The only question is whether it is the right medicine in relation to the diagnosed disease. Basically, I believe that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten agree that the ambition, rather than more EU regulation, is less EU regulation. With the introduction of a social protocol requested by Enhedslisten, we are in danger of opening up more EU regulation, in other words for the EU to take on greater responsibility in the labour market. And that is not a matter of course, just because Denmark, for example, as the authors of the motion for a resolution want, is asking for a social protocol with the wishes we might have of what such a protocol would look like once it had been completed, that it would have that impression. It may well end up being a social protocol which does not strengthen the legal position of employees, but on the contrary weakens it. It should also be borne in mind that if you first move on to the track that says that you need a protocol to deal with a specific problem, then you can also risk a number of other stakeholders wanting various protocols to address specific issues that are more important to them, thereby triggering an unfortunate process of more EU regulation. We're not interested in that. The question is whether it would not be more appropriate to attack the problem through a Danish reservation. We have discussed the issue of a reserve for welfare in the Parliamentary Assembly in the past. It would make very good sense to tackle the problem of social dumping within the same heading. Although the Danish People's Party understands the motives of the proposers, we are somewhat reluctant to support that proposal. However, I think that Enhedslisten should have a talk with our EU rapporteur in committee and see if you can find out something there. I won't be able to say that. We haven't said a direct no to that speech here. But how and how it can play its part should I not be able to say here, but I would recommend that you have a talk with our EU rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185420	Sir. Finn Sørensen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185424	Thank you. I will then choose to take that statement in the positive way, even though I got a little tired when I heard the first part. It is, after all, like the same justification that we have heard earlier that it is believed that if the European trade union movement's proposals for a social protocol are implemented, it will lead to more EU regulation. I have tried to explain the other two times that I have been rapporteur on this, that this is not the case. I will then do something more about this, both to the rapporteur's party's EU rapporteur, in the hope that I can convince him, as I can hear that the door is not completely slammed in, and also later. But I really think that the Danish People's Party should take a deep look at what this proposal is all about, because that means that if there is a conflict between the rules of the internal market that did with this Lavaldom and the trade union rights, it is the last to win. The Danish People's Party should be interested in our being able to protect the law of conflict against the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185535-2	Thank you. I understand very well the views expressed by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen comes along, and far along we agree. We were also together to do that writing about the social pillar. It is not the case that we are totally opposed to everything, not at all. But I would recommend that Mr. Finn Sørensen is just having a talk with our EU rapporteur in this area. Because it is in this way in the Committee on European Affairs that it is being dealt with, and I am not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185612	Thank you. I will certainly do that. It is also interesting to do that work, because with the Social Democrats' announcement, only the votes of the Danish People's Party are missing. We would then be able to impose on the government that it should actually raise this proposal. The rapporteur then says that he is not an EU rapporteur, but the rapporteur is, after all, an employment rapporteur, and in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, among other things, we are dealing with ourselves. with the Danish model and the Danish negotiating and conflict law. We all value this very much, and here is a proposal to secure it, so how can the Danish People's Party possibly be in doubt that they should support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185655	We are, of course, talking across committees, including the Employment Committee and the European Committee. Now it is the case that it is dealt with in the European Committee, and that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, rapporteur and our member of the committee. That is why I think it is reasonable that he should then take the decision on this matter. That is why we are still going to refer Mr Beazley to the Court of Justice. Finn Sørensen to make contact with him on the committee and have a good talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185729	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185730	Thank you. I wonder whether this is an attempt by the Danish People's Party to distance itself from Morten Messerschmidt. For we all know that Morten Messerschmidt went to the elections in 2013 on the demand for a social protocol. I myself have sat in the European Parliament with him, and he has repeated it many times. I can quote from the press release sent out by the Danish People's Party, which was published in a large number of newspapers up to the last European Parliament elections. Among other things, it says:: And voters will not find it difficult to recognize the messages of the Danish People's Party in the election campaign prior to the EU parliamentary elections, promises Messerschmidt. It's DF classic, says Messerschmidt. It says further: among the main points of the election campaign, the introduction of a social protocol to curb wage dumping, an updated legal reservation to allow for the return of border controls, and then the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey must be stopped, he explains. So, is this an attempt to distance ourselves from Morten Messerschmidt, or is it a change in the Danish People's Party's policy we are witnessing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185849	No, it's not an attempt to distance yourself from anything. I can repeat the last thing I said: we understand the motives of the proposers, but we are somewhat reluctant to support the proposal. And then I also said that I think you should have a talk with Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, our EU rapporteur, in other words in the areas of the European Committee. I am the rapporteur in the field of employment, and of course we are working on it too, but it is within the framework of the European Union that it will be decided. This whole thing about Mr. Keating... Kenneth Kristensen Berth should disagree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, I haven't heard of anything. But I would urge Mr. Søren Søndergaard to contact our EU rapporteur so you can have a talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185938	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212185940	Of course we will, but this isn't just about Morten Messerschmidt and Kenneth Kristensen Berth. After all, this is about what the Danish People's Party as a party promised the voters before the last European Parliament elections. Prior to the last European Parliament elections, which are the last elections to the European Parliament that have been held, the Danish People's Party promised the DF classic, and the DF classic was summed up in three points, one of which was a social protocol to prevent social dumping. So if you will excuse me, the rapporteur, I am a little surprised that there is no greater enthusiasm when we, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, throw ourselves at DF classic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190027	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190030	Thank you for that, President. Well, I think that's fair enough, what Mr. Søren Søndergaard is coming with us. And, as I said, I think it must be fair enough that, as rapporteur for employment, I do not stand and take decisions on behalf of the EU rapporteur without having had the opportunity to decide for himself what his position on this is. We are, of course, talking about this in the party that is clear but it is and must be our EU rapporteur who will make the final decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190102	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190118	Thank you. After all, we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which calls for the introduction of a so-called social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon and, as is also stated in the comments on the proposal, with a few exceptions, we are talking about the re-submission of motion for a resolution No. B 172, which we dealt with back in 2016. I must then disappoint the authors of the motion that, unlike the Social Democrats, the Left believes the same as when we last discussed the proposal. I'm sorry, that's how it's gonna be. I will refrain from repeating the Minister's excellent speech and, instead, simply endorse his observations. Firstly, we do not agree with the paragraph on which the motion for a resolution is based. We believe that the Member States already have the opportunity and the right to ensure that conditions are in place in the labour market, and we believe that today we have achieved a good balance between, on the one hand, freedom of movement and, on the other hand, respect for workers' rights. In the Left, we are strong supporters of the single market, which both companies and workers enjoy greatly. We believe that it is essential for a competitive and socially sustainable European Union that freedom of movement and social rights are balanced against each other. And, moreover, if we ignore the substance and concentrate on the fact that the proposal will require a Treaty amendment, then I have to say that for this reason we must reject it. It is quite unrealistic to imagine that we could have the necessary support for it among the other EU countries, and moreover, I and the Left do not believe that the time is right now, with all the turbulence in which the European Union is in, to discuss changes to the Treaties. So once again I must disappoint the authors of the motion for a resolution that the Left does not intend to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190311	There is a brief comment to make, first of all to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190317	Thank you to the rapporteur. If we are to understand the rapporteur's statement that, in order for the internal market to work, the European Court of Justice must be allowed to intervene in conflict law, as it did in the Laval judgment, then the European Court of Justice must be allowed to say to the Member States: No, you must not make the same demands on posted workers and their companies as you put on the home country's own businesses, for example. Luxembourg, who was told that it was illegal when they had made a law saying that all companies in Luxembourg should follow the agreements that have now been concluded in Luxembourg? So should we understand that the rapporteur believes that, in order for the internal market to function, it must be possible for the Court of Justice to interpret EU rules in such a way that it can intervene in conflict law and undermine professional rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190424	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190426	As far as the Laval judgment is concerned, we found a solution in Denmark. The LO and DA came together and found a solution to that problem. However, one must understand that EU law must be respected, just as Danish legislation and Danish agreements must be respected, and somewhere one has a court to ensure that it is done, and here in Denmark we have labour law. It is not the case that you can just strike and conflict in Danish law either. There is also a labour law that ensures that agreements and agreements and applicable law are respected, and that is, of course, the case with EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190459	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190501	After all, we are not discussing with this proposal whether EU law should be respected. We are discussing whether EU law needs to be amended so that we can protect the Danish model of agreement and the free bargaining and conflict law in the Danish labour market, and it is therefore characterised by the fact that it is labour law and not the European Court of Justice that decides whether a strike is non-contractual or not. So that is what we have to deal with, but I just have to interpret it in such a way that the rapporteur thinks that it is quite right that it shines through in the answer given to the fact that the Court of Justice intervened in the conflict law, and that should not be changed. That's a clear speech, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190541	I think sir... Finn Sørensen has drawn his conclusions, and they hardly change, regardless of what I had to say from this chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190548	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190550	Thank you. I just have one question. So I agree with the rapporteur that this is not something that is realistic right around the corner. But there is, of course, a discussion right now, such as... the rapporteur's European party colleague, Emmanuel Macron, whom I am quite sure belongs to the same European faction as the rapporteur, has raised, namely that there is a need for Treaty changes. Well, if that discussion should come and Mr. Mr Jørgensen was also asked to take a position on what he would like to see from such Treaty changes, would he be in favour of, or else open to debate, perhaps a fairer, fairer balance between, on the one hand, the internal market and, on the other hand, the consideration of employees' salaries, rights and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190647	I'm standing here wallowing in my party colleague, sir. Emmanuel Macron that sounds very good. It may be that I am about to use it, but I do not think they are quite finished figuring out which group they are joining. But I agree that it would be logical for them to join the Liberal Alde group. In the event of Treaty changes being discussed, that has to be done at some point, just not now. Of course, we are open to discussing everything, but I do not think that is surprising. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, that the Left is very sceptical about extending EU cooperation to include a proper social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190731	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190733	It is perhaps again an interpretation of what this proposal for a social protocol is. We read it very much, and this shows the discussions we have had with both our Nordic cooperation body, SAMAK, and with the European Social Democrats and elsewhere, also that in reality it is a jurisdiction, one might call it, in terms of ensuring that the Treaties are interpreted. One is to elaborate on how the social market economy is to be understood, how social progress is to be understood in the Treaty of Lisbon, but it must also be ensured that, when it comes to conflicting with the principles of the internal market, it is not always employees who have to pay the price in relation to conflict law, wages and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190815	Well, I think that is also a sign of reality. I also think that I do not recognize the interpretation contained in the motion for a resolution of the decisions to which reference is made. After all, it is characteristic that we have found solutions to the issues that have been at national level with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190840	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190845	The question is, of course, whether you are in favour of a social labour market where, as the rapporteur said, there is a balance between the market and social rights, or whether you are in favour of an antisocial labour market where it is the law of the jungle that applies and where the strongest, i.e. those who have the greatest capital, always win. That is why I ask: does the rapporteur really believe that there is and does the rapporteur also believe that it is quite superfluous that there have been so many forces devoted to combating social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212190921	So, I have to choose between whether I support the jungle law or whether I support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. I don't know what number the jungle law has on L 122? Yes, I believe that there is a balance, as I said in my speech, and I believe that the decisions taken by the Court of Justice have been taken without going in and causing problems for the Danish model. Moreover, I also believe that you can just look at the unemployment figures. In other words, if the problem of social dumping was of the kind that Enhedslisten is trying to make it sound like, then we would have a towering unemployment among Danish workers in Denmark, because then a lot of workers from the other EU countries would come and outbid Danish labour through social dumping and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191019	Sir. Christian Juhl would like to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191024	I always choose to hear the answer before I press, it may be that it will be comprehensive. But I understand that there is now balance and that it has actually been a waste of power, because now we have low unemployment, and yet labour from other countries keeps coming to Denmark. Well, that's not exactly true. The second thing I was thinking was: the time has not come for a change in the European Union. With the growing resistance to the EU and, unfortunately, in the extreme right in Europe, actually semi-fascist groups, is it not time to try to make the European Union a tiny bit more popular among ordinary citizens in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191108	I do not think I have said, and I am actually quite sure that I have not said that it is not time to change the European Union. I have said that the time has not come for Treaty changes. That is something else. Moreover, the European Union is already in full swing with a change; for example, the number of proposals coming from the Commission has been rattled down. Then we have a number of challenges, such as Brexit, which are being dealt with. So, of course, there must be changes in the European Union, and the scepticism of the people must be addressed by the fact that the European Union is providing solutions to the problems that the European Union has put in the world to come up with solutions to. What I said was that the time has not come for genuine Treaty changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191146	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191148	I just want to know whether you should understand what the rapporteur says in that the rapporteur believes that social dumping is not a major problem in the Danish labour market. The rapporteur used the wording to say that solutions had been found in the wake of Laval. What has worked primarily in relation to social dumping is the massive fall in unemployment, which is linked to the development of the crisis. However, is it the view of the rapporteur and the Left that social dumping is not a huge problem in the Danish labour market and in the labour market in all more well-developed EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191230	I think I said something about social dumping is not as big a problem as Enhedslisten is trying to make it. I believe that Enhedslisten is trying to make it a huge problem and I do not think it is a huge problem. Preserved, there are, of course, mainly employers who do not comply with the rules they have to comply with. Then you can say it's not the rules. It is then the control of compliance with the rules, because it is then flawed. I think it is very good to have an alert trade union movement, for example, which reveals some of those conditions. After all, there are plenty of national rules in this area which are being circumvented and which are being violated by employers who are more or less fine on the edge, and that is something that must of course be dealt with. But basically, I do not think that we have a huge problem of social dumping, because if that were the case, we would also have very high unemployment in Denmark among Danish workers, because they would then be undercut by people who came from countries where they might be found to be paid worse than Danish contractual conditions dictate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191345	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191347	Actually, I think we're at the core now. I think this is where there is a different assessment. Yes, we believe that social dumping is a huge problem in Denmark, in Sweden, in Germany and in various other countries with relatively high wages. It's a huge problem. If the Left does not think so, it is clear that we are not prepared to use the means that we think should be used. So I guess we're at the core of the disagreement here. So thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191418	Well, I'm sorry, isn't that, sir? Søren Søndergaard and his friends from the People's Movement against the EU and others have been saying since 1972? At that time it was Italians who would come across the borders and steal the work from Danish workers because they could come and outbid and put up with a lower salary etc. Then it is the Eastern Europeans and so on, but the fact is that the workers who come from the other EU countries make a positive contribution to the Danish Treasury, to our welfare society, etc. Then there are cases where rules are being violated, and we must of course strike them down hard, but this is not the same thing as some fundamental fundamental flaw in the system in the European Union and in freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191501	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191512	Thank you. We in the Liberal Alliance are concerned that there is a reasonable balance between workers' rights and freedom of movement. We believe that it would have incalculable consequences for the European labour market if there were to be a situation in which the social protocol was incorporated into the Treaty of Lisbon. This would, of course, give conflict law precedence over other rights, restrict freedom of movement, which has actually meant a great deal of economic and social progress in Europe. So, for that reason alone, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Something else is so quite pragmatic that it would require a revision of the Treaty, and that is probably something that has a long way to go. So that is not a very realistic proposal either. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191613	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191621	Thank you. Today, I have the pleasure of filling in for our EU rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, and he has asked me to say that the alternative is positive about this resolution from the Enhedslisten. EU rules guarantee the free movement of capital, goods and labour and services, but, on the other hand, the rules do not guarantee workers' rights and the right of Member States to protect themselves against social dumping. That is why we fear that there is free play for employers and private individuals to import foreign labour for lower wages and worse working conditions, and that is the quite wrong way to go, not least in view of all the hours we have spent in this Chamber discussing how to counteract social dumping. In this way, the economic bottom line will be very clear above the social bottom line, and it is against the alternative's vision that we see, as far as possible, an alignment of the social and economic bottom line. Indeed, in this case we agree that social rights must take precedence over economic freedoms in the event of a conflict between the two sets of rights. That is why we also support the introduction of a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon, as proposed by the European Trade Union Confederation in 2008, which is the basis of the resolution we are debating here. At the same time it is a rather entertaining day today, because I was very excited about the Social Democratic speech, and I can see that if DF chooses to defend the rights of Danish employees and ensures that you cannot come from abroad and subjugate our Danish model and subjugate Danish workers, then we have a majority which is not only new but also really exciting. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191809	Thank you. And then we move on to Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212191816	This is a really exciting debate today with many new positions. I myself was in the Chamber when we discussed it well over a year and a half ago, and I must be completely honest and confess that was also a special experience, because it was very much such a legal discussion between Jørn Neergaard Larsen, our then minister, who knows a great deal about this area, and on the other hand Mr. Finn Sørensen, who also knows a lot about this area. And then it really became a discussion about what was then in the various judgments. Since then, we have been discussing this and we have also discussed the European Union's social profile in general, not only in our party, but throughout the European Union, Macron, was mentioned earlier. That is why we have changed our position in relation to this proposal. For us, it is important that we have a more social Europe, because we also believe that it is one of the things that can stem the scepticism that we see towards the European Union. At the same time, we and I are also concerned that a more social Europe, which, on the other hand, goes in and interferes with national decision-making powers, will pose major problems. But what we are seeing now is a catalogue of social rights as a guide, not something which is legally binding and which, moreover, is entirely in line with the way we have arranged here at home. So a European Union that converges in Danish direction without being legally binding, we think it is fine. But it could be even better if it were then supplemented by such a social protocol here, which would be legally binding, but which only confirms national legislation. This will not be an intervention in the national decision-making powers, as I hear the Danish People's Party say. And that may be where you need to focus your energy up to second reading, because we disagree with the Danish People's Party if they think that this is an intervention in the national decision-making powers. We believe, on the other hand, that this can help to safeguard national decision-making powers, and that is why this catalogue of rights, which is not legally binding but which is a guide, combined with such a social protocol, will be a way of achieving a more social Europe which, at the same time, respects national decision-making powers. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192057	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192110	The pressure from the low-wage countries in Eastern Europe and the judgments of the European Court of Justice have put our labour market under pressure, and in the SF we fully agree that both the social partners and the Folketing can do more to ensure conflict law. We do not believe that we in the Danish Parliament can secure the entire conflict law as long as the European Court of Justice can interpret the current EU treaties and the current Posting of Workers Directive as it has done in relation to the Laval judgment, the Viking Line judgment and the Rüffert judgment. We need to clarify the interpretation of the EU Treaties themselves by means of a new social protocol, such as: The ESF, the European LO, has proposed. At the same time, we need to improve the Posting of Workers Directive on some crucial points. Both should be the work of the Danish Government in the European Union. However, even if there is no prospect of a new social protocol or an improved posting directive just tomorrow, the Folketing can actually do much to secure conflict law and thus ensure that foreign workers in Danish jobs get better pay and working conditions, and secure Danish jobs against social dumping from foreign companies and underpaid workers. Since the enlargement of the European Union to include the countries of Eastern Europe, the trade unions in Denmark have been working on a permanent basis. Moreover, I am sure that, in the longer term, enlargement of the European Union will be a gain for all of us, both in the democratic and in the economic sense. But here and now we have to say that it also presents us with a number of challenges, especially when moneymen from Eastern Europe and cynical Danish intermediaries see an opportunity for a quick profit by underpaying the employees. Foreign companies and employees are so welcome in Denmark, but they do not have as much as one small hammer punch to do in this country, if they do not respect Danish agreements and Danish trade unions, comply with our health and safety legislation and otherwise pay VAT and tax. The competition for jobs must take place on fair and equal terms and not by looking at who can fastest tighten the belt. And if we are not awake now, we may well later be accused of having slept per hour while the Danish labour market was put on sale. If we do not manage this area, the consequences for the whole of society in just a little longer term will become completely incalculable. Experience from Germany and England shows the risk of not tackling the challenges in time, because in those countries wages are under pressure and the trade unions are on their heels. There are, of course, some people who think it is really nice with such a robber capitalism, but the effort in that poker game is thus the very Danish way of organizing the labour market. And mostly, when we talk about welfare, it is of course about tax, transfer income and public service, but for ordinary workers, welfare is very much a matter of access to secure and orderly conditions in the labour market. That is why it is not just a trade union matter but simply a public matter. It is about defending our welfare society and the Danish way of organizing the labour market. The trade union movement is doing a huge task here for the benefit of the whole of society for its own resources, and this is strictly not sustainable in the long term. Why is it that trade union members, more or less alone, have to finance that effort through their quota? In order to carry out this task, it will be absolutely necessary that we have the opportunity to use the tools they need even more than we do today, both the trade union movement, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the SKAT. And it is necessary that we constantly adapt the tools and efforts in relation to the task. After all, the situation is that the labour market has been shaken by the judgments that have been passed by the European Court of Justice. And for the SF, it has always been important to follow two tracks in this work: on the one hand, a national track where we direct the legislation so that here and now, as far as possible, we free the Danish labour market from the consequences of the unfair decisions of the European Court of Justice and, on the other hand, an EU track where we have some arrangements that will ensure that the European labour market is organised in respect of national systems and traditions. It is absolutely crucial for the SF that we get an agreement at EU level that cannot be amended afterwards by the European Court of Justice. If we do not get such a guarantee, we simply run the risk that the curtain may later be pulled away under the trade unions' right to dispute for an agreement and that the curtain will thus be pulled away under the labour market, as we know it. There is a risk that we will open a barn gate for social dumping, where Danes are competing out of their own jobs by employees from low-wage countries. I don't want a Trojan like that to be shut inside. Even with legislation, even with a new posting directive and even with a social protocol, one should not think that the problems have just been solved, because there is already a very low minimum payment in agreements we have today. What I'm trying to say is that an agreement doesn't in itself solve all the problems. The conclusion is that it is a good debate that Enhedslisten has raised, and we think the proposal that lies here deserves support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192639	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192650	I can't add much. I have been well covered by the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left. We are not voting in favour of the resolution, and that is perhaps enough because we do not regard social dumping as a quite as big and urgent problem as Enhedslisten does, although we certainly recognise that there are issues. And we are also voting against it because we find it difficult to see that we should be able to get a treaty change pressed through. So thank you for the proposal, but we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212192736	Thank you very much, and thank you for a very good and exciting debate, which perhaps did not quite develop as I had imagined a few months ago. But it's nice to be surprised when it comes to the good side. And thank you to the opposition parties, who are now gathered to support this proposal, on which we have discussed many times and could not quite agree. It's nice when you've argued so much for it that we can now be together about it. There are some perspectives in which I shall come back to the end. But first I want to say that this debate has confirmed that there is a contradiction in this Parliament which we have always known was there, but now it is, as it were, very clearly drawn up. Because we have heard the rapporteurs from the governing parties recognise that they do not actually see social dumping as such a problem that we need to try to change EU rules and protect workers' rights against the attacks that have notoriously come from the European Court of Justice. That is where the rapporteurs think, and it was clearly stated by the rapporteur of the Left that if the European Court of Justice intervenes in our rights, then we just have to correct it, as was done with the Laval judgment. It is true that a national legislation was drawn up here in Denmark which has tried to contain some of the problems, but there Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, who unfortunately has left, he is not; it is because I thought the rapporteur should sit over there on the right; I was confused that the rapporteur suddenly placed himself here on the left, after all, listening to the Danish trade union movement. The LO has in fact come to the realization that it was a kind of B-agreement which was forced to be introduced on the basis of the Court's ruling, and the LO tried, pragmatically as they are, to contain the problem. But this does not prevent the LO from supporting the demands of the European trade union movement for a social protocol. I must remind you that it has not been many weeks since Lizette Risgaard, Chairman of the LO, made clear his support for what the opposition has also gathered here today. So it should be noted that there are some nuances there. In other words, we are trying to limit the harmful effects of national legislation, but we would like a solution which would provide a completely differently strong protection of employees' rights. The contradiction I have described is also the one we are experiencing in the context of the Finance Act, in which the opposition is once again united on a good and strong proposal that the government's efforts to combat social dumping should be brought back to the level agreed by the opposition with its financial law of 2015, and that this should then be made a permanent appropriation. We do not see the will to do so in the draft budget, which is once again an expression of the fact that, on the part of the government parties and perhaps also of the majority, social dumping is basically not regarded as the major problem at the end of the day. In essence, the government parties are perhaps particularly satisfied with the fact that there is more competition among employees, because everyone knows that this leads to wage restraint and a lack of courage and a lack of faith in the defence of their rights to employers when there are so many in the queue outside the gate who are willing to deliver the same benefit at a lower price. I am thinking in particular of posted companies. I am glad that the debate that has taken place has also clarified what the proposal is actually about. This is precisely not a proposal, as some people are trying to put it, that now we need a whole lot more EU regulation. After all, both the Social Democrat rapporteur and the radical rapporteur were very clear in their saliva. This is about protecting the rules that have now been established in each country, about professional and social rights. It is about protecting national rules and precisely restricting the EU's ability to intervene in national regulations to protect employees. That's really good. Then I do not need to spend so much time explaining that what the proposal by the European trade union movement is actually about is ensuring an interpretation of the Treaty, which prevents the European Court of Justice from going in and weakening workers' rights on the grounds of economic freedoms. So thank you for your help as well. It is also true, as the radical rapporteur said, that this proposal may well exist alongside the proposal for a social pillar, which is in fact something quite different, namely a long catalogue of rights. Then we can discuss whether this is something that the European Union should even define. Perhaps there is a contradiction there, but not, as has been described today, where the social pillar, which the Commission is talking about, does not have any legal binding and therefore cannot be used to interfere with national rules. So thank you for the clarification there too. Then I also fully agree with Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, who says that even if we had to come through with this social protocol, it does not solve all the problems. On the one hand, we need to do much more nationally, and I believe that SF and Enhedslisten are very much in agreement on this, probably also the Alternative, perhaps more than we can do, and on the other hand we can do much more to ensure that these work clauses are used when the public service is providing tasks. We can ensure that this is done on proper pay and working conditions. There we can do much more. In fact, we could also introduce legislation on chain liability without EU law coming and pounding on top of our heads, just to mention some things. There are many things we could do nationally to support that the trade union movement was given better opportunities to ensure equal rights for all workers in this country, no matter where they come from. But we also agree and I am very pleased that it would strengthen Danish trade unions, strengthen the opportunities for Danish employees and also the trade unions of the other countries to ensure equal conditions for employees and ensure the protection of employees' rights and the rules which could now have been reached in that area in the individual Member States if we could get through such a social protocol. Then Enhedslisten is by no means naive. We are fully aware, as has also been said, of the fact that we must be honest, we must not blind ourselves to the fact that it requires unanimity to get through with it, because it corresponds in substance to a Treaty amendment. This requires the government of a country to raise this question and say to the other countries: you know what, if we are to secure support for the whole EU project • because it is not only in Denmark that the discussion rumbles • then you have to introduce such a social protocol as proposed by the European trade union movement. And I would just like to say that the first condition for having this discussion is that one of the Member States raises it to the others and either says that we must now have an Intergovernmental Conference where we are discussing it here, or is drawing it forward in the context of a Treaty amendment, in which we have a strong opportunity to convince the others that it needs to be included so that we can join ourselves in what is otherwise a treaty amendment. And there I would just like to say, with the support of the opposition parties today, that we have come one step closer to the point where a Danish government can raise that discussion with the other EU countries. Of course, I'm really happy about that. Then it will be really exciting in the further process where the Danish People's Party lands. I have listened with great attention to the fact that the door has not been completely closed. I have also listened to the fact that perhaps we have misunderstood what the proposal is about, and that is why, of course, on the part of Enhedslisten, we will have a discussion with the Danish People's Party's EU rapporteur and explain that nothing should be more natural for the Danish People's Party than to support such a proposal, precisely because the core of it is to protect the rules on employee protection and social rights that we have adopted here in Denmark, and to protect the model of agreement which the Danish People's Party is also a warm supporter. So I look forward to it very much. Okay, maybe the trees aren't growing into the sky, but we are in a situation where we really just lack the votes of the Danish People's Party, so we will be able to require the government already in place to work for this requirement, and it would be very gratifying if we could get there. So we are working comfortably on and looking forward to the further consideration of this proposal. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212193702	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171212193718	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 December 2017 at 10:00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
