ParlaMint-DK_20170124140003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S) and Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S): Request no. F 35 (Will the Minister explain whether, like the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, she considers that inequality does not pose a problem in Denmark and that economic inequality is not worth dealing with?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I should also like to point out that statement No. R 7 on the development of EU cooperation in 2016 is not negotiated, as previously announced, on Thursday 9 February 2017. On the other hand, the debate will take place on Tuesday, 21 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140043	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140124	The debate is open, and I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Socialist Group, Mr President. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140146	Thank you. After all, the draft law here is part of the implementation of the agreement to find a different financing for investments in green conversion and renewable energy than by covering the costs of the PRS tax, as has been done so far on a large scale. The agreement is, of course, above all a good piece of political craftsmanship, in which, for our part, we have ensured that green ambitions are maintained and that the funding of green conversion has been made in a socially balanced way. Indeed, the agreement itself ended very far from what was the Left's starting point and which had not been a good solution to the problem that had arisen with the PRS as a form of financing. The government wanted to get rid of a number of wind turbine projects, they stay. The government wanted to abolish the green cheque and thus allow those with the lowest incomes to pay for the green conversion, nor did it happen. Instead, socially balanced funding has been found, and it is reflected in the legislative proposal we are debating today. For us, the PSO agreement offers a number of advantages. Firstly, the financing of the green conversion, which we consider to be very important, was challenged. It is now secure in the years to come. The coastal windmills are being built despite the resistance of the Left. It provides immediate jobs and is also a good showcase for the important Danish wind turbine industry. Most importantly, it also maintains a credibility about being able to invest in the industry in Denmark, where the uncertainty that had begun to spread among interested investors was, in our opinion, very unhealthy. In addition, business, not least industry, agriculture and tourism, achieves a significant competitive advantage compared with foreign competitors. It is not because we have Europe's highest energy costs in advance, at all, but because we took part of the fall in costs to finance the green conversion via the PRS tax, the competitive advantage that others gain from the full benefit of lower energy costs was only achieved in Denmark. So it's not like that anymore. You get a competitive gain, and it is good for Danish employment and Danish companies, which are often more environmentally conscious than companies in other countries. Finally, the use of electricity is generally cheaper, and it is an advantage over other fuels that pollute more. We are also discussing a lot of electric cars in these weeks, for example. It will therefore be cheaper to charge your electric car if you have one of these and make the economic consideration of having such a more positive one. Also in relation to different individual framework areas, it is an advantage that the flow has become cheaper. The bill contains concrete increases in the slanted tax ceiling and a slightly higher base tax. It is 0.9 per cent that the bottom tax will be increased by when the agreement is fully phased in in 2025. In addition, there is the solution that was found about the green check, where the general green check becomes slightly smaller. The supplement to the green cheque for those with low incomes is, on the other hand, retained and, as a very important thing for us during the negotiations, it is therefore ensured that folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners are completely freed from the reductions in the green cheque. Together, it provides revenue for the State of 1.4 billion. kr. in 2025 and 930 million. kr. In terms of lasting impact, money is used to finance the expansion of renewable energy and the green transition in Denmark. The agreement is an example of how we can cooperate widely in the Folketing on important agreements. We believe, for our part, that the Social Democrats have made a significant impression on the agreement. Of course, it is given and taken, but we are quite satisfied with it as it has ended up being. However, we would urge the government to read the majority conditions better here in the Folketing and to understand a little more quickly that we have to make concessions to get an agreement in place, rather than as happened here, that you challenge existing agreements for months to see if you can change them. The same is true, in fact, of the course of the police school that we are going through in these weeks, when there are agreements in the police conciliation circle, which we would actually just like to have passed, rather than the government trying to challenge the very same agreements. Without the long period of apostasy and postponement of the negotiations, there would also have been time for the usual consultation period of four weeks, which the draft law must observe that there has been no time for. Hopefully this can be done better another time, by the government reading the majority in the Folketing a little more quickly. However, the very political content of the draft law on a slightly higher base tax and a change in the green cheque, as my speech has shown, we can support, and we therefore support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140625	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140629	I would just like to ask the Social Democrats something. Now we are abolishing the PSO, and in view of what we know about the effects that the PSO has had on the Danish economy, namely the huge so-called distortion losses it has caused, was it a mistake back in 1998 • do I think it was the introduction of the PSO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140654	This may be an interesting historical discussion, but it can also easily be a bit counter-productive to enter into what would have happened if we had not done so. I think it's obvious where we've got to. We have now been able to find another way of doing it, which is better. But I also believe that it would be right to say "and it is just my assumption of how the historical course would have been; I cannot prove that it would probably have been difficult to find the funding and get through with it on an ongoing basis if you had not had a mechanism such as the PESO, which has thus made it possible to finance a massive expansion of renewable energy in Denmark and which has made us one of the leading nations in the field. It may be that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has a different opinion, but I still believe that it has been the key to getting it going. Now we are in a new situation and we have found a better solution for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140759	I do not really think that is so counter-productive. The truth is that the way to collect money to subsidise certain companies through such a tax is, of course, the very way to do it, whether to do it or not, an independent discussion was also warned against at that time, and it was warned that it would lead to a socio-economic loss. That was and is a very ineffective way of collecting money. There is also a recognition of this when we now abolish it and want to do it in a more effective way. In fact, I think it is liberating when politicians can admit: yes, we made a mistake at the time, and we recognise that today, and therefore we abolish it. I think that would dress up for the Social Democrats as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140848	Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was able to guarantee that if we had not made the PSP as a model at the time, we would still have been able to provide all the means which have made it possible for us to have such a massive expansion of wind energy in Denmark? It has, of course, made it clear that, when it comes to this field, we have both an industry on which we make an enormous amount of money and which has many people employed, but also an energy system which is very green. I'm not really sure you could have done that. However, if we are to have a longer historical reflection on this, we can pursue it in the discussion of the draft law. But on the bottom line is that we now agree to find another mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140931	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124140934	The PSO tax that has been imposed so far has, of course, been imposed under a system in which there has been pressure of 7-8 billion. kr. in a year, a scheme to which we all have to pay for citizens and businesses. Each time 1 kWh was spent, 25 cents were added to the price, and the 25 cents have been put in a box which could then be used for the green transition and conversion to a society based on renewable energy. What I think little was missing from the rapporteur's speech was the fact that the primary reason for converting the financing of renewable energy from the PSO scheme into a financial law is, of course, that the government has wanted to do what they themselves call a historically great relief of tax for business. Business has so far paid approx. 3 billion kr. a year to this scheme out of the 7-8 billion. kr., but now business no longer has to pay. And I think that the rapporteur's speech lacked the fact that this is an historic reduction in the tax burden on business. So why should industry not contribute to the green transition, as has been the case in the past? And why are it the low-income people who are going to pay for this, which is, after all, the consequence of the funding that has been chosen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141055	I actually have a little difficulty understanding Enhedslisten's opposition to these things, because the important thing was to ensure that there was funding for the green transition to continue. This is done in a way where for most families it will probably go roughly zero, you get a lower electricity bill, and you have to take a little more into bottom tax, so it goes up fairly well; for folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners this will actually be a financial gain. I don't think you should put people in more perspective than you can hold. So I think that for most people it will go up somewhat, but there are also groups for which it will be a financial gain. The fact that we can then at the same time give our competitive industries in industry, tourism, agriculture and other things a competitive advantage does not make me see why it is bad in itself if we can actually do some other things that simply make this work better. I sometimes think that Enhedslisten may be a little ideologically blinded by the fact that if something is good for business, it is in itself bad, and I just cannot really follow that line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141203	We just find it incredibly difficult to understand that a business sector that has profited very well from falling electricity prices due to the large amount of renewable energy and electricity that has entered the market, and hence lower electricity prices, should not contribute to the financing of the green transition. At the same time, we find it incredibly difficult to understand that those who then have to pay are the ones with the lowest incomes, who are the ones who will pay when you remove some of the green check and when you raise the bottom tax. We simply cannot understand that. It is also important in this context that electricity prices for the Danish economy are already at the low end of the EU, so it is only right that the business community should also contribute to the party, when it has also benefited from the green transition so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141247	As Mr. Rune Lund also wants to know that there are a number of business aid schemes which, with this agreement, will also cease to exist. So in this way it can be said that there are some conditions, some favourable conditions that business has, which it will no longer have. It is also in the agreement, so it is just not part of the bill we are discussing now. But again I have to say that I do not think it is bad if the people we want have jobs in industry, tourism and agriculture, etc., and for example. In agriculture, which is, of course, subject to some requirements in Denmark, it is rarely better to produce under more environmentally harmful conditions, at least climate-laden conditions, in Poland or elsewhere in Europe. That is why I think it is good if we can give these companies a competitive advantage and get more employment in Denmark. At the same time, we have made sure that we have the same money as it takes to get even more renewable energy in Denmark, and this does not cost ordinary people money. They get a lower electricity bill and have to pay a little more tax. It's pretty much straight up. So, sir. Rune Lund's presentation is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141401	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141404	Thank you. In the alternative, we have been very keen to maintain the PRS tax. We will probably not change each other's views on that today, so I would rather use this first reading to get a little bit more focused on what elements we might have overlooked in the alternative. 'Cause I basically agree with Mr. Knox. Rune Lund in the considerations he made in relation to the fact that something is being relaxed, we should call it the polluter or the burdener, and then it is being paid by the taxpayers. In principle, there is nothing wrong with this, but is it not also the rapporteur's view that there is a relaxation for the business sector, which may actually be responsible for pollution or the burden here, and that instead of being put on the taxpayer to pay the bill? That is at least the view we have had so far, and that is why we think that funding is biased. It seems to me that this is wrong, but if helping the business community does benefit taxpayers in the end, then I can follow that line of thought. It's just not right where we stand. But is it not true that what is happening here is a relief for business and a burden that is being placed on citizens in relation to tax payments in isolation at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141526	Well, quite immediately, it is a relief for not least those companies that use a lot of power. Why it should be bad in itself and why it is a bad idea that our industry or our agriculture or our tourism are better in competition with other countries about where employment lies, I cannot go home to the energy-intensive companies in my constituency and explain if we can find in a better way the money needed to spread renewable energy in Denmark. And that money lies here; even though the government would have liked to have had fewer of them, they are here now in that agreement because we have entered into it. But if, at the same time, we can benefit employment and ensure that the money for green conversion is there and that there is a good social balance in the alternative funding that has been found, then I simply find it hard to understand that the mere fact that there are some companies benefiting from it should make it ideologically dazzling and say that this is a bad idea. I have to say that it may well be that you agree down there, but I do not think there are any very good arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141636	No, I was actually trying to recognise that I understand the reasons, and that is certainly not because the business community benefits from it, that we do not think it is a good idea. My idea is, if I am going to try to move into a solution: how does the rapporteur see the incentive for business to grow new technology in particular, grow the green transition forward, if they lose it here, yes, what is to be said about motivation that they can get things cheaper in the future if they do so in a sensible way and we keep ourselves competitively in the lead with green technology? At the moment, at least, I see that there is an important desire on the part of companies to develop new technology in this area, because you see that there is a tax if you do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141721	That is clear, and it is not, of course, because it has become free for companies to use electricity. In other words, if they can reduce their costs by using less energy, it is still good for them. Nor is it the case that we no longer have electricity tax in Denmark. We just don't have the PRS tax anymore. So, of course, there will still be the incentive, which lies in the general fact that it will benefit you if you can reduce your costs. But we must also look at the fact that it is now a question of whether it is electricity or other fuels and energy sources that are being used. And there we have come to the conclusion that precisely because we have developed renewable energy so much in Denmark and the flow has become as green as it is despite the resistance of the bourgeois side of the Danish Parliament it is better than so many other forms of energy. It is better that electricity is used than so much else, because it simply puts less pressure on the climate. This, too, is a step in that direction. It's just gonna be cheaper to charge the electric car that I know you have, and that's good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141822	We just have to remember indictment in the third person, even though it was meant well. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124141836	As has already been mentioned, this proposal deals with the abolition of the PSO tax, a tax which we in the Danish People's Party considered to be a really bad construction, in the sense that it made an agreement with a wind turbine owner that he was guaranteed a price • it could be 70 øre or more or less • and that then it was supplemented in relation to the spread between the electricity price and what had been guaranteed to the wind turbine owner, i.e. the PSO tax. The challenge with this construction has been that when you could see that the electricity price in the Danish landscape or across Europe had fallen, the price was artificially high for among other things. Danish companies and Danish consumers, because they had a PRS tax that would then increase accordingly. It was really bad for Danish business and therefore also for Danish labour, which is why we actually think it is superpositive that we find here another funding for the green transition. We think this is a very good thing both for the business community and for ordinary Danes, and I do not think it is a contradiction that needs to be seriously worried about. Because it goes well for the Danish business community and if they can produce at cheaper prices, then they can export something more, and that means that more people are going to work in Denmark. It may also give a higher salary. It is actually quite positive in this way, especially since you can now see that it has been seen during the negotiations, I have not been able to see it in the bill, but people can also ask about it in committee that it actually for all family types gives a plus on the bottom line with this exercise. It is quite positive, of course. After all, the bill is so specific about part of the funding in this agreement on the PSO. The base tax should rise slightly, i.e. 0.08%, as far as I remember when it is fully phased in, and the green cheque is cut for a part of the Danes, but I also think it is important that you get that pensioners and early retirement pensioners are exempted here so that they retain the amount they have always had. So I think this is a good compromise. I think there are many parties that have each had their own views. I think, for example, that it is quite bad that we did not get rid of the coastal mills, and there were others in the conciliation circle who thought that was a very good idea. That is the way it is when you enter into agreements, i.e. that there are good things as well as bad things. But I think that the positive thing about this is that there has been a possibility of funding the green transition, for which there is a broad majority in the Folketing, and that is quite important indeed. So with those words, I can say that the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142103	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142114	Thank you for the floor. Back in November 2016, the Left Government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, has made an agreement on the abolition of the PSO tax. The agreement is a good compromise between the parties and a long-term solution that changes the PSO system and ensures the green transition. It is a good agreement that unites the common interest in the green transition and our goal of becoming independent of fossil fuels by 2050. At the same time, the agreement ensures that Danish industry becomes more competitive. We know that Danish companies are more energy efficient than many of their competitors abroad, but they have had difficult conditions because the costs have been so much higher in Denmark. So that's also some of what we're gonna take care of with this deal. This bill contains two elements of the agreement. It was important to find a solution that was fair and affordable, both for business and for ordinary citizens. Some of the parties wanted to finance the abolition of the tax on the base tax, where others wanted to abolish it by abolishing the green cheque. A compromise has then been reached on this in the context of funding. It has to be said that we in the Left wanted to reduce the bill. That is also what the Social Democrats were talking about. We wanted to say no to the coastal mills. We believe that it is disgusting for us Danes when we walk along the Danish beach to look out at the coastal mills, so we would actually have liked to have seen that we could have taken the opportunity to get rid of them. But there was no majority in favour of this and, of course, we bow to the majority; that is something we must accept. The first part of the bill proposes to increase the bottom tax rate by 0,05 percentage points in 2018 to 0.09 percentage points in 2022 and thereafter. In parallel, the increase in the slanted tax ceiling on personal income is introduced. The second part of the bill is to reduce the green check by 165 DKK. in 2018 rising to 350 DKK. in 2025. The additional green check is reduced proportionately. However, it is not intended to reduce the green cheque for pensioners and early retirement, so it will remain the same for this group. The common solution resulting from this bill will long-term guarantee our green transition, while at the same time strengthening the competitiveness of Danish companies. Overall, this will mean an economic gain for households. So the Left can support the bill in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142350	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142355	Thank you. SF is also included in the agreement, and of course I will say a little about that when I come to the platform myself, that is to say, why we are it. However, will the rapporteur, and this is really just a very specific question, recognise that when various ministers and rapporteurs have been out saying that the EU had declared our PSO system illegal, it is simply not right, as was also stated in the Detector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142426	As I understand it, we have received a recommendation to change our tax. But I think there's a lot of good arguments for doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142436	When I ask, of course, it is because, whether you are in an agreement or not, it is reasonable also when it is a debate that will fill as much as the PRS tax has done that you are very precise. And it has been established very specifically that the Commission had raised doubts about the way it worked, etc. and so on, and this could be done by turning a number of things around and opening up to foreign companies, but the Commission does not have the power to declare it illegal; that can only be done by the European Court of Justice. So the PSO system was by no means declared illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142514	No, but the probability would be that we would get a verdict against us when the Commission says the things they say. So we wanted to work against better knowledge. Everything would argue that we would get a verdict against us if we were tried in the courts. And it is very often that we take things at the forefront and say that here we will get the whole system against us, and that is why we are acting. So I think it is entirely within the framework, and if we had not done so, we would have risked a trial that we could very likely lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142542	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142545	I would like to follow up on what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says. It was quite wrong when the government went out and said that the PSO regime we have had is illegal. One thing is about collection. Twenty-five cents per penny is added. kilowatt-hour on top of the electricity bill for citizens and businesses. They're gonna come over in a box. The collection is perfectly legal. Then there's the handout from the box. The EU then takes the view that some of the money should be able to go to foreign companies, not only to Danish companies. That is what the European Union has criticised, and that is what could have been done, for example. to create a German scheme where one simply reserved part of the PRS in the box for foreign companies in the same way that Danish companies working with renewable energy can apply for the PRS that the German state has in the box which is used for the development of renewable energy. In view of this, can the rapporteur not recognise from the parliamentary platform that it was wrong that it was manipulation when the government said that the PRS scheme was illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142654	It has become very modern to have to recognise all sorts of things that we do not agree with. If I don't think it's a mistake, it's pretty hard to admit a mistake. But Mr. Rune Lund himself says that there were parts of the scheme that were not in line with what the EU prescribes: when we charge it nationally, we also have to distribute it to foreign companies. We weren't interested in changing the model like that. It may be that Enhedslisten was interested in it. We weren't interested in that. That's why we've found this solution instead of which we think is much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142729	I find it interesting that the rapporteur says that the government is not interested in that model when Denmark has already used that model once. It was in the context of the supply of 20 MW solar cells that have been implemented in Denmark. Of these, 2.4 MW have been reserved for foreign firms. In other words, we have used a model for the supply of solar cells which is fully in line with EU rules and which, at the same time, is based on the PRS system that existed. So can the rapporteur at least not recognise that this has happened and that we could have allowed the PSO system to continue? We could have avoided making a tax relief for the economy of 3 billion. kr. a year, if only you'd wanted to. But that's not what the government wanted. The government would have a historically large reduction in taxes on business.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142821	The Left was not interested in a solution that was about us going to reserve money for foreign companies with this scheme. We were interested in a solution that was long-lasting, which continued to secure the money for the green transition, but which also ensured that we had a system that was in line with EU law. I think we've landed it really well. I think it is a good thing that we receive tax relief both for ordinary people and for companies. It improves our competitive environment and provides better growth opportunities in Denmark. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142852	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142855	There was a story going on about Facebook, among other things. had chosen to lay their activity here in Denmark, at Odense, because of the abolition of the PSO. The rapporteur should in no way be responsible for whether it is right or wrong, but at least it is reported from Facebook that this was not the reason why it was chosen. Indeed, the abolition or retention of the PRS tax did not matter. If there are other examples of companies from outside of this caliber it may be difficult to get up to facebook level, but therefore large companies have said that it was simply crucial for them to get to Denmark that they abolished it here. It seems that it is a trend in Europe that one might want to impose this type of tax. If it is a competitive advantage of the caliber that people simply opt out of Denmark because of this, maybe I can approach the point of view, but I just haven't noticed it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142941	Now it has long been a stated objective to change this PSO tax, and therefore there are a number of decisions to settle in Denmark, probably also with the expectation that something happened to the PSO tax. So I clearly believe that it has an impact on our competitive environment to ensure that we get good companies to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124142959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143001	But that is not something that the government or the rapporteur had been informed of, namely that Facebook should have a certain interest now that we do not have other examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143012	I am not going into specific examples. I can't do that either. What I can just say is that it is of course important to attract companies to Denmark, and I note with great pleasure that we have at least got quite a lot of large, energy-intensive companies to Denmark, and I certainly believe that our level of taxation is important in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next in line is mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143050	The Enhedslisten was not included in the agreement to convert the funding of the green switch from PSO to a tax-financed scheme, and this is due to a number of factors that we believe make the agreement that has been reached highly questionable. First of all, we do not think it is right for the business community to have a great deal of relief, as Mr. and Mrs Denmark has to pay by paying more in the bottom tax and, for some groups, by reducing the green cheque at the same time. We think it is unreasonable to place the bill for the green changeover on households and at the same time exempt business from business as with the PSO scheme has paid around 3 billion. kr. a year to the scheme, while the citizens have been responsible for the rest of the payment. And what has business got out of the PSP? Well, we've got a lot of new renewable energy, a huge supply of electricity, which has meant lower energy prices • lower energy prices for business. Businesses in Denmark already have some of the lowest electricity prices in the EU. If that is the case, then it is only fair that the business community should also continue to contribute to the green transition, helping to pay both in principle, but if you also get so much out of it in kroner and ear, then it is only fair to pay. It has been quite clear what the government wanted to do with this right from the start. For the government has, from the outset, called the restructuring of the financing of the green conversion, i.e. the removal of the PSO, a historically large reduction in the tax burden on business. That's what this is about. That is what is at the heart of the agreement that has been reached. After all, we also have the energy conciliation, which is about the steps that need to be taken to work towards the green transition, and this is, of course, a settlement that Enhedslisten is part of. There are no coastal mills that could have been removed anywhere without it having been taken up in the energy reconciliation circle where Enhedslisten sits. The rapporteurs who have addressed this issue have, so to speak, misunderstood that there is an energy conciliation where Enhedslisten participates and where Enhedslisten also has a right of veto in relation to changes to the elements that form part of the energy conciliation. Secondly, we do not think it makes sense for the money to be found by reducing the green cheque and raising the base tax. It is, of course, a Band-Aid on the wound that there are some groups, for example. pensioners and early retirement pensioners who can keep the green cheque, but overall the financing model turns the heavy end down. And for example... The cash benefit recipient with two children in a rental apartment still reduces the green check by approx. 400 kroner. a year and pays 100 kroner. more a year in bottom tax. The exact figures can of course be read from Question No. 115, alm. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, who put it. There you can see what the economic consequences of this proposal are. It turns the heavy end down when you look at the direct effect of what the bill means in crowns and ears for ordinary people. Then it may well be that the Ministry recognises a number of dynamic effects of removing the PSO, which should give more money in households, but that money is only there assuming that the removal of the PSP leads to lower prices and higher wages, and it is uncertain whether the reality here will follow the spreadsheets in the Ministry of Finance. Thirdly, it is simply the case, as has been the case in the debate, that the whole premise for the removal of the PSO is wrong. This was not an illegal scheme, even though the government claimed it was illegal. Fourthly, if you were finally to change the PSP, you could have chosen a model in which, for example, you could have chosen a model. which in Germany can exchange PESO across the border. It would even have been a good economic arrangement for Denmark, as Germany gives 10-15 times as much more money to PSO than Denmark does. The solution and thinking in this way would also be a great economic advantage for Denmark. Fifthly, it is simply not true that industry was succumbing to the cost of the PSO tariff. The electricity price has fallen more than the tariff has increased, and the electricity price for industry in Denmark is already at the low end of the EU. We have received answers to this in several questions that have been asked in the Chamber here in the Danish Parliament. So it's all a really bad deal. The government has been determined to give the economy a huge tax relief, and the government has obtained a majority in the Folketing, including parties in the red bloc, which we think should have stayed outside such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143601	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143604	Thank you. There's a lot of things in mr. Rune Lund's speech, which I disagree with and which I could address, but I will just try to ask one question as to whether there is a social balance in these things or not, where I believe that the presentation is simply not correct. During the time of the previous government, the unitary list was very concerned about how the Gini coefficient fell when political agreements were made with the then government, and I would just like to ask Mr. Rune Lund to confirm that this agreement is actually a positive one in that the Gini coefficient is reduced by this agreement. Isn't that correct, sir? Rune Lund?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143648	I think the premise for the question that Mr. Jesper Petersen asks me to acknowledge the dynamic effects of the calculations underlying this agreement. Sir. Jesper Petersen and I have had the opportunity several times to discuss precisely dynamic effects, and we have both been very critical on other occasions about how dynamic effects are used in the Treasury calculator. What I can see in the reply from the Ministry of Finance to this particular question, 115, general part, of 18 November 2016, is that when you look at the direct consequences of the agreement to remove the PRS and raise the bottom tax and remove some of the green check, you can see that it systematically affects ordinary people • also people with low incomes. In general, it is also the most logical thing, because what can it be like when we make a historically large reduction in the tax on business of 3 billion? kr. a year that everyone seems to just get more? Well, that doesn't make any sense. That doesn't add up. That's why it's so problematic to use the dynamic effects that it's been used in connection with the conclusion of this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143808	I agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that you have to be careful how to use these dynamic effects. Sir. Rune Lund perhaps also noticed that in my speech I made a lot of sense not really putting a very fixed number of crowns and ears on the winnings for ordinary employees, who are there, if you just trust fully that they are all there and that you dare to say that it is this money that you make. But for most people, things are going up pretty much. For some of the lowest income groups, pensioners and early retirement, the electricity bill is actually being reduced so much, and you have such a small share of the funding that you get out of it positively. It would just be so fine if Enhedslisten would actually acknowledge that this is the way it is. Then I have to remind Enhedslisten that although I think you should be careful how sloppy you are about these effects, the same way was calculated when the security of supply charge was removed with the help of Enhedslisten and to great satisfaction for Enhedslisten, because it really signed out on the Gini Coefficient. So the criticism now is very badly in line with the satisfaction then. I think you should choose to be a little more consistent with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124143915	In the Enhedslisten, we also make compromises and we did so under the previous S-led government, but we have never liked the dynamic effects. We've never liked that way of calculating. We see it as birds on the roof; we very much perceive the way it is used as hokuspocus. We see it, for example. in relation to how it is calculated, what the effect is of lowering the registration fee, which costs 1 billion. kr. a year, but when you recognise dynamic effects, we are as low as around 300 million. kr. a year. I know, sir. Jesper Petersen agrees with me. We really have the same problem here. The problem is that you make an agreement that reduces tax by 3 billion. kr. for business per year. Then, logically, there are some who have to pay that bill. But then you've made a magic trick with the inclusion of dynamic effects, which shows that there really isn't someone who's going to pay because everyone wins. And we simply do not accept that calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144014	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144018	The PSO meant that a tax was imposed on ordinary people's electricity bill. The money from that tax was given to companies. When has the policy of Enhedslisten been taken away from citizens in order to give them to private companies? I think it is completely black what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, also on the basis of how I normally know Enhedslisten. It is simply in favour of subsidising companies with money taken from low-income families. That's Enhedslisten's position in this case... I think that's deeply weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144104	I would very much like to explain that. We are in favour of the polluter paying. When you use electricity as a citizen, you pollute, and when you use electricity as a company, you pollute. The PSO was an expression of the fact that the polluter has to pay. Twenty-five cents were added to the electricity price per year. kWh, and they came in a box and could then be used to promote the green transition. It is true that, in principle, taxes turn the heavy end down, because yes, the recipient of cash benefits pays 25 cents per annum. kWh in the same way as the Director of Northern Zealand. So how do we solve this problem? We have that problem, among other things. This will be solved by making the green check, the green bottom allowance, which will benefit low-income groups. Because we are both red and green in the Enhedslisten, so we know that the green measures needed to combat climate change can turn the heavy end down socially. Therefore, when making tax changes or increases that promote green conversion, we must always look at how, at the same time, we can ensure that inequality does not increase. We should very much like at the same time to ensure that inequality actually decreases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144218	The rapporteur must then be pleased to see that this draft law reduces inequality. But there are many things that are problematic about what the rapporteur is saying on the platform. For example: the cost of the PRSI tax was higher than the green cheque provided in deduction. So it was the case that money was taken from low-income families, and then large companies were subsidised for the same money. Well, it's not fair in my world. It is not fair in my world to subsidise any companies. The second is that this has not been good for the environment. This is due to some quite other things, namely that we have a quota system, so that when Denmark emitted less CO2 2 What remains is that we have had a tax that has resulted in a huge socio-economic loss, less prosperity for citizens and thus less welfare. We are doing that now, and I think it is very strange that the Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144327	When we do things in the green area that turn the heavy end down, we always make compensatory efforts, and we have done so in connection with the creation of the PSP and our role in it. And that's how it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says he's not right. The PSP has been crucial for the green transition in Denmark. It has meant a billion dollars every year, which has been able to go specifically to the green conversion, and without the PRS and that funding we simply would not have had the green conversion that we have today. There hadn't been that pace. If you don't mind, sir. Joachim B.. Olsen, I would say that we would not actually have had the low energy prices for business that we have and that they have received because of the large supply of electricity from renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144416	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144433	Thank you. The PRS was a mistake from the start. It was a freak of a tax and an extremely expensive way of financing renewable energy. When the PSO was introduced in 1998, there were some assumptions about how expensive it would be and what the tax would be, and the assumptions did not hold up in any way. The PSP became much, much more expensive at the time, it was 60-70 per cent. More expensive. This could actually have been foreseen, because the PSO was basically based on the absurd premise that we could foresee how energy prices would develop, and of course we could not. It has always puzzled me that the left in particular was so fond of the PRS tax, because it was a tax that turned the heavy end down. A tax was imposed on electricity and used the proceeds to subsidise large global companies. It is completely the reverse of what the left is talking about in other contexts, and we have always thought and still think that it is wrong to subsidise private companies. We are very pleased that the PSP is now being abolished. It has always been the policy of the Liberal Alliance to abolish it because it has led to a huge socio-economic loss. It has led to lower prosperity and thus lower welfare. It has led to lower wages for employees because it has reduced productivity. High productivity leads to higher wages and low productivity leads to lower wages. It has certainly also cost jobs in Denmark as a whole. The money that companies have had to pay in PSO has cost employment and this has not been offset by the employment that it has given to subsidising a particular industry. So it has in every way been a bad tax, and it is therefore equally good that it is being abolished now. We would have liked the funding to be different. The fact that we are now turning the bottom tax is a pity. It is a dangerous treasure to start screwing up, because it is so convenient for us politicians to turn 0.9 per cent. No one really feels that, and then you can use it over and over again. You have to be careful about that, and you shouldn't do it. It should have been financed by public expenditure, which in Denmark is already some of the highest in the world. There is plenty of scope to finance support for wind turbines etc. In addition, there is the environmental issue itself in this, which I think just so emphasizes the absurdity of our entire system. It is true that when we set up wind turbines and emit less CO2 2 But it is good that it is abolished, it is a pity that you raise the bottom tax. In our opinion, the PSO was completely unnecessary, but overall, and of course it should be included, this is an agreement that lowers the tax burden and makes taxpayers in Denmark quite broadly less expensive. That is why it is an agreement which, from our point of view, is moving in the right direction, and that is why we are in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144906	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144911	I have had the pleasure of negotiating agricultural package with the Liberal Alliance. And there we fought to increase the direct tax-financed subsidy for Danish agriculture. That's exactly the opposite, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says now. So I would like to ask whether it is a new attitude on the part of the Liberal Alliance that tax-financed support for agriculture should also be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124144937	Absolutely. There is no profession in Denmark to be supported. There is no industry in Denmark, any companies in Denmark, which must be subsidised in any way whatsoever. It's inappropriate, it's distorting the market. After all, there is the special situation in agriculture that the European Union has an extreme and not very market-friendly agricultural policy where there is a lot of state aid. I believe that Danish agriculture would benefit from the removal of agricultural subsidies in general within the European Union. We have a highly productive agriculture which we would be able to do well in a free market. So that's the way to go. But before you do that, you have to take stock of the situation we are in. And since there is agricultural support in the European Union, we have to take stock of it at home. But we do not think that agriculture should be subsidised either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145045	It's just weird when you fight directly for more money for agriculture. And it is money that comes in addition to the money that agriculture gets from the European Union. After all, you fought for the agricultural package to set aside even more tax dollars for agriculture. Why did you do that? There you have broken your own principle, and I guess it was before you came into government. So I guess it's actually your opinion that agriculture needs more support crowns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145113	I mean, I'm not an agricultural rapporteur. I haven't been in those negotiations. I have not been to the meetings that the questioner has been sitting with. But it has never been, and never will be, our policy that there are some professions that need state aid. This has never been the case with agriculture either. What I am informed of is, as I said, that there is an agricultural policy in the European Union. And we're gonna have to take some cutlery off it. However, we are working to ensure that there is no state aid for any agriculture in the European Union. There are plenty of good reasons for this, among others. also that it is crazy that, with agricultural subsidies in the European Union, we are closing off our markets for example. farmers in Africa and thus keep them poor etc. You should take that away. But that's where it needs to be fixed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145201	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145204	Thank you. After hearing first Enhedslisten's speech and opposition and now Mr. Joachim B. Olsens thought that there might be a need for such a little reading guide for those who one day had to go in and look at the record of this discussion, because it is striking how much Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is actually twisting over the funding that has been found at the same time as Mr. Rune Lund so strongly criticises the same funding from a completely opposite ideological point of view. But it might have to do with the fact that when you do this maneuvering to raise the bottom tax a little, it's matched for ordinary people by a lower electricity bill, but for those who pay a lot in this tax, it doesn't do the same to the extent that that's where the resistance of the Liberal Alliance comes from. So it's just a request for a confirmation from sir. Joachim B. Olsen says that what happens when you raise the bottom tax a little, as with this bill, is that some pay it out of a small income, but that if you make a lot of money, you pay this extra in tax and not just of what is above, for example. the top tax limit, but of the entire wage income after one's personal allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145317	It is quite true that this is the case, but it is not the socio-economic most rational way of financing the abolition of the PSO, because it means less labour supply, less employment to raise the base tax. We're behind this because, overall, it's moving in the right direction. It's not often I hear Enhedslisten be sad that you raise a tax, but I do share Enhedslisten's view in this area. We should not have raised the base tax in order to finance the abolition of the PSO. But overall it is moving in the right direction, overall it means that Danish taxpayers are getting rid of cheaper. There's just no reason to get the bottom tax in play here, and that's not the most rational way to finance the removal of the PSO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145419	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145421	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. What does this really mean for the Liberal Alliance's view of how much, from the party's point of view, we should ease the top tax in this parliamentary term? The Liberal Alliance has thought it was very important that it was lowered by this 5%. for all top tax payers. Does this mean that we now believe that we should go further, and is it a view advocated within the government of which the party has become a part?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145458	Let me make it quite clear that the Liberal Alliance believes that the top tax should be abolished, because there is also a huge socio-economic loss associated with the top tax. There is an incredibly high death weight in relation to the top tax, which is a very high level of self-financing to abolish it, it costs wealth. It should be abolished completely. However, the Liberal Alliance is part of a government that has written in its government base that it wants to reduce marginal taxation in Denmark. The government continues to do so, and I hope the Social Democratic Party will support that too; it has done so before, when it was thought that it was sensible to go down that path, precisely for the reasons I mentioned before, in view of the fact that from a socio-economic point of view it is a very harmful way of taxing. But the government still wants it to be confirmed by the tax minister that the marginal tax will be reduced. It's in the government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145557	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124145607	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative, we have always been very, very strong advocates, ever since we came to parliament, that the PRS tax was actually a dynamo for our green conversion, and the green transition is the three legs, economic, social and environmental sustainability, which we would like to support very, very strongly. Then today we have a discussion on how to finance a continued green transition when the PSO tax is removed. I will not spend so much time explaining why I think it is a damn shame to remove the PRS tax, but I will give you a few examples where I have at least just noticed some things today. I am actually in favour of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament's rapporteur's speech and the perspectives that have been there. I understand that attempts have been made to draw the agreement as far in a green direction as possible without distorting it in relation to inequality. I can then disagree with whether it is really, as was also stated by the Enhedslisten, such a calculation that actually ends up not giving a bias in relation to the fact that it is some wrong ones that pay, rather than the polluter. But it's a little reading material, and I'm going home and shower up on, because it may be that there's something about the talk. Another consideration is something I experienced at Dansk Industri last week, where I spoke to an entrepreneurial businessman who started businesses • several, I think • who told me that if there had not been a Svend Auken back many years ago, there was very, very ambitious with Denmark's policy in the green area, it is not certain that we in the cooling industry had had the advantages we have today. I asked you a little bit about it. I was not really sure that he would normally vote for the Social Democracy or the Alternative, that was the prejudice I had when I was talking to him. And we didn't really mention what he was voting for. It really didn't matter, but we just agreed that no matter what was voted, it was important that we found out what was our USPs in Denmark when we were going to be a businessman and to fight internationally. That is why we are so keen in the alternative that we must maintain a green transition, a very ambitious green transition, and also demand from companies that they offer, because it is also the livelihood of companies in the future that we are ahead of both technologically and simply operationally in relation to having a good green energy supply, because it is something they want to buy from abroad. If we look 30 years ahead, I don't really think so. Joachim B. Olsen say something else, if he disagrees, and the others in this Chamber, that we disagree so much that if we did not have to subsidise the green conversion and it was better for the environment and just as well for the companies, we would want a green conversion. It's just this thing about how we're gonna take the money, whether you're gonna support somebody over somebody else. There is what I am thinking that in 30 years' time I think we will be in a situation where technology means that we do not have to subsidise. So that is what we are saying right now in the Alternative: we need to point in the right direction. We have to say what we think is best for Denmark, where it is that we are going to compete. Because we're not going to compete on hours of work, we're not going to compete on who's most lenient with our work environment, who can just bust a fast shop up somewhere and then get over the steppes and get a market share, because there are some other countries that will have to do and do for all kinds of reasons, and there we are somewhere else in Denmark. So when we say in the alternative that we have to stand firm on, for example, the PRS tax or at least the new version, where we also want to support a green transition, which we are dealing with here, where I can then disagree with the funding, it is simply because we want the best for companies. When I talk to companies, they agree. This is the way we are going to go, but we just have to make sure that we give them an opportunity: what is the store we want tomorrow, that is, from Monday, and what is the store we want in the future, that is to say, the one we have to live on, and the one that is going to create new clusters in cleantech or green energy, or whatever it has to be? That is why I also think it is a pity that we cannot go much further on the premise that the PSO tax is not bad for business. But yes, it places a burden on industry now and here in relation to increased expenditure, but what are we hearing? At the same time, in the period it has been there, electricity costs in industry have been reduced on other fronts. This could then be a debate where we find out that one or the other is right, but it is certainly not clear that it will be more expensive for companies to operate here in Denmark because of the fact that we have a PRS tax. And in the future, we will be really, really happy that we have had an ambitious sustainable transition, which Svend Auken stood for many years ago, and which those managers who perhaps at that time thought it was quite annoying, today enjoy very, very well. We're gonna have that in the back of our head. Then there are two corrections. The one at the cozy end of Mr. Jesper Petersen: I don't have an electric car. I've invested in a hybrid car. It can't be charged, but it saves electricity. And to the left: I talked about Facebook before, and it is clear that it is not certain that Facebook is speaking out quite correctly when they say that the PSP agreement was not important to them. I'm just saying, at least that's what it's been saying. Then we shall have to judge whether we can count on it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150125	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150135	The Radical Left is fundamentally opposed to this bill, but we are voting for it anyway, because it is part of a larger agreement on which we have had some impressions. In the Radical Left, we would like to reduce the tax on labour and we do not mind putting taxes on pollution to finance lower taxes on labour. Lower taxes on work will have the effect that wages do not increase so much, and high wages one of the biggest challenges for Danish business, regardless of industry, to create jobs and prosperity in Denmark. This bill goes the other way. You remove a green tax and finance it, among other things. By raising taxes at work. We think that's a bad idea. When you look at electricity costs for Danish companies that are in competition internationally, prices have been just below EU level, so we did not think there was any reason to abolish the PSO tax for that reason. As I said at the beginning, this is part of a bigger deal where we got some other stuff through. Among other things: we maintained the green transition at the level we have agreed, although the Left Government would more or less like out of the 2012 agreement, which is the most ambitious climate agreement the world has seen today. We were able to maintain coastal offshore wind farms, which we would otherwise like to remove. We also got a new green climate pool of 350 million. kr. In the case of the United Kingdom, there will still be funding for green conversion in the years to come. And last but not least, we also got into the agreement that business must also pay part of the PSO abolition by removing what is called the renewable energy system for process. So we made some prints. There is funding for the green transition in the future, and we are very pleased about that, although we are not so happy about this particular bill. However, we are voting in favour of it, as it is part of the overall agreement that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150342	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150405	We have a government that conducts coal-black climate policy, and as I think it is also appropriate to say here from the platform that has conducted a disinformation campaign of rank; fake news, I think, is called New Danish. I think it is important to also comment on the process. It may sound a little boring, but even though SF is part of this deal, I think the process has been so inconvenient. No, the PRS wasn't declared illegal. It wasn't. It was run through by the TV program Detector... I'm sure you've all seen that. One energy professor and climate professor after another says: No, it is by no means declared illegal. The European Commission had some concerns, but at the same time said that I think it was my colleagues from the Enhedslisten who also mentioned that the Commission has actually approved the way the PSP system works today, i.e. in 2015 and 2016, because Denmark has opened some pilot renewable energy contracts. So the Commission said in principle: what you can just do is do what you do now and then, structurally speaking, continue like this in the future; then there are no problems. So we wanted, and we have said this over and over again, that we should do just as Germany did, that is to say to open up. That is why it did not make any sense when the old government said that it had a fundamental problem opening up to companies abroad that offer renewable energy could also benefit from the PRS funds; not as a principle, because that is what it is today. The truth is, of course, as the rapporteur of the Left actually said, that the Left has long wished to see the PSO abolished, because at the same time a great deal of tax relief can also be granted to companies. All this has been said over and over again by the SF, and once we have entered into the agreement with open eyes, it is because the majority was already there. The government had a majority in favour of abolishing the PSP, and in SF we think, in all modesty, that the green transition in Denmark has the best part to play in deciding in the future, too, together with the other green parties such as the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Now I do not see the rapporteur of the Radicals, but I would also like to thank the Radicals for the efforts they have made with us to include some green initiatives in the package, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg also mentioned in his speech about the climate pool. In the SF, we want a rapid transition to fossil-free society, and this is also absolutely necessary if we and the world are to live up to the Paris agreement to keep global temperature increases below 2 degrees. The hard work must, of course, continue in the climate reconciliation circle, also in the light of the changes in Danish energy policy that took place with the PSO agreement. So you can say: is it good or bad for the climate that support for wind and sun and biogas is moved from the electricity bill, i.e. the PSO? The answer is both-and. The agreement has disadvantages and advantages, and the disadvantage is that electricity consumption increases, but the advantage is also that electricity consumption increases, because both can be right at the same time. Increased electricity consumption as a result of a lower electricity price may reflect increased energy consumption and more climate pollution. petrol and oil, and the latter is good because electricity is the energy form that is most advantageously produced via renewable energy. In the SF we have also proposed that my party chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, should make a political decision this year to develop with four more offshore wind farms of the same size as Krieger's Flak, and this should be done in the course of the 2020s, because it will have to be decided next year if we are to have such a level playing field. It is affordable, precisely because the very high level of support for the windmills at Anholt lapses until 2025, and it creates space to finance the four parks we propose and more. Finally, there is much to work on. I also recognise the arguments put forward by the Alternative and Enhedslisten. There is also a discussion on the social battle page that I would very much like to take, and I would always like to discuss the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance, including here. And if I get a question in a few moments, which many may not be interested in, but which we are interested in, namely direct and indirect effects and structural effects, well then I would say that there are also some positive effects I am now looking at Rune Lund by moving it over. Then we can discuss how much of the effects you have to take with you, but we can discuss that if I have that question, because I do not have much more time. So SF joined a far from ideal PSP agreement because we got some of these perspectives into the deal and put a green pool of 350 million. kr., which will help some of the initiatives further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150938	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124150947	The draft law comes from a very sensible and broad agreement, namely the abolition of the PSO tax, which the Conservative People's Party can of course support. The bill we are discussing here today is about parts of the financing of this change. It has long been a wish from us to abolish the PSO tax because it helps to make Denmark poorer and, in some cases, may be a barrier to the green transition. Danish companies, in particular energy-intensive ones, are placed at a disadvantage in competition with their foreign competitors because of the PSO tax. It is logical and well-known, and we are obviously very happy that this is being changed now, so we are giving Danish companies better opportunities to maintain production and jobs in Denmark. In addition, the PRS tax also has a different negative effect, namely that it is a barrier to the green transition in some cases. I would like to give an example of this in the area of the electrification of maritime transport. It is the case that in Ærø, where I live, we are building the world's largest electric ferry, and in this connection the PSO tax has actually been a major obstacle. It has been a counter-player in trying to electrify our maritime transport. It is the case that oil in maritime transport is exempt from duty. Both heavy fuel and diesel fuels can be bought, traded duty-free, but that cannot be done with electricity. It is certainly not covered by the ordinary electricity taxes, but then there is the PSO tax, and it is the case that, as electricity prices have fallen, the PSO tax has increased. So it has actually been done that so far, power propulsion has not been able to pay for duty-free oil. And fortunately that is being changed now. With the agreement that has been reached broadly between the parties of the Folketing, the agreement that is the basis of the bill, we make Denmark richer, and then we also make it greener in some cases. We ensure better competitiveness for our business community and thus more Danish jobs, while maintaining and even in certain areas improving the conditions for the green transition. Of course, we can back that up. And then I am delighted that perhaps today we are doing the greatest business tax relief in history. So it's gonna be a big yes here from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124151221	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's line and we are giving the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124151234	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the bill in this Chamber. It is not because I am surprised that there is a broad majority in favour of the proposal, because it is, after all, the implementation of the agreement reached on the abolition of the PSO tax, and the PSO is responsible for the public service bond, which has been concluded by a broad majority of the parties of the Folketing during negotiations in the past year. The agreement abolishes the PSO tax in a way that ensures the long-term green transition, strengthens the competitiveness of the economy and, overall, provides an economic benefit to Danish households and families. The abolition of the PRS tax is in line with the government's overall objective of reducing taxes and taxes, so that it becomes cheaper to be a Dane and cheaper to run a business. It will benefit all of us as soon as taxes and charges on companies can be discussed to what extent, but at least to a certain extent they will be imposed on consumers who buy the goods and on the goods that are sold, so that better conditions for companies and less high taxes and taxes on what companies produce lead everything else to equal or should lead to cheaper goods for the benefit of those who buy. I am pleased that citizens and companies will have lower electricity bills as early as 2017. From 2018 until 2025, there will then be a quite modest increase in the base tax and a reduction in the green cheque. The overall tax relief for citizens and for businesses is significantly higher than the additional revenue from the increase in the base tax and the reduction in the green cheque. The draft law is therefore, in the view of the government, a sensible and balanced financing of the abolition of the PSO tax. And if I have to address some of the criticisms that have been made here, then I do not agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that the government has misinformed in the negotiations on the PSO tax. As described in the bill I think it is also described in a committee's response from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building, the European Commission has made a recommendation to Denmark, saying that the way we fasten the financing and coinage of the PSO is not in the Commission's view within the rules that apply. And, of course, we have had to take stock of that. But that has not been the only reason. And I am quite convinced that my colleagues in the government have mentioned quite a number of times, the fact that we have an unhealthy financial mechanism for the green conversion of the PSO. Why do we have that? Well, several rapporteurs have mentioned this: when there is a major socio-economic gain in abolishing the PSO, it is an expression of the fact that it has not been the smartest and most intelligent way of financing the green transition, and there is a very significant socio-economic gain in abolishing the PSO. That is to say, the bill by moving the funding from people's electricity bills into the finance bill is in the billions class, and that is because it is a more sensible way of financing the green conversion expressed or expressed by the PSP. It is also more sensible from a political point of view, understood in the sense that before we had abolished the PSP, we had a financing mechanism in which a group of politicians, some climate and energy rapporteurs, could sit and decide what to invest in by solar cells and wind turbines. To some extent it could be controlled, in a number of cases it has been shown that it was not possible to control how much was built. The bill for what was built, what was supported, was then automatically charged to the electricity bill from citizens and companies, and in this way a financial mechanism has been created whereby what I think Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also mentioned when it was started, thought that its scope was x number billions, and by vein the bill has just grown. At least for a tax minister who takes care of the tax money paid by citizens, it is worrying that you can have an automatic financing mechanism where there is no link between those who require the money and those who actually spend it. That is why it makes sense for the green transition to come up with the Finance Act, for the financing of it to be included in the Finance Act and for us politicians to give priority on equal terms to what else we want. And I am sure that it will continue to be possible to give sufficient priority to the green transition, even if there is now another financial mechanism. The agreement is also an expression of this. It is no secret that the government has had a desire to bring down the PRS bill. Partly in the negotiations, but not as far down as we wanted, Denmark is still a country that will invest billions of dollars in renewable green energy in the coming years, and that is quite fine. Another important argument for changing the PSP was, of course, what the Conservative rapporteur said, namely that we would end up with the problem that when we make a financing mechanism where the bill for renewable green energy is charged to electricity consumers, that is. citizens and businesses, then you get into a situation where you may be producing a lot of renewable green energy, but where the tax on the aid helps to ensure that for a lot of people it is not worth putting down their business in Denmark and using green electricity, or that companies and citizens choose to use anything other than green electricity, for example. fossil fuels instead. Therefore, in the view of the government, there are more gains in redefining the PRS than in complying with the recommendation of the European Commission. That is why we have done so, and that is why it is a sensible solution that has been found. And it is therefore a solution that significantly facilitates taxes and charges for citizens and businesses, while also maintaining a very high level of investment in green renewable energy. Anyway, with those comments, I would like to thank you for the debate we have had. I am, of course, happy to answer the questions that should be in this Chamber and during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124151934	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124151939	It may well be that the tax minister does not think that the government has misinformed, but there are a lot of quotes in which the Prime Minister, the Left rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Jensen and former Minister of Finance Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen says that it is illegal and contrary to EU rules, etc. Then it is just a little funny that the European Commission, through their spokesman, Ricardo Cardoso, says: No, to make it clear we have never concluded in a state aid case that the PRS tariff was illegal. Professor of Energy Law at University of Southern Denmark, Bent Ole Gram Mortensen, says: It is not true, it has not been before the European Court of Justice, they have not declared the PSO scheme illegal. And Margrethe Vestager, Commissioner, has also said that this is not true. So I simply believe that there has been a disinformation campaign, and I will stick to that. I do not think we will agree here, and I would therefore like to put a specific question to the tax minister, because I think it is now quite clear that the government has wanted the PSO tax removed, whether or not there was a hook. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152053	The Commission has considered that the PSO system is not compatible with the EU Treaty. Then there are different solutions that could have been chosen, that is quite right. When the government did not want to choose the opening solution, which I think was the solution that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen pointed out earlier in the debate, it is about the government's view and, in my opinion, as Minister of Taxation, I find it difficult to explain to Danish consumers, Danish taxpayers, that they have to pay over their electricity bill for massive solar installations, huge wind turbines in Germany. It's hard to explain why we have to fund it. It must be a task for Germany and the German taxpayers. That was the alternative, in other words, that we should open up the possibility of obtaining support abroad through this scheme, and the government has not wanted that for political reasons. It could have been chosen, it could have been done, it could have been done, it could have solved the problem along these lines, but it was not a viable path for the government to go, nor for a majority of the parties that are being negotiated with, as I understand it. However, there is no doubt that the Commission has approached and said: the system currently in place cannot continue because it will be incompatible with the Treaty on European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152206	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152208	I asked a specific question which I would like the Minister of Taxation to answer when he gets the floor again, namely whether the government and we can say the old government, the Left Government wanted the PSO tax removed, whether or not you could point to the European Commission and say that it was for that reason or not. I would just like to say a few words about the Commission's approval of the way in which we are doing it today. As the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten also mentioned, there is a pilot offer, so that is not something new we could have just continued with. However, I would just like answers to the specific question of whether it was the government's policy that the PRS tax should be abolished in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152254	Now it is with the previous government and the current government, but if we put all that aside, I can say that my party, the Left, has had the view for a number of years that we would like to remove the PSO and the financial mechanism that exists and instead fund the green transition through the Finance Act. We have put forward a number of arguments for this. Some of the arguments have been put forward here in my speech, namely that it is simply not a wise socio-economic way of financing the green transition and that it is an obstacle to us using the green energy that we produce. The further argument that has then been raised, which is also described in the previous government's constitution, is that there is also a problem with EU law. So even if that argument were not there, I think it would have been my party's policy that we should do something about the PSO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152341	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152344	I think that sometimes it is going to sound like the government doesn't matter which government it is we are talking about, but one of the last two is actually going to be very, very ambitious with the green transition. It is also the current government in relation to many other countries, but I would like to ask you quite specifically whether it is the Government's wish to maintain in the future the level of support for the green transition provided by the PSO agreement so far. Because that's what we're told here, you just choose a different funding. I think that this is a very unstable financing because it needs to be negotiated more often.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152424	I would like to thank you for the nuance that you can of course challenge this government's green ambitions, but if you compare our green ambitions and the funds we allocate in the Danish Parliament to the green transition and to renewable energy, with what happens in a large number of other countries around us and in the rest of Europe, Denmark is quite ambitious. Then, of course, one might wish that the government was even more ambitious, but I am glad that Mr. René Gade and the Alternative recognise that, compared with other countries, we are actually doing a great deal. In replying to the question, I can say that my resort is, in fact, only the financing part. The payment, how to spend the money, lies with the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Finance. However, what has been agreed has been agreed, namely that there must still be quite a lot of support for the green conversion. How to give priority to this in ten years' time, in 15 years' time and in 20 years' time to the financial laws of coming years, I think that the politicians of the future should be allowed to decide. We should not tie them on our hands and feet in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152533	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152536	I would very much like to say that I believe that Denmark is ambitious in relation to many other countries. What we can be nervous about is whether we are erodeing the foundation that has been created for our position, because that is something that takes a long time to create. So if we make the wrong choices now, we can very quickly find ourselves in a situation where we are very far from being the leader. And that's what I'm a little nervous that the government is actually getting into with some a little more handsome words than I actually think is justified. So I would like to ask the tax minister again: is it the tax minister's wish to maintain the same support for the green conversion that the PRS tax has provided so far? What lies in the wordings we have heard so far when it comes to financing is that that is what is being maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152617	Unfortunately, I cannot answer that question because it falls outside my remit. I mean, my job as tax minister is to get the money in, and in this area, as in many others, it is the job of the other ministers to distribute it. And that will now be subject to the general priority. But as the majority is in the Folketing, and with the Danish leadership in the green area, I have the expectation that we will continue to give it priority for many years to come. But to what extent it will be and whether it will be more or less than today, I cannot answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152649	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152651	I guess congratulations are in order. Congratulations on what the government itself calls a historically large reduction in the tax on business; a reduction of about 3 billion. kr. a year; a reduction which is paid by ordinary people and where the bill is even sent to those who have the least. It is a financing that turns the heavy end down. It is an agreement that has succeeded not only in bringing the Social Democratic Party along, but also the SF. I think I have to commend the government for having done a good job, which has also been seasoned at first with some falsehoods about what the PSP is really for a size and to what extent it was legal or not legal. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Taxation one thing: is the statement that the PSO agreement was contrary to EU rules, true or false?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152754	Well, even though I'm tracking some sarcasm in mr. Rune Lund's praise to the government is such that it is so rare for the government to be praised that although it comes from the Enhedslisten, I choose to perceive it constructively and positively. In relation to the answer to the question, I would say that it is the case that the financial mechanism is not, as I have understood it, contrary to the Treaty, but that the way in which we have chosen to implement the funding is the way in which we have opted for it. That is why there are a few more nuances to the question that Mr. Rune Lund asks that I not only answer whether it was true or false. However, it is beyond doubt that the Commission has considered that the Danish PSO system is not compatible with the EU Treaty. Then there were various ways of securing it, and one way is the way the government has chosen to do it along with a broad circle of parties. Another way is the opening system, which some parties in the negotiations have also argued for, but that has not been what has been agreed in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152900	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152902	The reason I am asking about the quotation that the PRS tax was contrary to EU rules is that those of us who sat and saw Detector on 1 December 2016 were able to hear the Prime Minister of the country pronounce exactly that sentence. However, I can now understand from the tax minister's interpretation of the Prime Minister's statement that what the Prime Minister really thought was that the funding itself was okay, but that it was the implementation of the funds that was then a problem. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124152937	If sir... Rune Lund will be absolutely sure how to understand this, and I shall avoid going into one of Mr. Rune Lund well-organized trap in relation to my answer, so I would rather refer to the excellent answer given by the Minister for Climate and Energy to Mr. Christian Poll, of the Alternative of 5 December 2016, who asked exactly the same question and where there was an explanation of what dialogue has been with the Commission and what the Commission considers to be legal and illegal within the PSP system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153008	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153025	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153047	Thank you. The year 2016 in Danish politics was, to say the least, messy and chaotic. To claim that it was running in oil for the then Left Government with one successful course after another would certainly be a false accusation. Among other things, it succeeded. the former Left Government to create great uncertainty and uncertainty about the housing tax in future and thus also the corresponding insecurity for the Danish homeowners who now know that new and more legitimate property assessments will mean significantly higher assessments in some areas, and the same homeowners will in the meantime be left in uncertainty for a while yet, because the government was unable to create clarification and countries a political agreement in the autumn. Before the Prime Minister had to save the pieces of the bourgeois majority, one had to divide the negotiations into part on the property valuation system and another part on the housing tax • Although it is difficult to separate the discussion once one has begun to improve the property valuation system and it turns out that there is an extra two-digit billion in revenue on that basis, while there is actually a broad consensus that the purpose of the exercise is not to have more money in the Treasury from the country's homeowners. So we freaked out about that division back then. We want to arrive at a housing tax system where property assessments become as accurate as possible and are continuously improved, where the taxation of owner-occupied dwellings is a tax source at the same time as today, where the system must also provide both security and predictability, and where the system is progressive and contributes to the social fernis in Denmark, which we believe should characterize our society. We have been saying for quite some time now that we would like to see a broad agreement on the housing tax, and one can safely say that the government is testing the patience of the Folketing. Despite statements that negotiations should continue immediately after the agreement on a new property assessment system, nothing has happened yet. And it is in this rather weird void that I have tried to describe here that we must be patient now, and that is the backdrop for dealing with the legislative proposal we have before us today. So the government managed to survive and for Lars Løkke Rasmussen to survive as prime minister and to get a finance agreement for 2017 in place, among other things. agreed to extend the freeze on the ground debt in 2017, and the bill we are debating today is therefore an implementation of that agreement. In concrete terms, therefore, the government proposes that the land debt should continue to be frozen and not increase for the buildings that have increased in value, but as a starting point become the root cause at the levels of 2015 and 2016. Unlike last year, the freeze must also apply to commercial properties, i.e. private landlords, cooperative housing associations and general housing companies. It is estimated to cost 835 million immediately. kr. in lost revenue in 2017, and after reflow and behavior it is 590 million. kr., which is going to this kind of tax relief in 2017. It is fortunately also the case with the bill that the money that should actually have been allocated to the municipalities is compensated for by the municipalities. To freeze the ground debt in this way is not a proposal that has grown in our gardens, and it is not a proposal that came from us, but it now stands to be adopted. We are therefore dealing with this in a context where the situation of housing taxation and the conditions of the country's homeowners is surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty, and the Social Democrats really do not want to contribute to that. However, we would like to have an agreement in place quickly, so we have decided not to vote against the agreement to freeze the ground blame for all homeowners in 2017, but at the third reading we will abstain from the legislative proposal. Then I cannot stress enough that once again we urge the government to relaunch the negotiations as soon as possible, because it is untenable with drip-drip measures in relation to housing taxation. It is a very important form of taxation, very important for many people, and having this uncertainty does not create peace for people; it does not create the security that we want and which is best for everyone. Finally, I should like to call on the government to resume negotiations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153502	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153507	Thank you, and first of all I would like to congratulate the Social Democratic Party for not voting against this quite excellent bill. However, the Social Democratic Party spent quite a long time on something other than the bill, namely the negotiations on the housing tax. I think that the Social Democracy itself has contributed to the party by not wanting to report anything on our housing issue until we had paused it. Only then did the Social Democrats report that they would make a fire tax on property, housing, over • as I remember it • 3.4 million. kr., after which the Social Democracy withdrew it ashore again. Would the Social Democrat rapporteur here be kind enough to explain what the background to this statement was and where the Social Democratic Party is actually in relation to this agenda at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153551	The questioner knows that well. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows the answer to that question. I know that people have been trying to make controversy and small videos for social media and such things and all sorts of scaremongering. We have not put forward any concrete proposals. What this must be about in a new agreement is to find a balance which both adjusts the percentages and the limits of when there is a progressiveness in taxation which makes it fair, and to find a model where there is a predictability in how taxation will develop. We're gonna do this together. So we are waiting for the government to come up with a new proposal and cannot really understand that we were told that we should continue immediately after the decision on the new property assessment system. Because it's not something you live up to now, but you let it hang. Get it back and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153652	Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Jesper Petersen to sound as though I am well aware of the motives of the Social Democrats and what the Social Democrats have in mind. I don't know, and that's why I'm asking. For what exactly is the Social Democrat thinking about that break line? Where's it gonna be? Is that 3.4 million? kr., we're talking about? And why did they turn this out? As I recall, it was in a large national newspaper, as the Social Democrat President was saying here, after which it was withdrawn six hours later or something like that. What's behind this? Well, why do you go out and report something like that and pull it back afterwards? And where is that line supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153727	Well, we haven't put forward any concrete proposals as to how this should be done. I tried before to describe what mechanisms are in play. But what we can see was in the proposal of the then government that housing taxation should be less progressive than in the previous system, and we are not in favour of that. Nor do we think it was a good idea, as the Conservative People's Party said in the negotiations back then, that you should not have a progression in it at all. We think that this is an excellent principle, just as it is for the taxation of income from work, that if you make a lot of money or have a property that has a very high value, you also pay a little more when we get over some limit. However, where it should lie and what the percentages should then be above and below such a crack, it seems most conducive that we discuss with each other in a negotiating room. We do not have any concrete proposals for this now, but we are waiting for us to be allowed to negotiate with the government on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153827	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153830	I would also like to sign that the Social Democratic Party has decided not to vote against this bill. After all, it is better than if you voted against it. But the argument seems a little strange, because the uncertainty about the future housing tax, as Mr. Jesper Petersen refers to, was there last year too, and I think I might be wrong that the Social Democratic Party voted against the corresponding bill in connection with last year's Finance Act, which also froze the ground blame. So what's changed? Because the uncertainty is the same now as it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124153924	I think there is quite a difference between when we discussed it a year ago. After all, there has since been a move by the government, the then Left Government, of which the Liberal Alliance is now a part, both to change the property assessment system and to change housing taxation. In the past, there was a freeze on property tax and there was a development in the land tax, and it was known that this was the case. In the meantime, therefore, a decision has been taken on a new property valuation system, and we know that if you do nothing else, it will mean a bill of two-digit billion dollars for the landowners in Denmark. After all, there is such a broad consensus that something else needs to be done, namely to change the housing tax, and we cannot really discuss this because the government is sitting on its hands. What may come out of the discussion here today is that we can get an answer as to when we should expect a proposal to be made. However, because so much uncertainty has been created for people out there, we will not help to increase it, and we will therefore abstain from voting on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154038	I think it's a bit sought. For last year it was also the case that we knew something was going to happen in this area, and that was a bottom-up task. I think that even sir... Jesper Petersen has used the expression that it was a basic task to solve this. So we knew something was going to happen in this area, and so did the Social Democrats. You knew that last year, and it was announced. So I think the explanation is a little sought. However, I would like to arrest some of the other things that Mr. Jesper Petersen said, namely, that he thinks it is fair that if you have a high income, you pay more in tax than if you have a low income. Everyone agrees. At least we are in the Liberal Alliance. But why do you have to pay more, not only in kroner and penny, which we all agree with but also in percent, especially when it comes to property, where you can have a property that has a high value, without necessarily having a particularly high income?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154136	Yes, you can do that with the example, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen describes in the end. It is often the case, however, that in some of the most expensive properties in Denmark there has also been significant price increases, and that thus you also have a large asset gain, and the property you have then represents an asset that is taxed, as if it were another form of asset. So we do that with housing in Denmark, and part of making sure that we have such a social fairness in our tax system is also to put more on what is above a certain value. And we think that's a principle that should continue. The discussion can then go on where it should be. Left has played out with something that was a deterioration in progression. We do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154227	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154235	This bill is, after all, the most recent agreement on the Finance Act for 2017. It is an agreement that was concluded between the former Left Government, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and my party, the Danish People's Party. That is why it comes as no surprise when I now reveal that we can, of course, support this bill. The draft law, in all its simplicity, aims to freeze the ground debt in 2017. The new thing in relation to the bill we had last year is that last time it was only for owner-occupied housing, which there was a lot of criticism and debate about that I thought it was quite reasonable that there was a good debate about • while it has now been extended to include commercial real estate, which I think is very positive. Among other things, it will: say that the general housing sector also gets the ground debt frozen. At the same time, I think it is very positive that it has been included in the legislative proposal for 2017. As I said, this is only true for 2017, but with the reservation that I have noted that the new government wants it to apply for several years. I also think it is worth saying, and it is a little for the Social Democrats who have said that they will abstain, and I can see the sense in that since this bill is only being dealt with after we have an agreement on a future housing tax, one can also wait to decide on what to vote. But I can see the sense of it, because we have suffered the same attitude in the Danish People's Party, namely that we think it is extremely important that in this particular area we try not to make a war out of it and try not to find the conflicts, because we need to find a good, broad agreement on this. I really believe that everyone in here and also in the public can see that it does not make sense to make a purely blue agreement, because there is perhaps an uncertainty that, after an election, there will be a purely red agreement. Exactly in this area, which means so much to the Danes' private economy, because it's the biggest investment you're going to make in your life, it means an incredible amount that there's a security and that you know what it's going to look like for many years to come, hopefully. That is why I do not really want to make all sorts of political statements about how we view taxation in this area either. We think it is important that we do not get buried in a lot of trenches, but that we try to get the negotiations we had going back in early November and that we get those negotiations resumed as soon as possible and try to find a good and broad solution here in the Folketing. However, as I said, we are part of the agreement behind this bill, which we think is greatly improved compared to what we had last year. That is why, of course, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154502	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154511	Thank you for the floor. This bill is part of the 2017 Finance Law Agreement between the then Left Government and the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, and it is about freezing the ground debt in 2017 for all properties. It is very important for us to create security for the homeowners, so that no one is taxed out of their own home. And while we are negotiating property valuations and housing tax, and until the new property valuation system comes into force, we want to maintain the freezing of land for property owners. This bill aims to extend the freezing of land by 1 year, so that the taxable land value for property should not increase from 2016 to 2017. This means that in 2017 the regulatory rate will be reduced from 5.5%. at 0 per cent. This means a great deal in certain residential areas, where an increase of 5.5 per cent can be expected every year. in tax payments. So we welcome the fact that we can help some homeowners. For the landowners, this will mean, in concrete terms, that they will have to pay the same amount of land in 2017, which they would have to pay in 2015 and 2016. Contrary to the freeze in 2016, this will apply in this case to traditional owner-occupied dwellings, but also commercial properties will be included. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, this means that tenants and co-owners are thus also subject to the freeze in this case. For reasons of time, municipalities cannot freeze the land debt when the first instalment of the land debt is due this year, but therefore the landowners will instead be compensated when the second instalment of the land debt has to be paid in August 2017, so that they will all pay the right debt. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154710	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur and turn to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. It's sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124154725	The unitary list is against freezing the ground debt for another year. It costs in the vicinity of 400 million. kr. Every year, and we think that money can be spent on something that we think is more important, for example. Improving welfare, better standards in kindergartens, more teachers in primary schools, more nurses in hospitals. In addition, the draft law also extends the scope of property which is to be frozen due to land, to now include commercial property. It is then a bill of an additional approx. 100 million kr. 0.5 billion kr. annual. I mean, basically, basically, it's a good treasure. It is not only the Enhedslisten who means it; so does the country's tax minister. We have an answer to question 39 from 23 October 2015. That is what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. In the answer to that question, the Minister of Taxation writes: "The debt is financially a good tax, as it does not weaken the incentive to save or work. This reflects the fact that the basic debt is to a large extent capitalised in basic prices and therefore does not affect the user costs of owning a house for new home owners. It is therefore a good tax, but it must still be frozen. That doesn't make sense. I have to say that I very much agree with the description of the ground blame given by the country's tax minister in the answer to that question. In terms of freezing, we feel this way in the Enhedslisten, and we have had this for many years • that we believe that the freezing is a good thing to use. We have it for pensioners today. We have suggested in the past that we should also look at the possibility of extending it to low-income groups. These are both people with low incomes, but they also apply to people on transfer incomes, for example. people on early retirement. Freezing has become part of the housing tax negotiations that are taking place where, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten is not at the table, although we would very much like to, because some of the elements that are actually being discussed, that is to say the technique of it, are something we have been advocating for many years. But freezing is part of it, and we are quite happy about that, because it is a thought that has also grown in the Garden of Enhedslisten. In fact, we were the first party to advocate this because many years ago we began to elucidate the possibility of freezing. The housing policy of the Enhedslisten is basically that we want to preserve the ground debt. We think. It is a good tax, a fair tax, also a morally fair tax, because it is basically about paying some money to use a piece of land, which in principle is the land of all Danes, because all citizens of this country live in Denmark. That's why it's fair to pay for it. In relation to the property value tax, our view is that it should in principle be converted entirely into an exit tax, so as to pay a tax on any profits you may have from the sale of the dwelling. Any step in this direction is, in fact, seen as a positive step in the right direction. The freezing thought, which lies in some of the things that the government has played out with both the former V government and now the VLAK government, is at least fleeing with the idea of an exit tax at all. A third element, which we consider important, is interest relief. We cannot understand the need for state subsidies for people to borrow money. Then, of course, you have to be aware that if you simply remove the interest allowance for everyone, there are some people who might get into problems with the existing housing they are in. However, it should be a central discussion for all parties in the Folketing, how we can reduce or remove the interest rate deduction on new loans, so that there is no interest rate deduction for them. At least that is something that should be done. It can also be said that there is no better time to do this than right now, when interest rates are actually historically low. So if we are to introduce this kind of legislation, it would also make a great deal of sense to do so right now. However, we do not think we should continue to give tax rebates to the homeowners through these patch solutions, which this bill is an expression of. We would like to see an exit tax done. Then we will ensure that people are not taxed out of the house while they live there, and we will ensure that there is some money in the treasury in a fair way. We will have housing prices normalized, and so we will have values and the prices of the land normalized. So, overall, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124155243	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124155255	Thank you. LA went to finance negotiations with a desire to lower registration fees, raise the coupling rate to free primary schools and freeze the ground debt. That is the last thing we are dealing with here today: a freeze on the ground. This means that 500 million good Danish kroner will remain in the taxpayers' pockets in 2018. 1.1 billion kr. remains in taxpayers' pockets in 2019, 1.6 billion. kr. in 2020, and 2,2 billion. kr. in 2021. That is why, of course, we think that this is a very, very good proposal and we are very pleased that it will be adopted. Then there will be some very important negotiations on the future housing tax, which I suppose will start later this year. We look forward to them. After all, we are in government, but it is probably no secret that what we want in the negotiations is for us to have as low a tax as possible on homeowners. We think this is the most fair tax, given that we in Denmark already have a high housing tax. But we look forward to it. It's gonna be one of the highlights of this political year. But until then, we welcome the fact that this bill is being passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124155504	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the alternative. It's sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124155513	In the alternative, we say no to this bill. We are very positive that the government has decided, with the support of most parties in the Folketing, to change the way we assess the housing in Denmark. That is so necessary. Overall, it is very difficult for us to say yes to this because the alternative stands by and says it loudly that we want to raise housing tax in Denmark. It's not to tease the homeowners myself, and I don't want to tease my neighbors either, but it's simply because I and the Alternative believe that when we have areas in Denmark where housing tax has stopped, whether it's the property value tax, or whether it's the land tax, or what parameters it's being measured, has resulted in, for example, that all villas, or also it was owner's homes, at Frederiksberg, and I think it was in 2011, they made the inventory, had a free value of just under 3 million. kr. The latest figures for which I have seen this year, five years later, were almost 5 million. kr. These are numbers that I have sucked to me from various sources, so it may be that there are flaws and shortcomings in them.You must actually correct me if that is the case. But it's very, very large sums of money. That's not exactly what we're talking about here, but it's just to tell why it's that we're so aware that we're gonna have to dare say, like the economic wise guys also dare say, that we need to puncture this bubble on the housing market. What you can then say in return to the alternative is that not everyone in Denmark, just because they own a home, is wealthy. It is very, very important to stress that we are aware of this. There are plenty of areas in Denmark where increased housing taxes will actually be a big problem because you will be able to sit so barely in the housing you are sitting in. We do not feel so sorry for those who have made great, at least in terms of free value. It may well be that the free value has not yet been realized and that it has not become liquid, but it does not make us so much that those who have large profits in their homes will feel that now the party is over. We'd rather you make money on something other than just sit and lock yourself in between your bricks. We would rather that it is at work, among other things, that you can earn your money. It is true, however, that in the case of those who will then have problems, it could be pensioners, it could be homeowners in peripheral areas where you did not have the same increase in value, there will be a need for you to keep your hand under those who are in trouble if you raise housing taxes. And that combination, I promise, is difficult because it requires that you turn on many different buttons. We are, of course, ready for this, because one of the main reasons why we want to raise the housing tax in general is that we want a more equal society where it is not just about sitting between its bricks. I saw a headline one day saying that's the best way to secure a seat on the high horse or something like that. Well, it's simply by owning the right housing and earning in the real estate market. It's wrong, and I actually think there's a lot of parties that agree with that. So how do we do that? There we think it should simply be now that we stand together to say "Although all of those out there and all of us in here who own a dwelling" think it's a little annoying that we've had it really, really good as homeowners, and that of course it shouldn't hurt those who haven't benefited from the winnings. So the solutions to hold hands under them could be precisely to freeze the tax; it could also be that it is the first thing you have to pay when selling your home. There are many different levels. We have presented a package called "Talk to a better society." It is a complete crown for crown-funded finance bill where we want to move in a different direction and where we also dare to raise housing taxes. We stand by that. But yes, there is a long way to go until we get 90 seats here in the Folketing to say openly and honestly: yes, housing taxes must rise. It will give a more equal Denmark and a more healthy Denmark, where there will be even greater motivation to go out taking the job on the labour market that it takes because you are not looking over at a home owner on the other side, who earns disproportionately many crowns just sitting in his house. I met with a good buddy here a few days ago, who was almost a little embarrassed about it, but I don't think he's going to stop accepting an increase in value, I don't know how much it was 1.5 million. kr. in a few years here in Copenhagen for an apartment which, when it was bought, looked furious animals in my perspective. Is that how we're gonna make our money in Denmark? We don't think it is. So yes, great respect for the fact that we are getting a new assessment system here in Denmark and that the government is taking the lead. We support this, in other words in relation to the technical aspects, but we cannot agree to freezing any taxes unless there is a clear social and geographical profile that is not as crooked as it has been up to now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160023	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160033	In the Radical Left, we are also voting against this bill. This is the implementation of a financial agreement, cutting down on all youth education courses, forge schools, colleges, commercial schools; setting up an educational ceiling to directly prohibit the taking of additional training if you want to change the industry later in life; cutting down on foreign aid to prevent the flow of refugees and helping some of the people in need; and then creating a housing tax relief that benefits some of the most wealthy. We do not agree with that. We think this is a poor priority. Finally, should a reduction in the tax burden be made, we think it would be much better for Denmark and much more reasonable if a tax relief were to be made at work. The high taxes on labour mean that wages are relatively high in Denmark compared to other countries; this helps to make our companies find it difficult to create jobs in Denmark. Therefore, we can help to look at the tax at work, because we believe that Denmark and the Danes get much more out of it than if you lighten the property tax. We also think it would be more reasonable to be rewarded for going to work and creating value for people other than yourself, namely for society, than to have a tax relief for owning a dwelling in certain areas. That is why we are voting against the draft law and hope that, at some point, another majority will be able to give the money a different priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160211	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160217	In the SF, we cannot vote for this either. In September 2016, we came up with our own housing tax proposal, where we proposed to drop the freeze, normalize our housing taxes, introduce a capital gain tax on owner homes a la the Swedish model and then use the proceeds that come in to ease the tax at the bottom and provide a higher housing benefit to those who need it. For the figures we see in these years clearly show that what matters whether you come to the green branch of life economically in Denmark is whether you enter the housing market or not. And what matters is whether you enter the residential market in Frederiksberg or Gentofte, or whether you enter the residential market in Aabenraa or Brøndby. There is only four to five times as great a gain within the housing system in the freeze that has taken place north of Copenhagen than for example. in South Jutland. It is simply so unfair and random in it alone, and there are a lot of economists who also say that it makes no sense to pursue a tax policy in which it pays far more to sit on its face and stare at its bricks than to go out and work. There is no logic in it, it is distorting. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen loves to talk about distortion, and this is one of the most distorting things. There is no discussion of this at all. Then we can have political disagreements about how we should finance our welfare society, where the money should be taken and what it should be spent on. Well, I'm sure if you woke up Mr. Knox... Joachim B. Olsen at night, he would agree that although this money should not go to welfare, for example. I think our tax minister would say the same thing. Our society has developed in a much more unequal direction. Of course, this is both about reforms, but it is also very much about what is politically determined, namely that some people sit in some rentals and they do not get this fortune built up through a life, and then others buy houses, villas in neighborhoods where you get a free value of millions of kroner. So we don't support this. But I would like to pay a little tribute to the government. Although we think in all modesty that our proposal is more progressive and more solidarity than what the previous government was playing out with, this has been an area which has not been brave enough to look the landowners in the eye and say: we have to change our tax system, but we would like to give you some tax rebates elsewhere, so that, for example, we can do something about it. lowers the treasure at the bottom. The government has been brave enough for that, and I'd like to sign for that. If the SF were to be invited to negotiations on this at some point, surprisingly, then we would like to accept the invitation, because the most important thing for us is that we also jointly show that this is about ensuring a more reasonable taxation. Then you can always think on the right that the overall tax level should be lower, but this is the dumbest kind of, what should you say, the lack of taxation we have in this country at all, then you can also talk about a capital tax and everything else. But it's really good to poke a hole in the boil. I would like to commend the government for that. For 14 years we have had a freeze and a tax ceiling that has been devastating to our economy in many ways. It was also one of the criticisms of the financial crisis, that is, that our housing tax system in Denmark had exacerbated the crisis that would have come no matter what, and which also came from outside and affected us. But we were in such a much more extremely vulnerable position because of the home bubble we helped create with our own policy. So we think it is the wrong way to go in the concrete proposal. We do not support it, but, of course, we support the idea that we should have a normalisation of our housing taxes, and then we can also discuss what that revenue should go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160727	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124160734	Thank you. After all, this is an excellent proposal that we are discussing today, and it is not least because of the thousands of Danish families who are in pain in their homes because of concerns about rising housing prices. In the then VK government, we had the property value tax frozen, but unfortunately we did not solve the problem of the root cause, so it has been allowed to increase significantly over a number of years. This has meant that many ordinary families experience that property taxes represent a very important part of their expenses, while at the same time they are already affected by a lot of other taxes, income tax and various excise duties, etc. So many sit with their children at home wondering if they can stay in that house in the area where the children go to school and where they intend to stay for many years. And then there's the other part. It concerns those who have deliberately chosen to say that they will stay and eat the costs that are in the process of staying. Those who stay until they can't live any longer, that is to say pensioners who, after a full working life where they have worn and dragged, have been looking forward to staying in their own homes that they have bought and paid for. I've been out visiting a family of this kind myself. They had bought and paid their house and had now retired, but even if they had paid the house out, they knew that they could not stay. The reason was housing taxes. It was a good house, it was well maintained, and there was a fine garden that the couple cared a lot about, but in addition it was a quite ordinary house. It was an ordinary pensioner who knew that there was an end date when they had to leave their homes because of housing taxes. And you can't live on bricks. In the Conservative People's Party we focus on this problem because it affects ordinary, hard-working Danes, but also because we think there is something fundamentally wrong in the way we have arranged our housing tax system. We think it is wrong to tax citizens on unrealised and fictitious gains. And then you should remember that the house is bought and paid for it is pure double taxation when homeowners have to pay taxes just to live in their own homes. That is why we want to put an end to the way in which we tax property owners. We have a long-term vision of doing away with current housing taxes. This will provide security for the country's many homeowners and transparency. In conclusion, I would just like to say that we are, of course, very satisfied with the result we have achieved. It will provide security for the homeowners, so that it will be a big yes from here to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161028	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161036	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the positive response to the bill. This is a proposal which, to a certain extent, corresponds to the draft law on freezing the ground debt that we tabled at about the same time last year; so there is a tiny bit of déjà vu about it here today and yet not. Firstly, the proposal we are debating today includes all buildings, i.e. buildings. commercial properties, etc., and it will include residential properties owned by cooperative housing associations, private landlords and general housing companies. They will also be subject to freezing in 2017, which was one of the criticisms made last year. All property owners who in 2017 pay land tax due on the base tax ceiling, and who would otherwise have seen an increase in their basic debt payment compared to last year, i.e. 2016, will have to pay as a rule the same in kroner and penny as in 2016. And for owner-occupied dwellings, where the land debt has also been frozen in 2016, this is the same as in 2015 and in 2016 the same as in 2015. Secondly, since we debated the freezing bill last year, we have moved substantially closer to two crucial milestones. In relation to housing taxation, the government has seen two milestones: new property assessments and an agreement on security of housing taxation. I have already signed several times, including in this Chamber, for the broad circle of parties involved in the conciliation on the new property assessment system, but I would like to repeat the praise again today. This is an incredibly important and unfortunately underestimated step we have taken in public with the agreement on a new and more correct property assessment system. The next step is to find a long-lasting model of housing taxation, a model that ensures the security of the homeowners and also ensures that total housing taxes do not increase at the transition to the new valuations. I look forward to those negotiations, and I hope and believe that it is possible to get a good agreement in place that ensures security for the housing owners' economy. I also take down the remarks made by the various parties here today that there is no interest in such policy; that is something that might be feared. But at least we have the basic view of the government that security about the economy of homeowners is too important for it to be such a matter where politics suddenly goes into it. There we have to keep our eyes on the ball and what it is all about: ensuring security about the housing owners' economy and ensuring that if you have bought a house, you can also continue to live in it without having to leave house and home due to housing taxes. Pending the entry into force of a new housing tax system, the government will maintain the freezing of the property value tax and will continue to freeze the tax base for the land-use tax, as is also described in the new government base. Yes, there is such a criticism that some may want to raise, namely, that the freeze will not be of equal importance to all homeowners, and it must be acknowledged that it does not want it. It will now be the case that the freeze will be of the greatest importance to the homeowners who are facing the biggest land tax increases in 2017 but it is natural for the moment that the land tax increases more for certain properties than for others. At some properties you reach the ceiling, and at other properties you don't reach the ceiling. And the larger the base, the rise base, is the starting point for the percentage increase, the more you save in crowns and ears when the land is frozen. And therefore there will be differences in the increases from area to area. Of course, the homeowners who today pay the highest debt are also the homeowners who make the most of the freeze in dollars and cents. However, this does not change the fact that all homeowners who would have experienced an increase in the basic debt payment in 2017 will receive a helping hand, so that they are not hit by the basic debt increases. With the words and with the reception that has been given here in the Chamber today, I look forward to a constructive committee procedure. But if there are any questions, of course I should like to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161519	Mr President, there is a brief comment for the time being. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161524	I just want to ask when the government is putting forward a new proposal so that negotiations can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161534	That's what the government does when the government's ready for it. Of course, we need to observe what is in the government base, and I think it will be written at the beginning of 2017. So that time is approaching, at least, but the government needs to be ready before it can be presented. But, of course, we stand by what is in the government base. When exactly it will be, I'm afraid I can't reveal it here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161600	I think it is a pity that I have spoken a great deal from the platform, because there is a need to clarify those things. I also think that we had made a great deal of progress in the negotiations that were taking place, and the message we received at the time in November was that, almost immediately after the agreement on the property valuation system, we could continue with the housing tax part. This is not really happening, and the government is not really ready yet, so my question should then be: have there been any technical developments that make it impossible to be ready yet, or is it a political clarification that is now lacking in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161640	I do not know what the weighting is between the two things, but I think it is natural that a government that now consists of three parties instead of one party has the opportunity to find out what the negotiating position is when you enter into the negotiations. I fully agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen in that the negotiations were in a good condition, and in that light it is of course a pity, but there was also a reason why we did not reach the end of the whole thing, and it was that there were a number of parties who said: Uh to the matter of housing taxation. Then we chose to divide things up. So once the government has settled on both technical and political issues, we will call for negotiations and we will, of course, respect what is in the government base on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161725	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170124161742	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 25 January 2017 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
